-- 
Legal & General CEO Tim Breedon to Retire at End of 2012

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T09:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/legal-general-chief-executive-tim-breedon-to-retire-end-2012.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
biggest investor in the U.K. stock market, said Chief Executive
Officer Tim Breedon plans to retire at the end of 2012 after
seven years in the job.  The British insurer’s board will “in due course” start a
process to find a successor to Breedon, who was appointed CEO in
January 2006 and joined Legal & General in 1987, the London-
based company said today in a statement.  Finance Director Nigel Wilson, who joined the firm in
September 2009, is “likely to be in pole position” to replace
Breedon, according to Eamonn Flanagan, a Liverpool-based analyst
at Shore Capital Group Ltd., who has a “buy” rating on the
stock.  Breedon, 53, steered the company through the financial
crisis by booking extra capital reserves and cutting the
insurer’s dividend as the stock dropped to 23 pence a share in
March 2009. The firm, with 362 billion pounds ($560 billion) of
assets, has since quadrupled its value as it unveiled a strategy
to generate more cash for shareholders by writing less risky
policies that generated profits more quickly.  “With the company in excellent shape, I feel that next
year will be the right time to retire,” Breedon said in the
statement. “By giving notice of this now, the board will have
ample time to plan and ensure an orderly succession.”  Legal & General fell 3.2 percent today to 92.6 pence a
share, giving the company a market value of 5.4 billion pounds.  Cash Flow   The shares have fallen 26 percent since Breedon took charge
as CEO, while U.K. rivals Aviva Plc and Old Mutual Plc have
fallen 60 percent and 35 percent respectively in the period.
Prudential Plc, the biggest British insurer, has climbed 2
percent.  Today’s announcement comes 18 months after John Stewart,
former CEO of National Australia Bank Ltd., was appointed
chairman. Stewart said he’s looking forward to the “next
phase,” in the statement.  Wilson, 54, joined the insurer from publisher  United
Business Media Ltd. (UBM)  and changed the company’s reporting
procedures to focus more on cash flow, making the firm easier to
understand for investors who don’t specialize in insurance. He
has a doctorate from Massachusetts Institute Of Technology.  Legal & General has a history of promoting CEOs from
within. Breedon became CEO after 20 years with the firm and
previously led its investment management division. David Prosser, his predecessor, spent 18 years at the company.  Breedon retires on the eve of a regulatory overhaul.
Solvency II, to be implemented in 2013, is the pan-European set
of rules designed to strengthen insurers’ reserves to protect
policyholders against a decline in investment markets. Breedon
in October last year said that insurers shouldn’t be punished by
regulators for the risks and “deeply flawed compensation
systems” of banks.  Breedon’s compensation in 2010 was 1.86 million pounds,
including a 785,000-pound salary, according to the company’s
 annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  