-- 
El-Erian Says World Is on Eve of Next Financial Crisis Over Sovereign Debt

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-22T16:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/el-erian-says-world-is-on-eve-of-next-financial-crisis-over-sovereign-debt.html
The world is on the eve of the next
financial crisis, with sovereign debt its epicenter, said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the biggest bond fund.  The  European Central Bank  hasn’t put in place a “circuit
breaker” to contain the region’s debt crisis, El-Erian, who is
also Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, said at an event in
Washington today.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
are meeting in Washington this weekend as markets tumble on
concern the world economy is slowing and Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis threatens to spread beyond Greece. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index sank 4.6 percent to 214.89 at the 4:30 p.m. close in
London, the lowest since July 2009.  “There has been a significant increase in the financial
requirements of international intervention,” El-Erian said.
“You need a lot more firepower in order to be a circuit
breaker. Look at how much the ECB has put in and ask yourself
the question: has it created a circuit breaker? The answer is
no, even though the amounts involved have been massive.”  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said the G-20
nations will coordinate a response to the European sovereign
debt crisis. Baroin, speaking to reporters today in Washington,
said European nations must approve a July 21 accord on further
financial aid to Greece.  Greek Budget Cuts  The Greek government said today it will accelerate budget
cuts to keep emergency loans flowing, extending austerity
measures that have deepened a recession and failed to ease
doubts that it can avoid default. The latest round of deficit
fighting was demanded by international lenders to ensure Greece
reaches targets in a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout and
receive a payment due next month.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said the global
economy is “in a danger zone,” and his counterpart at the
 International Monetary Fund ,  Christine Lagarde , said “downside
risks” are high.  “We’re in it together and we will be able to solve it
together,” Lagarde, a former French finance minister, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television.  U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe will act “with more force” to
combat its debt crisis.  In the U.S., stocks tumbled on concern central banks are
running out of tools to prevent another recession and after the
 Federal Reserve  said yesterday it saw “significant downside
risks” to the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9
percent to 1,133.09 at 12:51 p.m. on New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Washington  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  