-- 
Telenor Must Be Prepared for Turmoil, VimpelCom Case, CEO Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-09-22T14:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/telenor-must-be-prepared-for-turmoil-vimpelcom-case-ceo-says.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the largest Nordic
telephone company, needs to be flexible in current arbitration
to defend its shareholding in  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and must be
prepared for market turmoil, said its chief executive officer.  “Telenor stands pretty strong and we’ve revised the
dividend policy as a consequence,” CEO Jon Fredrik Baksaas said
in an interview today at company headquarters in Fornebu,
 Norway . “We need to be prepared for two elements: the financial
macroeconomic environment ” and maintaining the “necessary
flexibility” concerning arbitration about Russian mobile
operator VimpelCom.  Telenor will be “selective” in making acquisitions,
according to a presentation at its capital market day. The
company will distribute 50 percent to 80 percent of net income
as dividends, compared with a previous range of 40 percent to 60
percent, and will increase its debt ratio to two times earnings.  “We would be open to things that would be value-creative,
small in-country consolidations maybe, as well as regional
aspects in general either in Europe or  Asia ,” the CEO said,
when asked about Telenor’s approach to mergers and acquisitions.  India Plans  VimpelCom completed a merger with Wind Telecom SpA in
April, over Telenor’s objections, in a deal that included new
stock. The conflict led to arbitration proceedings as Telenor
sought to maintain the proportion of its VimpelCom stake.  Baksaas said Telenor is “pleased” with statements from
VimpelCom’s management and their focus on “operational
improvements.” Telenor expects “value creation” from
VimpelCom and predicts the arbitration will conclude toward the
end of the first half of 2012.  The executive said that there’s probably still room for
some consolidation in the Nordic markets and that companies in
India should combine in the long term.  “As long as the Indian regulatory framework for
consolidation is standing unclear you won’t see it,” Baksaas
said.  Telenor wants “deeper and clearer” statements from the
Indian government on consolidation, spectrum policy and rural
rollout obligations. Telenor has reached a threshold where it’s
eligible to increase its spectrum to 6.2 megahertz and has
applied for that, Baksaas said.  Telenor’s Indian venture, Uninor, sees future growth amid
50 percent penetration in mobile-phone use in the country, said
Sigve Brekke, the unit’s head. The market is “very
competitive,” he said.  Telenor is raising 82 billion rupees ($1.65 billion) in
 India  “to finance the rest of the plan and take care of some of
the short-term borrowing that we currently have,” Brekke said
in a separate interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  