-- 
Telenor Increases Dividend Payout After Raising Net Debt Limits

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-22T10:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/telenor-increases-dividend-payout-after-raising-net-debt-limits.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the largest telephone
company in the Nordic region, plans to raise the proportion of
its dividend payout while increasing its net debt limits.  Telenor will distribute between 50 percent and 80 percent
of net income, compared with a previous range of 40 percent to
60 percent, Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas said at
an investor meeting at the company’s headquarters in Fornebu,
 Norway . The company will also increase its debt ratio to two
times earnings.  Telenor needs to squeeze costs out of operations in mature
and emerging economies to revive returns to shareholders. It
skipped a dividend for 2009 to fund the rollout of service in
India, where the company is building a presence in a market with
more than a dozen rivals.  “The increase in the dividend is a step in the right
direction,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said by e-mail today. “But the increase in net
debt targets -- in the absence of a major share buyback program
or some other return to shareholders -- has to increase the risk
of an acquisition and we do not think that’s a good thing.”  Telenor will be “disciplined” and “selective” in its
approach to mergers and acquisitions, it said today in a
presentation.  Indian Competitors  The company signed a network-sharing agreement in  Denmark 
in June with rival TeliaSonera AB as the country’s market
consolidated with TDC A/S acquiring Onfone. Telenor is also
sharing a new 4G-technology mobile network in  Sweden  with Tele2
AB. Tele2 agreed in July to buy a 67 percent stake in Network
Norway, helping consolidate Telenor’s home market.  Telenor entered India in December 2009 after setting up
successful units in Pakistan and  Bangladesh . Shareholders have
complained that the entry was too late as rivals such as Bharti
Airtel Ltd. pulled down prices to squeeze out new entrants such
as Telenor. Uninor’s cumulative operating losses totalled 8.5
billion kroner ($1.5 billion) as of June 30.  Telenor reiterated Uninor’s financial targets today. It
said “peak funding” will be within 155 billion rupees ($3.2
billion) and the unit will achieve break-even in operating cash
flow about five years after starting operations. Uninor will
break even at the level of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization about three years after the
brand’s introduction, Telenor said.  Uninor served 21.4 million customers with an average
revenue per user of 12 kroner at the end of the second quarter.
 India ’s wireless industry had  852 million  subscribers in June,
according to country’s telecommunications regulator, compared
with 562 million  when Uninor opened  for business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  