-- 
Emerging Currencies to Decline in Lehman ‘Deja Vu,’ Nordea Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-09-22T14:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/emerging-currencies-to-decline-in-lehman-deja-vu-nordea-says.html
The sell-off in emerging-market
currencies is reminiscent of declines in the seven- to eight-
month period around Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
2008 and probably has further to run, Nordea Bank AB said.  Currencies such as the Brazilian real, the South African
rand, the Polish zloty and the Hungarian forint have been caught
up in a “bloodbath,” Aurelija Augulyte and  Elisabeth Andreew ,
analysts at Nordea in Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. Since July, developing nations’ currencies have lost 36
percent of the amount they fell between July 2008 and March
2009, they said.  “In 2008-2009, it took seven-eight months for emerging-
market currencies to depreciate,” Augulyte and Andreew wrote.
“This time things seem to develop somewhat faster. If the
Lehman crisis becomes a psychological benchmark for how much
emerging-markets currencies will weaken further, there is
clearly room for further weakness in the months to come.”  Emerging markets slumped during the global credit crunch
that followed Lehman’s collapse as investment and export demand
dried up and investors around the globe sold riskier assets. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth
on Sept. 20 and predicted “severe” repercussions if  Europe ’s
debt crisis remains unresolved and U.S. policy makers deadlock
over a fiscal plan. The Federal Reserve yesterday warned of
“significant downside risks” in the  U.S. economy .  The rand has been the worst performer this quarter among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, sliding 18.4
percent, followed by the zloty, which dropped 17.8 percent. The
real has lost 17.5 percent and the forint has declined 15.6
percent.  Investors should “keep a low risk profile” and take bets
through options with set limits to losses, Augulyte and Andreew
wrote. Once markets have stabilized, emerging countries will
continue to “gain credibility” over developed nations and
investors will be able to benefit from shrinking risk premiums
relative to major market assets, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  