-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Tumble Most Since 2008 on Growth Concern

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f ,   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-22T21:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/emerging-market-stocks-heading-for-15-month-low-following-fed-risk-warning.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled,
sending the benchmark index to the biggest drop in three years,
on concern central banks may run out of ways to avoid another
recession. Commodity producers led the retreat.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 6.3 percent to 880.64
at 5:13 p.m. New York time, the steepest decline since November
2008. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  slumped 8.9 percent,
the most among world bourses and its largest slide since October
2008. Russia’s Micex index and Poland’s WIG20 Index sank more
than 7 percent, while the gauges in Brazil and  Mexico  lost 4.8
percent. Benchmark indexes fell more than 4 percent in  India ,
 Hungary , and  Turkey .  Copper fell to a one-year low in New York and oil dropped
to a six-week low after the U.S. Federal Reserve said the
world’s biggest economy faces “significant downside risks.”
Twenty-one out of the major 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg have weakened against the dollar this year
as developing nations’ policy makers shifted to cut rates in
order to safeguard their economies against a global slowdown.  “We expect worsening financial conditions and continued
volatility,” Larry Kantor, the head of research at  Barclays
Capital  in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed report today. “We
advise a neutral position toward risky assets.”  Vale, Cemex  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, declined
4.3 percent in Sao Paulo and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, slid 5.3 percent. Homebuilder
Brookfield Incorporacoes SA plummeted 7.7 percent, leading
declines for companies that depend on credit growth after a
report showing lower-than-forecast Brazilian unemployment
spurred traders to pare bets on rate cuts.  Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas,
plunged 13 percent in Mexico City, the most among all 35
decliners in the IPC Index.  Indonesia’s PT Medco Energi International, the nation’s
biggest oil company, retreated 12 percent. OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s
biggest oil producer, sank 7.9 percent, while OAO Magnitogorsk
Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s steelmaker,
lost 12 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries surged 31 basis points, or 0.31
percentage point, to 448, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The MSCI emerging-market index has dropped 27 percent from
this year’s high on May 2 amid worse-than-estimated U.S.
economic data, the downgrade of America’s top debt rating and
Europe’s deteriorating debt crisis.  The world is on the eve of the next financial crisis with
sovereign debt its epicenter, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said.  The  European Central Bank  hasn’t put in place a “circuit
breaker” to contain the region’s debt crisis, El-Erian said at
an event in Washington today. Responses of policy makers to the
crisis have not been structural, he said, adding that the U.S.
and  Europe  have not addressed impediments to economic growth.  The Fed said yesterday it will replace $400 billion of
short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries to spur growth in
the  U.S. economy  as the recovery falters two years after the
biggest slump since the Great Depression. Data today showed
American jobless claims topped forecasts and  China ’s
manufacturing may shrink for a third month in September.  ‘Global Crisis’  “Markets are currently in a vicious mode and unless we see
a game-changing event that seems set to continue,” Tim Ash,
chief emerging-markets economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed report. “Policy makers are
now really scraping the barrel in terms of policy responses to
the global crisis, and the barrel is looking pretty bare.”  Chile’s peso slumped 4 percent to a 14-month low against
the dollar as copper, which makes up more than half the
country’s exports, plunged. The Korean won slid 2.6 percent
versus the dollar and the  Indian rupee  fell 2.5 percent, the
most since February 1996.  Brazil ’s real declined for a second day, depreciating 1.6
percent versus the greenback to the weakest level in two years.
The central bank acted in the currency futures market for the
first time in two years to arrest a plunge in the currency.  Peso, Rand  The  Mexican peso  has slid for 11 sessions in a row,
weakening 2.8 percent against the dollar to the lowest since
March 2009. Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to the
U.S.  The South African rand declined for the seventh day,
falling 2.6 percent to the lowest level since May 2009, after
the central bank signaled it may cut  interest rates  to boost the
economy.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.8 percent after a
preliminary Chinese manufacturing index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 49.4 percent,
indicating a contraction. China’s stocks may fall in the fourth
quarter as economic and corporate earnings growth slow and
liquidity remains tight, according to UBS AG.  Indonesia ’s PT Astra International, the nation’s biggest
automotive retailer and its largest company by market value,
slumped 9.5 percent.  “Foreign investors are dumping local assets,” said Akbar Syarief, who helps manage $98 million in assets at PT MNC Asset
Management in Jakarta. “They’re seeking the safety of U.S.
Treasuries while waiting out the developments in the U.S. and in
Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  