-- 
England Recalls Tindall; McCaw, Carter Return for N.Z.: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-22T08:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/england-recalls-tindall-mccaw-carter-return-rugby-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in New Zealand.  Tindall Recall  England  recalled Mike Tindall and Jonny Wilkinson for the
Pool B match against Romania in two days.  Tindall, who was rested for the win against Georgia on
Sept. 18, was chosen at inside center in one of seven changes to
the starting lineup. Mark Cueto will make his first appearance
of the World Cup on the wing after recovering from a back
injury, while 2003 World Cup-winning fly-half Wilkinson takes
over from Toby Flood.  Hooker Steve Thompson, loosehead prop Alex Corbisiero,
second-rower Louis Deacon and flanker  Tom Croft  all come into
the starting lineup.  James Haskell  continues at No. 8 in the
injury enforced absence of Nick Easter.  McCaw, Carter Return  New Zealand  made four changes to its starting lineup for
the Pool A match against  France  in two days.  Captain Richie McCaw was recalled for his 100th Test match
after missing last week’s 83-7 win over  Japan  because of a calf
strain. With Kieran Read still injured, Adam Thomson moves to
No. 8 with McCaw replacing him at openside flanker.  Dan Carter recovered from a back strain to take his place
at fly-half, while Piri Weepu was chosen as the All Blacks’
third different starting scrum-half at the tournament. Selectors
picked Israel Dagg to replace Isaia Toeava at full-back over
Mils Muliaina even though the veteran of 98 Tests is fit.  “It was a selection based on form at this particular
moment in time,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said in a news
conference. “It’s difficult for Mils, he’s been a high quality
player for a long time for the All Blacks.”  Italy  Withdrawal  Tommaso D’Apice withdrew from Italy’s squad after a scan
today showed the hooker damaged left knee ligaments playing
against Russia two days ago and would need three weeks’ rest.  “I am extremely sad to be leaving the  World Cup ,” D’Apice
said in comments distributed by tournament organizers.  “We
agreed that the right thing was for me to return to Italy.”  Italy must wait for tournament doctors to verify his injury
before they can replace him. Italy faces the U.S. on Sept. 27
before closing pool play against Ireland Oct. 2  Scottish Shuffle  Scotland coach Andy Robinson left squad skipper Alastair
Kellock out of his team for the Pool B match against  Argentina 
on Sept. 25. Scrum-half Rory Lawson retained the captaincy as
Robinson made five changes to the team that beat Georgia 15-6.  Geoff Cross replaces Euan Murray at prop, second row Richie
Gray comes in for Nathan Hines and John Barclay replaces Ross
Rennie at openside flanker. In the backs, Dan Parks makes way
for Ruaridh Jackson at fly-half and full-back Chris Paterson
takes over from Rory Lamont.  “We looked at picking a team to beat Argentina. That was
the sole focus,” Robinson said in comments distributed by
tournament organizers. “This is phase two of our operation in
this World Cup and we’ve got two games to win.”  A victory in Wellington would mark the first time since the
1989-90 Grand Slam-winning season that Scotland won six straight
matches.  Romania  Record  Four players from the Romania team that lost 43-8 to
Argentina will start against England in Dunedin.  The 11 changes to the  starting lineup  are a record for
Romania at a World Cup, beating the previous mark of eight.  Second-rower Cristian Petre is only player to retain his
position, while Ovidiu Tonita, Iulian Dumitras and Ionel Cazan
were shifted to other roles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  