-- 
Tennessee Has Highest State, Local Sales Taxes

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T16:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/tennessee-has-highest-state-and-local-sales-taxes-study-finds.html
Local and state sales taxes “add
significantly” to the amount consumers pay for everyday goods,
with Tuba City,  Arizona , charging 13.725 percent, the most of
any municipality, the  Tax Foundation  reported.  Tennessee  has the highest combined sales-tax rate at 9.43
percent, the foundation  reported  today. Arizona followed with
9.12 percent; Louisiana, 8.84 percent;  Washington , 8.79 percent;
and  Oklahoma , 8.66 percent. The foundation calculated the
liabilities by averaging all local sales taxes in each state,
giving added weight by population, and combining the average
with the statewide rate.  The five with the lowest average combined rates are  Hawaii ,
4.35 percent;  Maine , 5 percent;  Virginia , 5 percent;  Wyoming ,
5.34 percent; and  Wisconsin , 5.43 percent. Of the most populous
states,  California  ranked 12th, with a combined average levy of
8.13 percent;  Texas , 11th, at 8.14 percent; and  New York ,
eighth, with a combined 8.48 percent, the foundation reported.  “The proliferation of local jurisdictions levying their
own sales taxes can have an enormous impact on a state’s overall
tax structure,” Scott Drenkard, an analyst for the nonprofit
foundation, said in a statement. “In some states, local rates
can more than double the average  sales tax  paid by consumers.”  Tuba City  The Washington-based research foundation, created in 1937
out of concern about the effect government spending and
expansion might have on businesses, has received  financial
support  from organizations such as the Business Roundtable and
corporations including General Electric Co., PepsiCo Inc.,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., according to its
 website .  The Tuba City tax rate is so high because it combines a 6.6
percent state sales tax with a 1.125 percent county levy and an
additional 6 percent charge on all purchases to benefit the
Navajo tribal government, Drenkard wrote.  States with the lowest average local rates include
 Mississippi ,  Idaho ,  New Jersey ,  Vermont  and  Minnesota , the
foundation reported. The five states with the highest average
rates are  Louisiana ,  Alabama ,  Colorado , New York and Oklahoma,
according to the study.  Delaware ,  Montana , New Hampshire and  Oregon  are the states
with no state or local sales tax, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York nat 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  