-- 
EPA’s Jackson Says She Respects Obama’s Decision on Ozone

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-22T20:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/epa-s-jackson-says-she-respects-obama-s-decision-on-ozone-1-.html
Lisa Jackson, administrator of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said she respects
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to quash proposed new smog
limits and said the agency will enforce a 2008 rule.  The EPA said today that states and counties must comply
with the ozone standard of 75 parts per billion set by President
 George W. Bush ’s administration, which had been on hold while
Obama’s EPA moved to tighten the requirements.  Jackson told a subcommittee of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee today that it’s “no secret” the EPA
 recommended  a stricter cap for ozone, a major component of smog.
A scientific advisory panel had said a limit of 60 to 70 parts
per billion was necessary to protect public health.  Before Obama’s Sept. 2 decision, Jackson had called the
Bush-era standard “not legally defensible.” She said today
that she proposed cutting the level to 70 parts per billion.  EPA is currently enforcing a 1997 ozone standard of 84
parts per billion. States and counties violating that rule must
develop plans to meet the national standard.  Jackson also criticized an amendment set for a vote in the
full House today that makes it harder for the EPA to issue new
regulations for mercury and other emissions from  power plants .  Aspects of the amendment, proposed by Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican, “would weaken and possibly
destroy our ability to ever control those toxic pollutants,”
Jackson said.  Republicans said that the EPA has issued a series of rules
that will undermine the economy.  ‘Oppressive Regulations’  “Time and time again over the last three years we have
seen the EPA issue oppressive new regulations that have
dramatically raised the costs of doing business in the  United
States ,” Representative  Cliff Stearns , the chairman of the
oversight subcommittee and a Florida Republican, said at the
hearing. “They have driven numerous American companies out of
business altogether.”  On one specific issue raised by lawmakers, Jackson said
that the EPA isn’t to blame for the woes of Dallas-based Energy
Future Holdings Corp. The company’s Luminant unit asked the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  on Sept. 12 to
delay a rule capping emissions from power plants that cause
pollution in other states.  “Luminant has financial woes that date back far beyond the
EPA action” on cross-state pollution, Jackson said today.  In a memo today, the agency said 52 areas nationwide don’t
meet the Bush-era standard.  About half of those will see ozone drop to acceptable
levels because of additional proposals, such as limits on power-
plant pollution, and new fuel standards for vehicles, EPA
Assistant Administrator Gina McCarthy wrote in her letter to
regional officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  