-- 
Erdogan Threatens to Blacklist Companies Working With Cyprus on Oil, Gas

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-22T07:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/erdogan-threatens-to-blacklist-companies-working-with-cyprus-on-oil-gas.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
threatened to blacklist international oil and gas firms working
with Cyprus on Mediterranean exploration, and stop them from
participating in energy projects in Turkey.  Turkey’s Energy Ministry is drawing up sanctions on
companies that meet the criteria, Erdogan said in televised
comments from New York. The prime minister spoke yesterday after
signing a continental-shelf accord with northern Cypriot leader
Dervis Eroglu that allows Turkish Cypriots to define and drill
in waters surrounding the island.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , a U.S. company, started drilling Sept.
18 in Cyprus’s southern waters. Erdogan said Turkey’s agreement
with northern Cyprus counters the Greek Cypriot decision to
start exploration.  Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when Turkish troops
invaded it after a coup by Greeks to unite the island with
 Greece . Turkey keeps a military presence in the north and is the
only country to recognize a Turkish Cypriot state there, rather
than the internationally acknowledged Greek Cypriot government.  The Greek Foreign Ministry said the accord is against
international law, NTV television reported. Turkey, which unlike
Cyprus has neither signed nor ratified the United Nations
convention on the Law of the Sea, says Cyprus is “wrong” to
explore for hydrocarbons, and Erdogan said Turkey’s navy and air
force will monitor activities in the eastern Mediterranean.  The next step is to start exploring for oil and gas off the
coast of northern Cyprus, to be led by state oil firm Turkiye
Petrolleri AO, Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. from the U.S., Brazil’s
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  are among companies that have offered to work with
TPAO in Mediterranean drilling, Istanbul-based Sabah said
yesterday. If TPAO decides on a partnership, the foreign company
would meet all the drilling costs in exchange for a portion of
the oil, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  