-- 
Buffett Banks on Tesco Turnaround With U.K. Price Cuts: Retail

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-10-04T16:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/tesco-to-cut-price-of-3-000-essential-items-as-britons-struggle.html
Warren Buffett has 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) riding on  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  turning around its U.K.
business. He’s not alone in backing Britain’s biggest retailer.  While analysts expect Tesco to report the steepest decline
in domestic sales since at least 2005 tomorrow, they’re also the
most optimistic they’ve been in at least two years on the
company’s shares. Almost three-quarters say clients should buy
-- advice Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  already followed by
raising its stake to 3.64 percent.  After four years of market-share erosion in the U.K., Tesco
is fighting back. The retailer, which gets two-thirds of sales
from its home market, last month unveiled the Big Price Drop
campaign in a bid to win shoppers from rivals including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda amid stagnant economic growth. Chief
Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  also needs to eliminate U.S.
losses, while exploiting growth in  Asia  and eastern Europe.  “There are a lot of good things going on at Tesco and I
suspect that’s what Buffett has observed,” said Phil Doel,
whose funds at F&C Asset Management own 0.8 percent of Tesco.
Clarke, who succeeded  Terry Leahy  as CEO in March, “is
gradually stamping his authority on the business.”  Tesco rose 9.6 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 380.1 pence at the
4:35 p.m. close in  London , the biggest advance in the U.K.
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  The stock has risen 6.7 percent since
the retailer announced its price campaign on Sept. 22, cutting
this year’s drop to 11 percent and boosting its market value to
30.5 billion pounds. Berkshire Hathaway raised its stake from
3.21 percent, a person familiar with the matter said Sept. 26.  Price Cuts  Retail sales fell in August for the first time in three
months as U.K. inflation accelerated at twice the pace of wages,
eroding spending power. In response, Tesco shaved 500 million
pounds from the price of basic items such as milk and vegetables
in a campaign funded by ending double rewards on its loyalty
card and reducing costs in areas like supply-chain management.  “They don’t need to be the absolute cheapest on
everything, but the offering needs to be seen to be good value,
so this move is sensible,” Doel said.  Thirty of the 42 analysts monitored by Bloomberg, or 73
percent, have a “buy” recommendation on Tesco stock.  The consensus analyst recommendation on the shares is 4.27,
according to Bloomberg data, with each recommendation ranked on
a scale of 1 to 5. That’s the highest in at least two years and
ranks above domestic competitors  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  at 2.74 and
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc at 3.74. Of Tesco’s three
larger global rivals, Wal-Mart has a rating of 3.77,  Carrefour
SA (CA)  3.02 and Metro AG 4.02.  Market Share  Tesco’s share of U.K. grocery spending fell to 30.4 percent
in the 12 weeks through Sept. 4 from 30.8 percent a year
earlier, according to Kantar Worldpanel research, as discounters
Aldi and Lidl and the upmarket Waitrose chain gained ground.  The retailer will report first-half results tomorrow and
may say that sales at stores open at least a year fell 0.8
percent excluding gasoline and value-added tax, according to the
median of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be
Tesco’s weakest domestic performance since it started regularly
reporting revenue on that basis in 2005.  London-based Sainsbury may also say tomorrow that same-
store sales rose 2 percent in the second quarter on a basis that
includes VAT, according to the median of eight estimates.  Tesco sells more non-food merchandise such as televisions,
clothes and appliances than competitors, leaving it vulnerable
to reduced spending by consumers on non-discretionary items.  The retailer may report an increase in first-half earnings,
driven by gains in the emerging markets of eastern  Europe  and
Asia, as well as a reduced loss at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain,
analysts said. So-called trading profit probably rose 8 percent
to 1.83 billion pounds, even as sales growth slowed in countries
such as Ireland and  Poland , according to the median estimate of
18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Global Powerhouse’  “Tesco has achieved much in the last 15 years through
internationalization,” Shore Capital analyst Clive Black wrote
before the results. “The worth of this diversification to the
group’s investment case is never more apparent than now to our
minds, with the U.K. seemingly in the doldrums.”  Black estimates Tesco’s first-half trading profit will gain
13 percent in Europe and 12 percent in Asia, while predicting a
loss of 70 million pounds in the U.S., down from 95 million
pounds a year earlier. The retailer is opening more Fresh & Easy
stores in northern  California  and adding ready-made meals and
fresh bakery items as it aims to break even in the U.S. by 2013.  “Sages like  Warren Buffett  recognize that Tesco is a
global powerhouse, and not just dependent on the struggling U.K.
consumer,” said  Nick Bubb , an analyst at Arden Partners in
London with an “add” recommendation on the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 