-- 
Estonian Parliament Plans to Approve EFSF Bill on Sept. 29

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-22T14:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/estonian-parliament-plans-to-approve-efsf-bill-on-sept-29-2-.html
Estonia  plans to ratify the
European Financial Stability Facility on Sept. 29 after voting
to approve the bill in the first reading two days earlier, said
Sven Sester, head of the parliament’s finance committee.  The ruling coalition, which has a six-seat majority, and
the  Finance Ministry  say the EFSF bill doesn’t contradict
Estonian legislation as opposition Social Democrats contend,
Sester, a member of junior coalition partner Isamaa ja Res
Publica Liit, said today in a telephone interview from Tallinn.  Even so, the finance committee tomorrow will discuss a
draft bill to align the country’s budget law with the European
Union’s rescue fund and the parliament may vote on it on Sept.
27 together with the EFSF bill, Sester said. The EFSF bill
requires a simple majority in two readings to be passed, he
said.  The  Social Democrats  said yesterday amendments to the EFSF
can’t be passed without changes to the budget law, potentially
delaying planned ratification beyond next week. Approval is
facing delays in other eastern European countries, with
Slovakia’s Freedom and Solidarity, one of the nation’s ruling
parties, opposing a more powerful EFSF. Slovenia’s decision is
in question after Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s government lost a
confidence vote earlier this week.  Estonia’s Social Democrats control 19 seats in the 101-
member Riigikogu, while the ruling coalition of Prime Minister
 Andrus Ansip ’s Reform Party and Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit hold
56.  The opposition Center Party of Tallinn mayor and former
Prime Minister Edgar Savisaar, which commands 26 seats, will
oppose the EFSF bill as the guarantee of up to 1.995 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) exceeds Estonia’s financial resources, the
party said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This makes up a third of Estonia’s budget,” Center’s
lawmaker Juri Ratas said in the statement. “Even our pensions,
social and family support payments total 1.7 billion euros. We
are going to support countries with higher  living standards  than
ours with a guarantee that is clearly beyond our strength.”  The Social Democrats maintain their view and expect the
Finance Ministry to change its position on the need to fix the
budget law, Rannar Vassiljev, the vice chairman of the finance
committee, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  