-- 
ETFs Can’t Be Blamed for Market Correlation, Vanguard Says

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-22T19:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/etfs-can-t-be-blamed-for-high-market-correlation-vanguard-says.html
Exchange-traded funds are not the
main driver behind higher correlations in financial markets as
broad economic trends have spurred assets to move in tandem,
according to Vanguard Group Inc.’s Rick Genoni.  “ETFs have certainly grown in the marketplace, so it’s
easy to point the finger toward that product, but the truth is
there isn’t a single tipping point you can point to that says
ETFs have caused the markets to all move in a single direction
or drop,” Genoni, head of ETF product management at  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, the largest mutual-fund
manager, said at the Morningstar ETF Invest Conference in
 Chicago  today.  ETF usage by investors increased by the most since January
2008 last month, as concern the economy is slowing prompted a
shift toward bets on the direction of the entire market and
industries instead of individual companies. Average daily
trading volume for ETFs jumped 83 percent from July to 2.24
billion shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock prices for S&P 500 companies are moving in lockstep
more than any time since 1987, when the index posted a record
20percent slump on Oct. 19, according to data compiled by New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Pulling Money Out  Investors have pulled more money from U.S. equity funds
since the end of April than in the five months after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., adding to the $2.1
trillion rout in American stocks. About $75 billion was
withdrawn from funds that focus on shares during the past four
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group,
and EPFR Global, a research firm in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Outflows totaled $72.8 billion from October 2008 through
February 2009, following Lehman’s bankruptcy, the data show.
Bond funds added $42.3 billion from the end of April through
July and started posting weekly outflows last month, ICI said.  Fund flows in traditional mutual funds show a similar trend
by investors, according to  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s Anthony Rochte.  “We’ve had corporate-leverage issues and sovereign-debt
issues, we were teetering on the verge of a mortgage collapse
several years ago,” Rochte, a senior managing director at
Boston-based State Street’s money-management unit, the world’s
second-largest provider of ETFs, said in a panel at the
conference today. “It’s not surprising people are moving into a
couple trades. You really have to consider that before arriving
at the conclusion that ETFs are causing these asset classes to
correlate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  