-- 
EU Presses Greece on Asset Sales, Civil Service to Win Aid

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-22T15:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/eu-presses-greece-on-asset-sales-civil-service-to-win-aid.html
The European Commission pressed
 Greece  to spell out “key elements” of a new savings package
such as the timetable for state asset sales in order to qualify
for the next aid installment.  Stabilizing Greece’s situation is the “immediate
challenge” facing European officials who are grappling with the
debt crisis and trying to prevent contagion from any
“uncontrolled default,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a speech in  Washington  today.  “A condition for the new program is that Greece implements
all the corrective measures required, without any wavering,”
Rehn said. “In the past couple of weeks Greece has gone a long
way toward meeting these demands, but we are not quite there
yet.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told lawmakers
in  Athens  today that he preferred Greeks to suffer wage and
pension cuts rather than endure the complete economic collapse
of the country.  Greeks must take the decisions to meet fiscal targets,
Venizelos said, in comments broadcast live on state-run Vouli
TV. Referring to austerity measures announced yesterday, he said
that there was no time for delay and that what was being decided
now was the fate of the July 21 second financing package for
Greece, not simply the sixth tranche of loans from the first
bailout.  Task Force  Experts from the commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  won’t return to Athens until the
Greek government reveals more details of the program, the
European commission said. The goal is to resume the talks next
week.  “These elements were not finalized last week nor earlier
this week, so they are still on the table and need to be
finalized before the  task force  goes back,” commission
spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels today.  Greece last night promised cuts in pensions and public
workers’ wages in an effort to persuade European governments and
the IMF to release an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) loan
installment to save it from default next month.  Budget Cuts  Greece, the country at the origins of the European debt
crisis, is under pressure to clarify the schedule for selling
state assets and translate a pledged overhaul of the civil-
service system into savings.  The “troika” of commission, ECB and IMF experts will
“hopefully” return to Athens early next week to pave the way
for a decision on the next loan, Bailly said.  IMF and European officials are pressing Greece on budget
cuts now because they have maximum leverage,  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) 
analysts said in a research note.  Greece doesn’t have a bond maturing until December and
euro-area governments have yet to ratify a July 21 agreement
that includes a second bailout for the country and an overhaul
of the region’s rescue fund.  “This is possibly the last opportunity to press in the
direction of structural changes and spending cuts because the
full implementation of the July 21 decisions will decisively
increase the level of co-dependence between the euro area and
Greece,” said Piraeus Bank analysts, led by Ilias Lekkos, the
chief economist.  While there is always a rise in friction between Greece and
the so-called troika before the release of each aid installment,
“this time the differences are particularly pronounced as the
troika appears determined to impose significant spending cuts
and, as a result, a substantial reduction in the size of the
state,” Piraeus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  