-- 
EU Regulators Should Face Basel Capital-Rule Limits, Karas Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-22T10:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/eu-regulators-should-face-basel-capital-rule-limits-karas-says.html
The European Union should limit
national regulators’ ability to force banks to hold more capital
than required under global rules, the lawmaker in charge of
securing adoption of the standards in the European Parliament
said.  Curbs on supervisors powers are justified by the need to
ensure a level playing field in how the capital rules, known as
Basel III, are applied in  Europe , Othmar Karas, an Austrian
lawmaker responsible for drawing up the European Parliament’s
opinion on the measures, said in an interview.  “I am on the side of maximum harmonization” of the
requirements, Karas said. The limits on regulators’ powers are
the subject of a “political debate” both within the parliament
and between the EU’s governments, he said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed last
year to more than triple the core capital that banks must hold
to protect themselves from insolvency. Governments including the
U.K. and  Sweden  have opposed plans from the European Commission
that would limit national authorities’ power to demand even
higher capital increases.  The commission proposed that regulators requiring banks to
hold reserves beyond the minimum Basel levels would need to
carry out case-by-case examinations of each lender’s financial
situation and explain why the extra capital was needed.
Supervisors could toughen capital rules for all their banks at
once if a credit boom threatened their economy as a whole.  The European Parliament is scheduled to vote on the Basel
rules in June or July of next year, Karas said. This would allow
the measures to be phased in, as planned, from 2013 through
2019, he said. The parliament and a majority of governments in
the region must approve the plans before they can be
implemented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  