-- 
EU Transaction-Tax Plan Targets Derivatives, Excludes Auctions

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-22T17:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/eu-to-propose-low-rate-financial-transaction-tax-official-says.html
The European Commission will soon
propose a financial-transaction tax that encompasses all
derivatives trades, while exempting bond auctions and dealings
with central banks.  The tax rates will need to be high enough to apply
consistently across all 27 member states and low enough that
trades aren’t driven out of the region, according to a draft
commission document obtained by Bloomberg News. A European Union
official said today that the plan aims to target a broad range
of trades at low rates, so as not to encourage evasion.  “Tax policy in this area should, generally speaking, favor
socially and economically sustainable activities and penalize
economically and socially not-rewarding activities,” the draft
states. As an example of activities to discourage, the document
mentions “myopic profit maximization” related to high-
frequency trading or complex structured products.  The EU is split over the merits of a transactions tax,
which French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel favor to curb speculation on the markets and
repair public finances. The U.K., an EU member outside the euro
area, has said such a tax would have to be applied across the
Group of 20 nations to be effective and that it will oppose a
measure limited to the EU.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated his
opposition to a global transactions tax last week in  Poland ,
where he met with European officials and banking executives.
Geithner said transaction taxes hurt liquidity without limiting
leverage or swings in asset prices.  Belgian, Spanish Stance  The EU announced plans for the transaction tax in August,
following a 2010 proposal that failed to draw agreement among
member nations. On Sept. 17, Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  and Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the
euro area’s 17 governments should consider introducing their own
tax if no agreement were possible at the global or EU levels.  The commission’s new tax plan will be unveiled by Oct. 5
and will target the EU’s 2014-2020 budget cycle, said the EU
official, who did not want to be identified because the proposal
isn’t public yet. Algirdas Semeta, the EU taxation commissioner,
is scheduled to discuss the issue on Oct. 6 with the European
Parliament’s economic affairs committee.  Transactions with the  European Central Bank  and other
central banks wouldn’t be covered by the tax, according to the
document. It also includes an exemption for the “primary
market,” which includes sovereign and corporate bond auctions.  Broad Scope  The tax would cover financial transactions involving
stocks, bonds, derivatives, structured products and other types
of trades. The tax needs a broad scope so that financial
activity won’t move from one product to another to evade the
levy, the official said.  Foreign-exchange derivatives would be covered by the
proposal. The official said it hasn’t been decided whether to
include spot foreign-exchange trades.  The proposal would tax derivatives based on their notional
amount; the taxable amount wouldn’t be affected if a trade were
subsequently cancelled or changed, except in cases of genuine
error, according to the document.  The proposal will include different rates for various kinds
of products. In general, the proposed tax would be at a low
rate, although the proposal doesn’t specify rates, the official
said, adding that the plan won’t have different rates for retail
and institutional investors.  Budgetary Resource  “The commission is working on a proposal for a financial-
transaction tax at EU level that should be tabled within the
next two weeks,” EU spokesman David Boublil said in a statement
late yesterday.  Earlier this year, the EU said the tax ought to be
available by 2018 as a European budgetary resource. The goal
would be to implement it as soon as possible -- possibly by
2014, depending on when it is enacted by the parliament and
ratified by the 27 EU member states.  Finance ministers of  France  and  Germany  have called for the
tax plan to have a wide scope geographically. The levy should be
imposed when at least one party to a trade is located in the EU,
with territorial coverage in the region to be “as broad as
legally permissible,” Germany’s Wolfgang Schaeuble and France’s
 Francois Baroin  said in a Sept. 9 joint letter to the European
Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  