-- 
EU Urges Romania Complete Asset-Sale Plans Amid Market Turmoil

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-22T03:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/eu-urges-romania-complete-asset-sale-plans-amid-market-turmoil.html
The European Union urged  Romania  to
push ahead with its asset-sale plans after the Balkan country
signaled it may put projects aside as the deepening euro-debt
crisis makes investors wary of emerging-market holdings.  Romania, which promised international lenders it would sell
company stakes this year, is waiting for the right moment to
offer 15 percent of  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and may postpone asking
for bids for a stake in Transgaz SA until next year because of
adverse market conditions, said Victor Cazana, the Economy
Ministry’s director in charge of the sales.  “Increased market volatility should not be an excuse for
Romania to delay structural reforms but rather an opportunity to
promote them in order to safeguard market competitiveness,”
Istvan Szekely, the EU’s mission chief to the country, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “The government should
continue to move decisively ahead with the reform agenda.”  Romania and other east European countries including Poland
and Ukraine have put asset sales, designed to bolster state
coffers and finance infrastructure projects, on hold because of
global market turmoil. The largest Balkan nation’s government,
which may face opposition to such sales before 2012 elections,
rescheduled a 9.8 percent stake sale of oil company  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP)  for next year after failing to get enough bids in July.  “We believe that privatization proceeds this year will be
negligible,” Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar, analysts at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a Sept. 19 note to clients. “We
believe that the government is not very likely to become
aggressive in privatization ahead of the 2012 elections due to
the possibility of political backlash.”  Energy Sales  Romania wants to lure investors into buying its energy
assets to improve infrastructure such as roads and bridges as it
cuts spending to lower the  budget deficit  below 3 percent of
gross domestic product next year and meet pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU as part of a
precautionary loan agreement.  Citigroup said next year’s proceeds may be almost 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) if the government completes its sale plans,
compared with a record 2.5 billion euros in 2006, mostly from
the sale of the country’s largest bank, Banca Comerciala Romana
SA, to Erste Group Bank AG.  “We are doing our best to sell the Transelectrica stake
this year,” said the  Economy Ministry ’s Cazana in an interview.
“It may be too late for the Transgaz stake because we need a
pause between the offers.”  Polish, Russian Plans  Poland canceled a plan in August to sell a stake in PKO
Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest lender, valued at as much
as 6.8 billion zloty ($2.1 billion). Russia also said it plans
to raise 300 billion rubles ($9.5 billion) next year by selling
stakes in state companies such as OAO Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer, and VTB Group, its second-biggest lender,
as part of 1.16 trillion-ruble asset-sale program between 2012
and 2014.  “Currently, there is a fierce competition between
different countries and regions of the world to maintain
existing and attract new foreign investors,” Szekely said. In
Romania, “structural reforms should not be stalled next year,
but rather accelerated, by creating a competitive business
environment” and “prioritizing strategic investments in
infrastructure facilities.”  The former communist country wants to revive the stake sale
in Petrom in the first half of next year and also sell a 15
percent stake in its natural-gas producer Romgaz SA, according
to the ministry’s data. It will try to sell 20 percent stakes in
 CFR Marfa SA , an unprofitable rail-freight company, and state-
owned airline  TAROM SA .  Market Difficulties  The ministry gave up a plan to sell an additional 12
percent stake in Transelectrica this year, aimed at giving the
company money for investments, after the Ministry of Justice
didn’t approve the proposal, Cazana said.  “It’s very hard to place any offer in the market right now
and at a reasonable price,” Florin Ilie, an equity analyst at
ING Groep NV’s Romanian unit, said in a phone interview. “We
know that the government is not keen on accepting lower prices,
but this is the market now and it should not be discouraged by
temporary obstacles and continue the privatization process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  