-- 
Europe Mulls Increasing Rescue Fund Firepower

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-22T20:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/europe-mulls-increasing-rescue-fund-firepower.html
European finance chiefs said they
may use leverage to increase the financial firepower of their
regional bailout fund as a selloff in stocks signaled renewed
concern that policy makers are failing to ward off a global
economic slump.  The call to consider raising their fund’s ammunition --
made by French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and European
Union Commissioner Olli Rehn -- suggests Europe’s policy makers
are alert to concern among investors and foreign governments
that they now lack the muscle to quell their debt turmoil if it
spreads toward Italy and  Spain .  How to tackle Europe’s woes will top the agenda when
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
nations gather for dinner in Washington tonight ahead of the
annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and World
Bank. They convene after global stocks entered a bear market and
Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian warned the world is on the brink of another
financial crisis.  “There has been a significant increase in the financial
requirements of international intervention,” El-Erian said in
 Washington . “You need a lot more firepower in order to be a
circuit breaker.”  July Plan  European parliaments are now focused on approving a July
plan to expand the scope of the 440-billion euro ($593 billion)
European Financial Stability Facility to allow it to buy the
debt of stressed euro-area governments, aid troubled banks and
offer credit lines. Its current role is to sell bonds to fund
rescue loans for cash-strapped governments.  The ratification process has drawn fire from some investors
for being protracted and failing to provide the fund with enough
cash to prevent the crisis leaking beyond  Greece . Curbing the
scope of policy makers to do more is the suspicion taxpayers in
AAA-rated countries such as Germany and  Finland  would balk at
stumping up even more rescue cash.  That has fanned speculation Europe may eventually ratchet
up the fund’s spending power, perhaps by using the bonds it
sells as collateral to borrow more cash from the  European
Central Bank . Another proposal is to mimic a U.S. program
established following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. by allowing the fund to offer the ECB credit
protection for buying more sovereign bonds.  EFSF Resources  “It is very important that we look at the possibility of
leveraging the EFSF resources and funding to have a stronger
impact and make it more effective,” EU Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Rehn said in Washington. Baroin said separately
that policy makers “need the right firewall to prevent
contagion” and can discuss giving the fund “the necessary
strength.”  German officials have so far rejected using the ECB to
increase the power of the bailout fund, warning it could push
the central bank further into the realm of fiscal policy. Former
German Finance Minister Hans Eichel nevertheless suggested today
that the rescue fund be given “unlimited powers” to convince
investors that leaders are determined to beat the crisis.  “If it had unlimited power, it would calm the market,”
Eichel said at a panel discussion in Bloomberg LP’s London
office organized by GLG Research. “The risk with unlimited
powers is lower than if it has limited funds.”  Credit Crisis  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who said in an
interview this week that  Europe  will adopt some of the same
measures the U.S. used to combat its credit crisis, today
predicted it will act “with more force” to end its troubles.  Until governments act, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene 
that the ECB must continue to provide “solid, reliable”
funding for troubled economies.  In a sign currently-stronger economies may be willing to
support the weak, finance officials from  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,
China and  South Africa  -- the so-called BRICS -- said in a
statement that they are “open to consider, if necessary,
providing support through the IMF or other international
financial institutions in order to address the present
challenges to financial stability.”  There may be limits to what they’re willing to do.  China 
can support the European and global economies only “at the
margin” and Europe must find its own the solution to its
crisis, Chinese central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in
Washington.  ‘Decisive Action’  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and five other G-20
leaders wrote to French President Nicolas Sarkozy to urge him to
use his chairmanship of the body to find agreement on “decisive
action” to support growth.  The risk of not doing so was underscored by a fall in
Treasury 10-year yields to a record and a dip in oil below $80 a
barrel. The MSCI All-Country World Index extended its losses
from its May peak beyond 20 percent and emerging-market stocks
plunged the most in almost three years. FedEx Corp., an economic
bellwether that delivers goods ranging from pharmaceuticals to
financial documents, cut its full-year profit forecast as demand
dropped in the U.S. and  Asia .  “The world is in a danger zone,”  World Bank  President
Robert Zoellick told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Washington at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Shamim Adam in Washington at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  