-- 
Euro Debt Woes Push Czech Central Bank to Eye Rate Cut Again

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-09-23T12:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/euro-debt-woes-push-czech-central-bank-to-mull-rate-cut-again.html
The Czech central bank signaled it
may consider lowering borrowing costs for the first time since
May 2010 as the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis intensifies
downside inflation risks.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has bucked monetary tightening this
year as central banks across Europe increased credit costs to
fend off inflation pressures. All seven board members voted to
leave the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, half of the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, in Prague yesterday, the 11th
consecutive meeting where the benchmark was left unchanged.  An economic slowdown in the euro area, the main market for
Czech exports, and a lower outlook for borrowing costs than
previously thought in the currency bloc, have postponed raising
Czech rates until around the end of this year, according to a
central bank forecast from August. If the debt crisis deepens, a
rate cut may follow, Governor Miroslav Singer said.  “I can imagine a scenario in which our next move will not
be upward,” Singer said in noting a change in the bank board’s
thinking. The next move may be “in any direction, although we
didn’t find a reason for a move now,” he said.  The central bank has maintained record-low borrowing costs
as budget cuts constrained domestic demand, helping to tame
inflation. The bank, whose sole mandate is  price stability , cut
the main rate by 3 percentage points during the global economic
crisis that sparked the worst Czech recession since the end of
communism in 1989.  Slowing Growth  The economic recovery is dependent on European Union demand
for its products, which include Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car
parts. The bloc purchases about 80 percent of Czech exports,
with Germany alone accounting for a third.  Czech growth eased in the second quarter for the first time
since a 2009 recession as a slowdown in the EU dented demand for
exports and government austerity measures curbed domestic
spending. The inflation rate has been below the central bank’s 2
percent target for three months, while industrial-output growth
has slowed and retail sales have fallen.  Gross domestic product rose 2.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, after growing 2.8 percent in the
first three months. The August inflation rate was 1.7 percent,
unchanged from July and less than the central bank’s 2 percent
target. July retail sales fell 1.7 percent from a year earlier,
while industrial-output growth slowed to 4.4 percent, the worst
reading in 19 months.  Euro Economy  Europe ’s economy is cooling as governments struggle to
restore investor confidence in their ability to prevent a Greek
default and stop the crisis from spreading. Spanish and Italian
government bond yields have surged to euro-era records and
economic confidence in the currency bloc slumped in August.  The euro-area’s economy may fail to gather strength in the
current quarter, expanding 0.2 percent from the previous three
months before cooling to 0.1 percent in the final quarter, the
European Commission in Brussels forecast last week. It had
previously projected a rise of 0.4 percent for both periods.  Investors have reversed bets on an increase in Czech
borrowing costs. Forward-rate agreements locking-in three month
 interest rates  in nine-months fell to 1.045 percent today,
according to mid-prices compiled by Bloomberg, from 1.400
percent at the time of the last monetary meeting on Aug. 4. The
three-month Prague interbank offered rate, or Pribor, was 1.17
percent today.  Koruna’s Influence  Future moves in Czech interest rates will be influenced by
developments with the koruna, said Singer. A stronger currency
tames inflationary pressures and tightens monetary conditions by
making Czech exports more expensive, while a weaker koruna works
in the opposite direction.  The Czech koruna has gained 0.6 percent to the euro since
the start of the year, the best performance among currencies of
eastern EU members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was little changed at 24.858 per euro as of 2:21 p.m. in  Prague 
today.  The central bank also uses the outlook for the euro area’s
market interest rates among variables in its forecasts. The
projections from August assumed a three-month Euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, at 2 percent in 2012, while the
current consensus forecast sees it at 1.1 percent, according to
a Czech central bank presentation published yesterday.  External Influences  “At this moment, when we look at risks to our forecast,
which are principally driven by external environment, they are
quite markedly in the direction of lower rates, and less
markedly in the direction of lower inflation,” Singer said.  The bank’s monetary-policy inflation rate is expected to
hold close to its target, while headline inflation will be
influenced by an increase in the value-added tax in January and
accelerate to more than 3 percent, the central bank said.  The main inflationary risk is a weakening of the koruna
while the main anti-inflationary risks are a lower outlook for
foreign interest rates and the state of the financial industry
and public finances in developed countries, the central bank
said.  Singer’s comments signal a “neutral bias” for the bank,
Morgan Stanley analyst Pasquale Diana said in a note after the
rate decision.  “We continue to see rates on hold at 0.75 percent
indefinitely in our forecast, with a rising risk of further
easing, which would take them even closer to zero,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  