-- 
Europe Officials Weigh Forming Crisis ‘Firewall’

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-22T18:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/europe-officials-mull-leveraging-efsf-to-build-crisis-firewall-.html
European officials said governments
may leverage the region’s bailout program to erect a
“firewall” around the sovereign debt crisis once a revamp of
the fund is completed.  “To stabilize the  euro zone , we need the right firewall to
prevent contagion,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
told reporters today in Washington before meeting his Group of
20 counterparts. The firewall is the European Financial
Stability Facility, and “we can discuss how to give it the
necessary strength, about using the power of leverage to give it
systemic force,” he said.  European parliaments are now focused on approving a July
plan to expand the remit of the 440-billion euro ($593 billion)
EFSF to allow it to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
governments, aid troubled banks and offer credit lines. Its
current role is to sell bonds to fund rescue loans for cash-
strapped governments.  The ratification process has drawn fire from some investors
for being protracted and failing to provide the fund with enough
cash to fulfill its new duties and prevent the turmoil from
spreading to economies such as Spain and  Italy . That has fanned
speculation  Europe  may eventually expand the fund’s firepower by
using leverage in a partnership with the  European Central Bank 
that would leave the EFSF covering initial losses.  ‘Stronger Impact’  “It is very important that we look at the possibility of
leveraging the EFSF resources and funding to have a stronger
impact and make it more effective,” European Union Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in Washington today. He said
the enhanced facility will be “up and running” in the second
half of October.  The use of leverage is similar to the  Federal Reserve ’s
Term Asset-Backed-Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, set up in
2008 after the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Under
that program, the New York Fed offered loans to firms that held
eligible collateral. Under the terms of the program, if
borrowers didn’t repay the loan, the Fed would sell the
collateral to a special-purpose entity, and the Treasury
Department would be first in line to absorb any resulting
losses.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who ran the
New York Fed when TALF was created and met with European
officials in Poland last weekend, predicted today that Europe
will act “with more force” to end the Greek-led debt turmoil
now nearing its third year.  Another proposal from economists  Daniel Gros  and Thomas
Meyer is for the EFSF to operate like a bank and borrow from the
ECB, using the bonds it purchases as collateral.  German officials have so far rejected using the ECB to
increase the power of the bailout fund, warning it could push
the central bank further into the realms of fiscal policy.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said Sept. 17 he also
attached “big question markets” to the idea of allowing the
facility to run like a bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in  Washington  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  