-- 
European Banks Tumble on Funding Concern, Economic Outlook

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-22T14:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/european-banks-tumble-on-funding-concern-fed-s-economic-outlook.html
European banking stocks plunged,
led by  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , on
concern about access to funding and after the  Federal Reserve 
signaled “significant downside” risks for the  U.S. economy .  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index fell 4.4 percent, extending this year’s drop to 38
percent. French banks led declines as Societe Generale dropped
as much as 9.7 percent to 15.28 euros in Paris trading, the
lowest in 19 years. Natixis SA fell as much as 8.6 percent and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  slid as much as 8.2 percent. Lloyds, the
U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, dropped as much as 9 percent.  Financial shares fell on concern a Fed plan to buy $400
billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30 years through June
will curb profit margins for global banks. The decision by
Moody’s Investors Service to cut the credit ratings of lenders
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added to concern about access to
funding and whether capital levels are sufficient for European
lenders, said Christoph Bossman, an analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf.  “It’s the same news concerning the funding situation and
banks’ capitalization, and on top of that we have the news from
the Fed,” Bossman said in a telephone interview today.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which is comprised of 24 U.S. banks,
fell 2 percent at 10:42 a.m. in  New York .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
dropped 86 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $29.48 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Bank of America Corp. lost 16 cents,
or 2.5 percent, to $6.22.  S&P Index  The Standard & Poor’s 500 index slumped 2.9 percent
yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service cut the long-term
credit ratings of Bank of America and Wells Fargo & Co., saying
U.S. support had become less likely if lenders got into
financial trouble.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term rating also was
cut by Moody’s.  The International Monetary Fund on Sept. 20 reduced its
forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  The extra yield investors demand to hold banks’ senior
bonds instead of benchmark government debt has soared to 322
basis points, from 202 at the end of July, according to Barclays
Capital’s Euro Aggregate Banking Senior Index. The gauge reached
an all-time high of 325 basis points on Dec. 30, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  