-- 
European Stocks Slide to Two-Year Low as Fed Sees Economic Risks

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-22T16:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/european-stock-index-futures-drop-as-federal-reserve-sees-risks-to-economy.html
European stocks tumbled to a two-
year low as the  Federal Reserve  signaled “significant downside
risks” to the world’s largest economy and Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded three U.S. banks.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, plunged 12 percent after cutting its forecasts
for the second time in two months. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company, sank the most in more than two
years as copper fell for a fifth day.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  led luxury stocks lower.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 4.6 percent to 214.89 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest since July 2009.
Today’s drop was the biggest in five weeks and extends the
decline from this year’s high on Feb. 17 to 26 percent amid
concern the global economic recovery is stalling and the
European debt crisis is spreading.  “To have a chance to resolve the European debt situation,
we need world growth to remain robust,” said Jean-Paul Jeckelmann, chief investment officer at Banque Bonhote & Cie. in
Neuchatel, Switzerland, who helps manage $1.4 billion in
equities. “Any sign that this growth is at risk will shake
markets. The word ‘significant’ used by the Fed is pretty strong
and is contrasting with previous declarations that were much
more constructive.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes retreated in all of the 18
western European markets. Germany’s DAX Index declined 5 percent
and France’s CAC 40 dropped 5.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
slid 4.7 percent, the most since March 2009.  The Fed said it will replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort
to reduce borrowing costs further amid “significant downside
risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global
financial markets.”  The central bank will buy securities with maturities of 6
to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less, the Federal Open Market
Committee said late yesterday after a two-day meeting. The
action “should put downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the FOMC said.  The Fed’s “downbeat outlook for the economy left traders
fleeing from risky assets,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at
London Capital Group, said in e-mailed comments.  Bank Downgrades  Moody’s downgraded the long-term credit ratings of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co ., along with Citigroup Inc.’s
short-term rating, saying U.S. support has become less likely if
lenders get into financial trouble.  Greece said it will accelerate budget cuts, targeting civil
servants’ wages and pensioners to keep emergency loans flowing
and avoid default, following two rounds of talks with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The policies
were demanded by lenders to ensure Greece reaches deficit-
reduction targets in a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout
and receives a payment due next month.  “A promise of accelerating budget cuts is another attempt
at buying more time,” said Manish Singh, London-based head of
investment at Crossbridge Capital, which has more than $2
billion under management. “More austerity will pile on that
pain and be deeply unpopular. I wonder if a quick Greek default
is not a better option than long, drawn-out uncertainty and then
a default.”  Economic Data  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined. A report in Brussels showed
that European services and manufacturing growth contracted for
the first time in more than two years in September.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said the global
economy has entered a critical phase, with developing countries
facing growing challenges and the temptation to consider
protectionist trade policies.  “The world is in a danger zone,” Zoellick said today in
 Washington . “Developing countries face increasing headwinds.”
Zoellick also said that while he doesn’t expect the world
economy will fall into a recession, his “confidence in this
belief is eroded daily”  Logitech fell 12 percent to 6.88 Swiss francs, the biggest
decline since April. The company cut its sales and operating
profit forecasts for the second time in two months after
reassessing its business under Chairman Guerrino De Luca acting
as chief executive officer.  Mining Companies Retreat  A gauge of mining companies in the Stoxx 600 plunged the
most since December 2008 as copper fell to the lowest in almost
a year and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
dropped as much as 4.7 percent.  Rio Tinto and larger rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  sank 11
percent to 3,023 pence and 8.3 percent to 1,731.50 pence,
respectively.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  fell 13 percent to 972.5 pence,
the biggest drop since November 2008.  Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR)  fell
11 percent to 44.9 euro cents while  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , the biggest
copper producer in Kazakhstan, dropped 12 percent to 846.5
pence.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slid 13 percent to 1,117 pence.  LVMH, the maker of Celine handbags and TAG Heuer watches,
tumbled 6.1 percent to 106.90 euros. Burberry, the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, retreated 9.8 percent to 1,361
pence, the biggest drop since November 2008.  Banks Drop  BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank, retreated 5.7
percent to 23.06 euros. Chief Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot 
said the bank plans “significant” staff reductions at its
investment-banking unit as the lender cuts total assets by about
10 percent.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest by
assets, slid 9.6 percent to 15.31 euros, the lowest since 1992.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, lost 10 percent to 32.51 pence while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sank
9.4 percent to 138.85 pence.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
fell 8.4 percent to 20.25 euros.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial-services
commissioner, told Le Figaro in an interview that he can’t rule
out the possibility that some European banks will need state
aid. Barnier said in the interview that he doesn’t share the
view of the IMF on the capital needs of European banks. Any
necessary refinancing should preferably be carried out with
private money, he added.  EADS, Bourbon  European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. slid 7.9 percent
to 20.89 euros.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and Societe Generale have stopped
lending to aircraft purchasers because of difficulties in
obtaining dollar financing, Les Echos reported, without citing
anyone. Airbus SAS may be affected more than Boeing Co., which
has easier access to credit in the U.S., the newspaper said.  Bourbon SA (GBB) , owner of the second-biggest fleet of supply and
crew ships for the oil industry, slumped 8.5 percent to 17.81
euros as Bank of America Corp. said the growing liquidity
concern around French banks “raises question marks” around
financing for part of the European oil industry, adding that
Bourbon is “heavily reliant on French banks financing for their
fleet expansion program.”  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  plunged 9.5 percent to 17.01 euros,
extending yesterday’s 19 percent plunge, after Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, cut the shares to
“sell” from “buy.” The company said yesterday it will have a
one-time charge of about 97 million euros in the third quarter
because of unpaid bills from Serbian drug wholesalers.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount airline,
rallied 9 percent to 340 pence, the largest gain in two months,
as the company said it will pay a dividend of 9 pence a share
for the fiscal year ending in September after raising its annual
profit forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  