-- 
Europeans Join U.S. Exit From Ahmadinejad’s ‘Despicable’ Speech

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/europeans-join-u-s-exit-from-ahmadinejad-s-despicable-speech.html
U.S. and European Union diplomats
walked out from the  United Nations  General Assembly hall today
to protest Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s attacks on
the U.S., its Western allies and  Israel .  “Mr. Ahmadinejad had a chance to address his own people’s
aspirations for freedom and dignity, but instead he again turned
to abhorrent anti-Semitic slurs and despicable conspiracy
theories,” Mark Kornblau, spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the
UN, said in an e-mailed statement.  Ahmadinejad spent most of his address assailing U.S.
policy. He alleged that America “triggered” World Wars I and
II and is the “root cause” of the world’s economic distress
and political turmoil. He repeatedly referred to the sins of
“Zionists” against the Palestinians and the  Middle East .  “Iran’s president once again, as in his previous
appearances in  New York  and elsewhere, brought a message of
hostility towards the family of nations as well as threats to
global peace and security,” Israel’s foreign ministry said in a
statement. “The international community should not have
dignified the Iranian president with this platform to speak.”  Ahmadinejad accused the U.S. of using the “mysterious”
Sept. 11 attacks as a “pretext” to invade Afghanistan and
 Iraq . He said that by killing  Osama bin Laden  and burying him at
sea, the U.S. prevented identification of “the elements behind
the safe space provided for the invading aircraft to attack the
two world trade towers.”  Increasing Isolation  The Iranian leader came to the General Assembly lectern at
a moment of declining political fortunes at home and increasing
isolation in the Muslim world for backing Syria’s violent
efforts to crush anti-government protests, analysts said.  “Ahmadinejad has a lot of energy and he’s a fighter, but
his political career seems to be in end-game as the 2013 Iranian
presidential elections approach,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at
New York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said in an
interview.  In Iran, Ahmadinejad has appeared to lose a series of power
struggles with the ruling clerics, over appointments to his
government and lately when Islamic courts temporarily overruled
his bid to release the two Americans held on charges of
espionage and illegal entry.  “There was a sense over the past year that he was changing
the nature of the regime from one based on clerics to one based
on the Revolutionary Guards and security forces.” Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century Foundation, a New York-
based research group, said in an interview. “Some imagined a
kind of quiet coup, but the clerics struck back.”  President  Barack Obama  used his speech to the General
Assembly yesterday to assail Ahmadinejad’s treatment of anti-
government protesters and his defiance of UN Security Council
resolutions demanding a halt to  Iran ’s enrichment of uranium, a
process that might lead to building nuclear weapons.  Iranians ‘Brutally’ Repressed  “While President Ahmadinejad is lecturing the world from
the UN podium, dissent is still being crushed ruthlessly in Iran
and basic rights demanded by millions in the Arab world are
brutally denied to Iranians who are demanding the same,”
Philippe Bolopion of New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said.
“The world assembly should take with a grain of salt the
remarks of a leader who said nothing about the public hanging
yesterday of 17-year-old in his own country.”  Ahmad Batebi, an Iranian dissident granted asylum by the
U.S., characterized the speech as “repulsive lies and
conspiracy theories” in an e-mail from Geneva-based UN Watch.  Ahmadinejad’s support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
put him at odds this week with the Arab Parliament, a body set
up by the  Arab League  that asked it to suspend the membership of
 Syria .  “He has been damaged by the Syrian connection,” Laurenti
said. “Iran celebrated the Arab Spring when it toppled American
allies and was caught up short when it hit their own favorite
ally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  