-- 
European Services, Manufacturing Shrink for First Time Since 2009 on Debt

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-22T09:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/european-services-manufacturing-shrink-for-first-time-since-2009-on-debt.html
Euro-area services and
manufacturing output shrank for the first time in more than two
years in September as the region’s worsening debt crisis added
to concerns that the economy could slide back into a recession.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries fell below 50, indicating contraction, for
the first time since July 2009, London-based Markit Economics
said in an initial estimate today. The index fell to 49.2 this
month from 50.7 in August, a deeper slide than the drop to 49.8
that economists had forecast, according to the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe ’s economy is cooling as governments struggle to
restore investor confidence in their ability to prevent a Greek
default and stop the crisis from spreading. Spanish and Italian
government bond yields have surged to euro-era records and euro-
area economic confidence slumped in August, leaving companies
such as  Daimler AG (DAI)  reliant on faster-growing markets.  Today’s figures “make grim reading and raise the specter
of a renewed economic downturn,” said Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “With ongoing fiscal
austerity and political leaders still way behind the curve in
terms of resolving the debt crisis, we cannot dismiss the risk
of a full-blown recession.”  The euro was lower against the dollar after the data,
trading at $1.3475 at 11:18 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.9 percent
on the day.  ‘Virtual Standstill’  The euro-area services indicator fell to 49.1 this month
from 51.5 in August, Markit said. The manufacturing gauge
decreased to 48.4 from 49. Both indexes dropped more than
economists had forecast. In  Germany , a gauge of manufacturing
output declined to 50 from 50.9 in August, while the French
indicator fell to 47.3 from 49.1 in the previous month.  The euro-area economy may fail to gather strength in the
current quarter, expanding 0.2 percent from the previous three
months, before cooling to 0.1 percent in the final quarter, the
European Commission in Brussels forecast last week. It had
previously projected growth of 0.4 percent for both periods.  Growth could come to a “virtual standstill” by year end,
European Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said on
Sept. 15. “The sovereign-debt crisis has worsened, and the
financial-market turmoil is set to dampen the real economy.”  Industrial Orders  Adding to signs of slowdown, euro-region industrial orders
dropped 2.1 percent in July from the previous month, the
European Union’s statistics office said today. That’s the
biggest drop since September 2010. German orders fell 3 percent,
while  France  reported an 11.2 percent slump.  “The euro-zone economy probably stagnated in the third
quarter, having slipped into contraction for the first time in
just over two years in September,”  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit, said in the statement. “Germany and France
both saw growth rates deteriorate to near-stagnation in
September, while the rest of the single-currency area suffered
the steepest contraction for over two years.”  In  China , the world’s second-largest economy, manufacturing
may shrink for a third month in September after a preliminary
index of purchasing managers released today showed measures of
export orders and output declined. U.S. Federal Reserve policy
makers yesterday indicated they are willing to do more to keep
the world’s biggest economy from sliding into another recession.  Debt Crisis  With leaders struggling to contain a worsening debt crisis,
the  European Central Bank  on Sept. 8 kept borrowing costs at 1.5
percent and lowered its growth forecasts for this year and next.
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on that day that the economy
is facing “intensified downside risks.”  Italy’s credit rating was cut this week by  Standard &
Poor’s  on concern that weakening economic growth and a
“fragile” government mean the nation won’t be able to cut the
region’s second-heaviest debt burden. In  Greece , officials are
also struggling to restore investor confidence. Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said on Sept. 10 that the country “will
remain in the euro” and this “means difficult decisions.”  “Greece’s position is extremely precarious and any default
would likely be very disorderly,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist
at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an e-mailed statement
before today’s report. “For the time being, Europe continues to
urge Athens to meet its reform commitments, while the rest of
the world hopes and prays that the strategy works.”  German Economy  The German economy, Europe’s largest, has helped to offset
the impact of tougher austerity measures in countries from  Spain 
to Ireland as companies boost output and hiring to meet global
export demand.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s factories are
“working at full tilt,” Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner told reporters on Sept. 8. German rival Audi AG is
hiring staff to increase car production.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, said on Sept. 19 that
it expects truck sales to grow helped by Chinese demand. The
world’s largest maker of heavy-duty vehicles forecasts its own
truck sales to increase annually by about 14 percent helped by
expansion in China,  Russia  and  India , said  Andreas Renschler ,
head of the Daimler Truck division. The European market may grow
35 percent to 40 percent this year, with the U.S. expanding as
much as 35 percent.  “The trend is unequivocally positive,” Renschler told
reporters on Sept. 19. “By and large, signs we’re getting from
customers are encouraging.”  Waning Confidence  Prada SpA, the Italian luxury goods maker that had  Hong
Kong ’s biggest initial public offering this year, said on Sept.
19 that first-half profit jumped 74 percent from a year earlier
led by surging Asian sales.  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , Europe’s second-
biggest distiller, earlier this month reported annual profit
growth in line with analyst estimates, as strong sales in
emerging markets offset tough conditions in Spain and Greece.  A gauge measuring new orders in the euro region dropped for
a second month in September, with manufacturers reporting a
“sharp deterioration in demand,” Markit said. Manufacturing
export orders fell for a third straight month and companies
reported the weakest rise in employment since Oct. 2010.  Euro-region consumers probably also grew more pessimistic
in September, with a gauge dropping to the lowest in almost two
years, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
European Commission will release an initial estimate of
household confidence at 4 p.m. today.  “There are no real growth impulses at the moment,” said
Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche Postbank in Bonn,
Germany. “Uncertainty is extremely high and people tend to
focus on downward risks. The next couple of months will be very,
very difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  