-- 
HP Said to Be Preparing to Name Whitman Permanent CEO Today

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-22T18:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hewlett-packard-will-name-whitman-ceo-after-markets-today-allthingsd-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is preparing to
name former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  as its
next CEO today, ousting  Leo Apotheker  after less than 11 months,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The board, which is meeting today, is expected to make
Whitman its permanent CEO, countering reports that she was being
considered as an interim leader, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Apotheker, who became CEO in November, rankled investors by
lowering sales forecasts three times and making jarring strategy
shifts. Before yesterday, when Bloomberg reported that he may be
fired, the company’s stock had plunged 47 percent on his watch.
“Investor exasperation” with management is at its highest in
more than a decade, according to Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “There’s certainly a lot of investor discontent,” Amit Daryanani, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco,
said yesterday. He rates the shares “sector perform” and
doesn’t own them. “There’s widespread frustration with the fact
that numbers have been cut three times since he’s been there.”  Hewlett-Packard fell $1.27, or 5.3 percent, to $22.71 at
2:21 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  Caught Unaware  As of yesterday morning, Apotheker was preparing to discuss
Hewlett-Packard’s strategy at today’s board meeting and didn’t
know his standing as CEO was being questioned, according to a
person close to the situation.  The  AllThingsD blog  previously reported that Whitman would
be named CEO today. Michael Thacker, a spokeswoman for Palo
Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  Whitman, 55, joined Hewlett-Packard’s board in January
after a failed bid to become  California ’s governor last year.
She had a mixed record at EBay. CEO for a decade, she took the
company public and pioneered e-commerce for small businesses.
Yet in the final years of her tenure, she couldn’t halt a
slowdown in sales growth and overpaid for Skype Technologies SA
after a bidding war with Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.  Before EBay, Whitman worked as an executive at the toy
company Hasbro Inc., the floral service FTD Inc., footwear maker
Stride Rite Corp. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   For Hewlett-Packard, which is increasingly focused on
selling to businesses, Whitman is probably not the right person
for the long term, said Dana Stalder, a partner at venture-
capital firm Matrix Partners in  Palo Alto , California.  The Right Person?  “It’s not clear to me that someone who spent 30 years in
the consumer space is the right person for an enterprise
technology company,” said Stalder, who worked under Whitman for
seven years at EBay. “HP is increasingly becoming an enterprise
company, given the focus on enterprise software and services.”  Whitman also hasn’t run a company of Hewlett-Packard’s
size. It had revenue of more than $126 billion in the past
fiscal year, almost 14 times the size of EBay’s sales.  “She’s on the board and is a logical interim CEO, but not
a logical long-term CEO,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco . He who has a “neutral”
rating on the stock. “She doesn’t have enterprise experience.”  Pressure on Apotheker intensified on Aug. 18, when he
announced a sweeping overhaul that included a $10.3 billion
acquisition of Autonomy Corp. and a possible spinoff of the
personal-computer business. He also killed off the company’s
WebOS tablets and smartphones, five months after vowing to put
the operating system on a full range of the company’s computers.  Stock Slump  The shares plunged 20 percent following the announcement,
fueled by concerns that Autonomy was too expensive and the plans
showed a lack of deliberation.  Hewlett-Packard directors met yesterday in committees and
are gathering today as a full board, according to a person close
to the situation. Directors are concerned about the stock price
and its lack of improvement under Apotheker’s leadership, the
person said. Some top Hewlett-Packard executives also opposed
the acquisition of Autonomy, a deal pushed by Apotheker,
according to the person.  Hewlett-Packard’s board also is open to re-examining the PC
split business because some directors think the idea wasn’t
studied as thoroughly as other spinoffs, such as one by  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) , a person familiar with the discussion said.  The possible spinoff would take as long as 18 months to
complete, Hewlett-Packard said at the time. That elicited
criticism that it should have had a buyer lined up or a more
concrete plan in place before making the announcement.  Severance Pay  Apotheker stands to receive a minimum payout of $7.2
million, according to a copy of his employment contract filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. He would also
have some  stock options  that vest, in full, as of the
termination date.  Dominique Senequier, a board member, also plans to leave
the company. Hewlett-Packard disclosed her departure in a Sept.
9 filing, without making a separate announcement. Senequier, who
is CEO of AXA Private Equity, the investment buyout arm of
French insurer AXA SA, plans to leave after the annual meeting
set for March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  