-- 
Hewlett-Packard Reeling Accelerates CEO Succession Crisis: Tech

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-22T02:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hewlett-packard-shares-reeling-47-accelerates-ceo-succession-crisis-tech.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , weighing the
ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , may struggle to
find a new leader who can revive the ailing computer maker after
11 months of strategy shifts and slashed forecasts.  Hewlett-Packard’s board plans to consider firing Apotheker,
two people familiar with the matter said yesterday. It may
appoint former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  CEO  Meg Whitman , a Hewlett-Packard
director, to serve as an interim leader, said one of the people.
The stock had plunged 47 percent on his watch as of Sept. 20,
the worst performance in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “It’s not going to be easy,” said Michael Mullaney, who
helps manage $9.5 billion, including Hewlett-Packard shares, at
Fiduciary Trust in Boston. “They have to go back and redefine
what they want to be as a company, go back to the drawing
board.”  Apotheker’s ouster would leave the board looking for a
leader who can do a better job helping Hewlett-Packard weather a
personal-computer slump while pushing further into the market
for products that deliver computing services over the Web. CEO
candidates may also include  Todd Bradley , who runs Hewlett-
Packard’s PC unit, and David Donatelli, head of the business in
charge of servers, storage and networking, said  Jayson Noland ,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  Other possible candidates that would make sense include
 Gary Moore , chief operating officer of Cisco Systems Inc., or
 Steve Mills , who runs the software unit at International
Business Machines Corp., said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. in San Francisco.  Board Discussions  Hewlett-Packard directors met yesterday in committees and
will gather today as a full board, according to a person close
to the situation. Directors are concerned about the stock price
and its lack of improvement under Apotheker’s leadership, the
person said. Some top Hewlett-Packard executives also opposed
the acquisition of Autonomy Corp., a deal pushed by Apotheker,
according to the person.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , jumped
$1.51, or 6.7 percent, to $23.98 yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange after Bloomberg reported the possible management
change. The stock is still down 44 percent since Apotheker, 58,
became CEO on Nov. 1, compared with the 1.5 percent decline in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  A new CEO would be Hewlett-Packard’s seventh  leader  since
1999, when  Carly Fiorina  took over from Lewis Platt. Fiorina
departed in 2005 and was replaced on an interim basis by Robert Wayman, until the company named  Mark Hurd  to the top job. After
Hurd resigned,  Cathie Lesjak  took the reins temporarily until
Apotheker came aboard.  PC Options  In addition to discussing Apotheker’s future, the board is
reconsidering a proposal to spin off the PC business, a person
familiar with the matter said. Apotheker, the former CEO of
German software maker SAP AG, said the company was exploring
options for that unit on Aug. 18.  The same day, Hewlett-Packard agreed to buy software maker
Autonomy for $10.3 billion. The company also said it was
discontinuing products running its WebOS mobile software,
including smartphones and tablets -- less than six months after
saying it planned to put the operating system on every Hewlett-
Packard computer. Shares slumped after the announcements on
concerns that Hewlett-Packard was paying too much for the
acquisition and the strategic changes showed a lack of
deliberation.  Corporate Focus  With the Autonomy purchase and shift in focus, Apotheker
was pursuing a plan to lessen the company’s reliance on lower-
margin consumer products and concentrate on more-profitable
corporate businesses such as servers, software and network
services. Any successor to Apotheker will need to do a better
job communicating the company’s vision to shareholders, said
Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston , which
owns Hewlett-Packard shares.  “Leo’s tenure as CEO has been disastrous,” Ursillo said.  Under one scenario, the board may appoint Whitman until a
permanent candidate emerges, according to a person with
knowledge of the board’s thinking.  Whitman, 55, has been a Hewlett-Packard director since
January, two months after she lost a bid to become governor of
California. Before entering politics, Whitman spent 10 years at
the helm of EBay, the world’s largest online marketplace, and
established a career at consumer-related companies.  Whitman’s Consumer Expertise  For Hewlett-Packard, which is focusing on selling to
businesses, Whitman is probably not the right person for the
long-term, said Dana Stalder, a partner at venture capital firm
Matrix Partners in  Palo Alto , California.  “It’s not clear to me that someone who spent 30 years in
the consumer space is the right person for an enterprise
technology company,” said Stalder, who worked under Whitman for
seven years at EBay. “HP is increasingly becoming an enterprise
company, given the focus on enterprise software and services.”  Sales in Hewlett-Packard’s technology solutions group,
which includes services, software and enterprise storage and
servers, rose 14 percent in the fiscal third quarter to $15.9
billion. By contrast, revenue in the business that comprises
notebooks and PCs fell 3.3 percent to $9.59 billion.  Donatelli, executive vice president of the enterprise
business, joined Hewlett-Packard in 2009 after 22 years at EMC
Corp., the world’s biggest maker of storage computers. Sterne
Agee’s Wu, along with Noland from Baird, said Donatelli may be a
candidate for the top job.  Challenging IBM, Oracle  The company needs a leader who can mount a challenge to the
biggest providers of technology for corporations, such as IBM,
Oracle Corp. and Cisco, Wu said.  “They basically need a turnaround specialist,” Wu said.
“It’s not going to be an easy role, whoever it is. Autonomy and
the PC business -- they’ve got to figure out what to do there
because not everyone thinks those are necessarily the right
moves.”  Bradley, who runs the PC business, said last month that he
would like to oversee the unit if it’s spun out as a separate
company. Bradley, 52, came to Hewlett-Packard in 2005 from
PalmOne Inc., where he spent four years.  “I’m very focused on continuing to work with the team of
people that have been so successful at making this the largest
and most profitable PC company in the world,” Bradley said in
an Aug. 23 interview on “Bloomberg West.”  As much as anything, Hewlett-Packard has to find an
executive who can help the company get past a series of
embarrassments that date back to a boardroom spying scandal in
2006 and continued through last year, when former CEO Hurd quit
amid sexual-harassment allegations.  “It’s been really hard to watch what seems to be a company
that’s lost its way,” said Leslie Berlin, project historian of
Silicon Valley Archives at  Stanford University . “The boardroom
fights, the job cuts -- it’s almost unrecognizable from the
Hewlett-Packard that was once the star attraction in the
Valley.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  