-- 
HP’s Whitman Says She’ll Keep Strategies Begun by Apotheker

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-23T22:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hewlett-packard-says-meg-whitman-will-succeed-apotheker-as-chief-executive.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  plans to stick by strategies set in motion
by her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , betting that investors prefer
steady leadership to another unsettling change of course.  Whitman, in her first interview as Hewlett-Packard’s CEO,
said the company stands by plans to acquire U.K. software marker
Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion. The company also will continue
to explore whether to sell or spin off the personal-computer
division, she said. Those moves were announced on Aug. 18.  “It does not signal a change in the strategy,” Whitman
said yesterday of her appointment. “We are behind the actions
that were taken on Aug. 18. We are firmly committed to
Autonomy.”  Whitman is hewing to those plans to avoid alienating
shareholders who were fed up with the about-faces that
characterized Apotheker’s reign. Still, Hewlett-Packard is
overpaying for Autonomy and it shouldn’t have announced a
possible PC unit sale without a concrete plan in place, said
Chris Whitmore, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  “We’re going to get more of the same from a Meg Whitman-
led HP as we did from a Leo-led HP,” said Whitmore, who is
based in  San Francisco  and has a “sell” rating on Hewlett-
Packard. “The board isn’t going to change the strategy and is
going to continue down this path, which frankly was the fear.”  Shares Fall  Hewlett-Packard’s shares fell 48 cents, or 2.1 percent, to
$22.32 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, hitting the
lowest price since May 2005. The stock had jumped 6.7 percent on
Sept. 21 after Bloomberg reported that Apotheker would be ousted,
evidence that shareholders were relieved to see his tenure end.  Apotheker, CEO for less than 11 months, was ousted
yesterday after cutting sales forecasts three times and making
strategy shifts that blindsided investors.  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard also said Chairman  Ray Lane 
will become executive chairman.  Whitman’s challenge will be boosting revenue while
assuaging the investors whose dismay fueled a 47 percent plunge
in Hewlett-Packard stock under Apotheker. She said the company
will decide the outcome of the PC business as soon as possible.  “We’ll make a decision as fast as we possibly can,” she
said in the interview. “We understand uncertainty doesn’t help
the business, doesn’t help customers, doesn’t help
shareholders.”  Ill-Equipped  Her experience at consumer-oriented companies such as  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  may leave her ill-
equipped to run Hewlett-Packard’s business-computing divisions,
said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. in San
Francisco.  “She’s going to be heavily scrutinized,” said Wu, who has
a “neutral” rating on the shares. “She doesn’t have the
background to turn around HP.”  An estimated 25 percent of Hewlett-Packard’s sales come
from consumers, Wu said. “What about the other 75 percent?”  Whitman defended her record at the helm of EBay.  “I have run a large company -- not obviously as large as
HP, but I have run a very large company,” she said. “While I
don’t have years of experience in an enterprise business, I
bought a lot of software. I was one of the largest enterprise
customers in Silicon Valley.”  Disparate Groups  “That’s like saying, ‘I’ve bought an iPhone, so I can run
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ” said Whitmore at Deutsche Bank.  Whitman will need to take Hewlett-Packard’s disparate
operating groups -- including data-center computing gear,
technology services, printers, and software -- and get them
working as a team, Lane said in the interview. He also lauded
Whitman’s ability to communicate company strategy.  “The market’s a little confused because we’re in so many
different businesses,” he said. “This is 90 percent about
leadership, communications and operating execution.”  Lane, who considered becoming the CEO himself, said
Hewlett-Packard executives weren’t working well under Apotheker.
To explain why the board picked an outsider, Lane said on a
conference call that internal managers “were not ready” to
become CEO.  Whitman, 55, is credited with helping build EBay into the
world’s largest Internet auctioneer, with a market value of
about $40 billion. She took the company public and built an
online storefront that helped thousands of small businesses
peddle their wares. Yet in her final years at EBay, she couldn’t
reverse a slowdown in sales growth and overpaid for Skype
Technologies SA after a bidding war with Google Inc. and Yahoo!
Inc. EBay later wrote down Skype’s value.  Pressure on Apotheker  Whitman joined Hewlett-Packard’s board in January after a
failed bid to become  California ’s governor last year. Before
EBay, Whitman worked as an executive at the toy company Hasbro,
the floral service FTD Inc., footwear maker Stride Rite Corp.
and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Hewlett-Packard had revenue of more than $126 billion in
the past fiscal year, almost 14 times the size of EBay’s sales.  “It’s not clear to me that someone who spent 30 years in
the consumer space is the right person for an enterprise
technology company,” said Dana Stalder, a partner at venture-
capital firm Matrix Partners in Palo Alto. Stalder worked under
Whitman for seven years at EBay.  Pressure on Apotheker intensified when in August he
announced the overhaul that included the Autonomy deal and
possible spinoff. He also killed off the company’s WebOS tablets
and smartphones, five months after vowing to put the operating
system on a full range of the company’s computers.  Hewlett-Packard Forecasts  Hewlett-Packard Chief Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak , who
served as interim CEO before Apotheker, said yesterday on a
conference call that the company was no longer confident in its
fourth-quarter sales guidance. Hewlett-Packard is sticking by
its profit forecast, she said.  The company said in August that fourth-quarter revenue
would be $32.1 billion to $32.5 billion, with earnings of $1.12
to $1.16 a share, excluding some costs. According to Bloomberg
data, analysts are predicting sales of $32.2 billion and profit
of $1.14 for the period.  The board weighed whether to oust Apotheker for six to
eight weeks, Lane said in the interview.  Apotheker stands to receive cash severance of at least $7.2
million, a figure that could be higher if his annual bonus was
set above the minimum $2.4 million laid out in the employment
agreement. Including his $1.1 million in salary received for the
first year, along with a $4 million cash signing bonus and a
$4.6 million relocation payment, Apotheker will have earned
about $34.7 million in cash and stock for less than a year’s
work.  ‘Investors Wound Up’  “Not bad for a short-term job, unless you’re a HP
shareholder,” said Brian Foley, a  compensation consultant  in
 White Plains ,  New York . “This is yet another ex-CEO of Hewlett-
Packard who does very well despite the circumstances.”  Apotheker joined Hewlett-Packard after  Mark Hurd  departed
as CEO amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a
company contractor. Hurd now is a co-president at Oracle.  A steady hand may be just what Hewlett-Packard needs, said
 Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  “The board is directionally behind the plan Apotheker’s
put in place,” Noland said. “It’s just the execution of that
plan that has investors wound up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 