-- 
Hewlett-Packard Director Senequier Will Depart Amid Turmoil Over Strategy

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 
2011-09-22T16:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hewlett-packard-director-senequier-will-depart-amid-turmoil-over-strategy.html
Dominique Senequier plans to leave
Hewlett-Packard’s board in March, the company said in a
regulatory filing.  Hewlett-Packard disclosed her departure on page 93 of a
Sept. 9  filing , without making a separate announcement.
Senequier, who is chief executive officer of Axa Private Equity,
the investment buyout arm of French insurer  AXA SA (CS) , notified the
board on Sept. 8 that she planned to leave after the annual
meeting set for March, according to the filing.  The board, which is meeting today, may decide to replace
Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  following investor
frustration over three sales-forecast cuts and jarring strategy
shifts, according to two people familiar with the matter.  They may appoint Hewlett-Packard director and former EBay
Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman  as Apotheker’s successor, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the plans aren’t public.  The 13-member board is also reconsidering a proposal to
spin off the company’s personal-computer unit, another person
said.  “Dominique Senequier has decided not to stand for re-
election to the HP board at HP’s next annual meeting of
stockholders in order to devote more time to her other
professional commitments,” Hewlett-Packard said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Fully Support HP’  Senequier said in the statement that she continued “to
fully support HP and its board of directors.”  Hewlett-Packard announced Senequier would join the board on
Jan. 20, along with four other new members. She has ties to
Apotheker, who formerly sat on AXA’s supervisory board.
Senequier and Apotheker also both sit on the supervisory board
of Schneider Electric SA, the world’s largest maker of circuit
breakers.  Pressure on Hewlett-Packard’s board and on Apotheker
intensified on Aug. 18 when the company announced a sweeping
overhaul that included a $10.3 billion acquisition of Autonomy
Corp. and the possible PC spinoff. The company also said it
would discontinue tablets and smartphones running WebOS
software, just five months after Apotheker vowed to put the
operating system on a full range products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 Chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  