-- 
Facebook Unveils Tools for Sharing Music

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-22T22:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/facebook-unveils-tools-for-sharing-music.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  unveiled new ways for members to use the
social network to share music, movies, TV shows, news and
activities such as cooking and exercising.  Zuckerberg, speaking at the F8 developers conference in San
Francisco today, said the features will include partners such as
Spotify Inc., Hulu LLC and Rdio Inc. The service will let users
see the history of songs played and listen together, he said.  “Being able to click on someone’s music and play it is a
great experience,” Zuckerberg said. “Knowing that you helped a
friend discover something new and that they liked your taste in
music and that you have that in common is awesome.”  Facebook, owner of the most popular social-networking
service, is beefing up its features to entice users to spend
more time on the site. It’s chasing Apple Inc. and Google Inc.,
which also offer video and music services. The additions may
make Facebook more of a destination for entertainment, said
Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner Inc.  “They’re looking to expand this beyond the social network
into a core platform tying together all of user experiences,”
Gartenberg said. “It’s now about your music, your movies and
what you’re reading. It’s the ability to share more information
and to do it in a streamlined manner and to make sure that
people are spending more time on Facebook.”  Timeline Feature  Zuckerberg introduced a new version of Profile pages that
will let users display images and highlight which posts are
important while integrating the new applications. The Timeline
can show photos, past songs that have been played and
locations, he said. Timeline will work on personal computers as
well as mobile devices, he said.  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook is aiming to prevent
Web surfers from flocking to competing social networks including
Google+, which had about 29 million users at the end of July.
The updates are likely to keep users and business partners
loyal, said Sean Corcoran, analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  “These changes not only help trump rival Google, but will
open up new opportunities for marketers with new kinds of
customer experiences, long term engagement, advertising, and
customer intelligence,” Corcoran said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook also is incorporating new applications that will
display content from providers such as  News Corp ., Gannett Co.’s
USA Today and Yahoo! Inc.  In the Loop  The new applications will let users display activities and
preferences in media such as music, TV shows and movies. Sharing
these updates will be fast and easy, said Vijay Ravindran, chief
digital officer at newspaper publisher Washington Post Co.,
which is offering a social reading application using the new
tools.  “Once they’ve opted into the application, they don’t have
to push buttons to tell people” what articles they are reading
in the newspaper, Ravindran said. “As they are reading, their
friends are able to see things they are reading.”  The other partners for the new applications include  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  for sharing videos. Reed Hastings, Netflix CEO, said on the
stage at F8 that the service won’t be initially available in the
U.S. because of privacy laws.  Media companies partnering with Facebook may soon find
themselves in competition with the social site, said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst with EMarketer Inc. in  Seattle .  “There is going to be increased competition for the media
companies who want people to come to their own websites to view
video or read news or watch movies, download music,” Williamson
said. “It is kind of a double-edge sword.”  The so-called lifestyle applications will let people share
information about activities such as jogging or cooking. Nike
Inc. and  Foodspotting  are also partners.  Zuckerberg also announced a new way for users to signal
they “like” something on the Web. The company is adding
buttons to the site to let users show they have “reviewed” or
“watched” something, for example.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  