-- 
Facebook May Struggle to Match Apple, Google in Entertainment

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/facebook-may-struggle-to-match-apple-google-in-entertainment.html
Facebook Inc., expected to unveil
services for sharing online music and videos today, may struggle
to narrow  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lead in the market for
digital entertainment.  The company is likely to announce at the F8 developers
conference that its users will be able to incorporate online
music services including Spotify Ltd. and Rdio Inc. on their
home pages, said people with knowledge of the plans last month.
Movies and television shows also are likely to be part of the
company’s announcements, said Lou Kerner, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  New York .  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is bulking up the
social network’s features beyond status updates and photo
tagging to make the site more attractive to users and the
advertisers keen to reach them. Facebook is playing catch-up
with Apple, owner of iTunes, and Google, which offers video and
music services.  “It’s going to be an uphill battle,” said Sean Corcoran,
an analyst with  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , noting it’s not clear what the competition will
be until the company names potential partners. “But they have
the one thing that others don’t have: Many, many people’s social
graphs sitting there to leverage.”  More Face Time  Facebook has more than 750 million users, up from 500
million in July 2010. Visitors to Facebook spent an average of
more than seven hours on the site during August in the U.S., the
most of any service, according to Reston, Virginia-based
 ComScore Inc.  That’s up from less than five hours in the year-
ago period.  “Anything that Facebook does from here on out is making
sure these people don’t want to spend less time on Facebook,”
said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at EMarketer Inc.  Facebook, at today’s conference in San Francisco, is due to
outline efforts aimed at expanding existing entertainment
services. Miramax is offering movies such as “Good Will
Hunting” and “No Country for Old Men,” while  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . has begun offering rental of “The  Dark
Knight ” on the website. Both are using Facebook Credits, a
virtual-currency program that lets users buy items in
applications.  Other media services that use Facebook features on their
sites include Pandora Inc., Spotify and Rdio.  Rivals Entrenched  Still, Facebook’s new media efforts will push it into more
competition with large rivals.  Apple’s ITunes has remained the most-used online digital
music service, facing down efforts by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and more recently Google. Google’s YouTube, the No.
1 video site in the U.S., has expanded into the movie-rentals
business, challenging Netflix Inc.  Facebook users are more accustomed to posting photos or
checking status updates than using the service for music or
watching movies, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner
Inc.  “It’s a challenge because others are entrenched,”
Gartenberg said. “It’s a challenge because Facebook isn’t a
place I normally think of going to for those services.”  At the same time, Facebook must be careful not to make the
site too complex or frustrate users with so many tools, said
 Greg Sterling , an analyst with Opus Research Inc. in  San
Francisco .  Beware of Clutter  “The challenge for Facebook is to integrate all these
things elegantly without having all this feature creep,” he
said. “The more cluttered and noisy that Facebook gets, the
more problems I think they have over time.”  The company has rolled out new features in the past few
months after Google unveiled its latest challenge in the social-
networking market, Google+, he said. The service, which was
started in late June, had reached 29 million users by the end of
July, according to ComScore.  Last month, the company said it was closing its daily-deal
service, which competed with Groupon Inc., after a four-month
test.  “Facebook can’t simply think it’s going to build some site
that features music or movies, and everyone is going to suddenly
show up and use it,” Sterling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  