-- 
Falkland Oil Delays Drilling, May Sell Stock If Well Successful, CEO Says

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-22T16:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/falkland-oil-delays-drilling-at-loligo-may-sell-shares-in-2012-ceo-says.html
Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , a U.K.-
based explorer in the South Atlantic, delayed the start of
drilling at its Loligo well and may sell stock late 2012 if the
well is successful, Chief Executive Officer Tim Bushell said.  The company will probably start drilling the first well at
Loligo, southeast of the Falkland Islands, in April instead of
the first quarter as it expects to receive the Leiv Eiriksson
rig more than a month later than planned, Bushell said today.  Loligo, located to the east of the islands  Margaret
Thatcher  went to war to keep British in 1982, holds as much as 5
billion barrels, Bushell said.  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR) 
will drill two wells early next year before passing the rig to
Falkland Oil, while  Rockhopper Exploration Plc. (RKH)  has made the
first commercial find near the disputed islands off  Argentina .  “We’ve waited seven years” since the company was founded
in 2004, said  Richard Rose , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.
in  London . “So we can afford to wait a bit longer. The
prospects are clearly exciting, they are high risk, very large.
We’ll see what happens. They’re ready to drill.”  Falkland Oil fell 4.7 percent to 55.25 pence as of the 4:30
p.m. London close. The shares have dropped 47 percent this year.  The company may sell more stock later in 2012 to raise
funds for seismic tests if it discovers hydrocarbons, Bushell
said. Falkland Oil is also in talks with potential partners to
share the cost of drilling a second well, he said, declining to
identify companies by name.  Well Funding  Falkland Oil has $160 million of available funds, enough to
drill two wells. The company wants to invest in 3D seismic
tests, which cost about $100 million for a large survey and
would be about $50 million to $60 million for Loligo, he said.
The company aims to drill further wells in 2013 depending on the
success of next year’s program, he said.  “I’d be most surprised if all four wells come up
completely blank,” Bushell said. The rig is contracted to drill
two wells for Borders & Southern, two for Falkland Oil, and a
fifth well that both companies have the option to drill.  Falkland Oil failed to find hydrocarbons after drilling its
first well, Toroa, in July 2010. Loligo, named after a type of
Patagonian squid, is one of the prospects in Falkland Oil’s
acreage, which is as vast as the U.K.  North Sea , Bushell said.  Scotia, Vincent, Nimrod  Depending on Loligo’s exploration results, Falkland Oil
plans to drill either Scotia, which may hold about 1 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, Vincent, which may have about 733
million barrels, or Nimrod, with 1.5 billion barrels, Bushell
said. To be commercially viable, the wells need to contain 200
million barrels of oil equivalent, he said.  The Leiv Eiriksson, owned by Ocean Rig ASA, is currently
drilling for  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  in Greenland. The contract has
been extended to the end of November, and the rig should arrive
in the Falklands by early January, when it will be used by
Borders & Southern, Bushell said.  Argos Resources Ltd. (ARG)  and  Desire Petroleum Plc (DES)  and are also
exploring near the Falklands. Argentina claims sovereignty over
the area and is protesting the drilling by forbidding vessels to
load cargo at its ports. The Falkland Islands has said no
Argentine company will be given a license.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  