-- 
Fed Study Says Mortgage Refi Level ‘Appears Low’ Given Rates

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-09-22T17:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/fed-study-says-mortgage-refi-level-appears-low-given-rates-1-.html
The  Federal Reserve  said mortgage
refinancing activity in 2009 and 2010 “appears low” given the
decline in rates for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages over that
time.  Fed researchers also found that blacks and Hispanics “had
notably higher gross denial rates than non-Hispanic whites” on
mortgage applications.  The study released today highlights the obstacles Fed
officials face as monetary policy is impeded by tightened
lending standards and weak  home prices . The Federal Open Market
Committee yesterday decided to shift the maturity of the Fed’s
portfolio toward longer-term Treasuries in an effort to keep
further downward pressure on interest rates.  “Overall refinance activity in both 2009 and 2010 appears
low compared with what might have been expected given the sharp
decline in interest rates,” the Fed said in the study.  The average  interest rate  on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
fell to a low of 4.17 percent in November last year from an
average rate of 5.09 percent in the first week of January 2010,
according to  Freddie Mac . The rate now stands at 4.09 percent, a
record low.  U.S. house prices rose 0.8 percent from June to July, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  said today. For the 12 months
ending July, prices fell 3.3 percent, and the agency’s house
price index is 18.4 percent below its April 2007 peak.  Finances Undermined  “One explanation for subdued refinance activity is that
lenders may be less willing or less able to take risk than
earlier in the decade,” the Fed said. “Subdued refinance
activity may also stem from the fact that the financial standing
of many borrowers has been undermined by sharp house price
declines.”  The study also found that blacks and Hispanics were turned
down for loans at a higher rate than non-Hispanic whites. Denial
rates on conventional home-purchase loans were about 31 percent
for blacks, 23 percent for Hispanics, 14.4 percent for Asians,
and 12.3 percent for white borrowers, the Fed said.  Controlling for “borrower-related factors” in the data
reduces the disparity in credit access. Still, “unexplained
differences remain between non-Hispanic whites and other racial
and ethnic groups,” the Fed said.  The study was based on data reported by more than 7,900
home lenders under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  