-- 
Fed’s Shift to Longer-Term Assets May Highlight Limits to Its Policy Power

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T20:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/fed-shift-to-long-term-assets-may-highlight-limits-to-its-power.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s effort to
reduce borrowing costs with an unconventional policy tool may
also be highlighting limits to its power to fix what ails the
 U.S. economy .  Investors sought safer assets for a second day after the
Fed announced it would shift $400 billion of its Treasury
securities holdings into longer-term debt. Treasury 30-year
bonds rallied, sending yields to the lowest level in almost
three years, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  suffered its
biggest two-day loss since December 2008.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making colleagues
yesterday cited “significant downside risks” to the outlook
and responded with a program that economists say will provide at
most a small boost to the recovery. The Fed should instead put
more pressure on fiscal authorities to revive growth and outline
a clear policy strategy, including setting a target for
inflation, said Greg Hess, a former Fed researcher.  “The Fed needs to be answering questions, or providing
confidence out there that answers questions, not just creating
new ones,” said Hess, a professor and faculty dean at  Claremont
McKenna College  in Claremont, California. “That’s why I think
the response is negative and that’s why you’re seeing volatility
rise.”  Yields on 30-year Treasuries declined to 2.8 percent at
4:22 p.m. in New York from 3.2 percent on Sept. 20. Stocks
tumbled, with the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index falling 3.2
percent in New York to 1,129.56, following a 2.9 percent drop
yesterday. The Dow lost 3.5 percent to 10,733.83.  Strengthen Economy  That contrasts with the reaction to the second round of
quantitative easing, when the  S&P 500  rose 24 percent from the
day Bernanke first signaled the policy in August 2010 to its
conclusion in June. The rise in equities helped strengthen the
economy, said  Jerry Webman , chief economist at OppenheimerFunds
Inc. in New York with $177 billion in assets under management.  “It would be helpful if someone would lay out exactly the
economic mechanism that gets us from yet lower interest rates to
actual economic activity,” Webman said. “Tell us why this is
supposed to work because we’re missing something here. The
market is obviously missing something here.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
benchmark measure of stock volatility known as the VIX, jumped
13.2 percent to 42.26 at 3:53 p.m. in New York, bringing its
four-day increase to 36 percent.  “The downside risks stem from situations such as  Europe ,
the tax law and so forth,” said former St. Louis Fed President
 William Poole . “The Fed can’t offset those. It is not within
the realm of monetary policy.”  Entire Speech  Bernanke should instead devote an entire speech to other
issues that are holding back the recovery, such as tax policy
and regulations, and make clear that the Fed is powerless to
deal with them, Poole said.  “For the Fed to be doing these things that are extremely
unlikely to have much current impact, it damages the Fed’s
credibility,” Poole, a senior fellow with the  Cato Institute  in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Fed’s
meeting had low expectations for the action dubbed Operation
Twist, with 61 percent saying the move would probably fail to
reduce the 9.1 percent unemployment rate. Among those, 15
percent predicted it would be “somewhat harmful.” None of the
42 economists in the survey said the move would be “very
effective.”  Home Loans  The central bank posted answers to “ frequently asked
questions ” on its website, saying that the program should help
lower costs for home loans, corporate bonds and other consumer
and business lending. The plan “will provide additional
stimulus to support the economic recovery but the effect is
difficult to estimate precisely,” the Fed said.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in debt from
December 2008 through June in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing aimed at lowering borrowing costs for
companies and consumers with the benchmark  interest rate  already
at zero. The central bank lowered its target interest rate to
zero, also in December 2008, and in August it pledged to hold
the rate there through mid-2013.  With “Operation Twist” the Fed stopped short of some
monetary policy options such as a third round of quantitative
easing, a move seen as unlikely this year by 79 percent of
economists in the Sept. 14-16 Bloomberg survey. Another option
for the central bank comes from Chicago Fed President  Charles
Evans  who supports tolerating a higher rate of inflation until
unemployment falls below 7.5 percent.  Low Rates  Separately, the Fed released a study today showing that low
 mortgage rates  in 2009 and 2010 did not lead to as much home
refinancing as anticipated, underscoring the difficulty in
spurring economic growth through interest rate reductions.  The housing market remains “depressed” in the FOMC’s
words even after three years of low mortgage rates. New-home
sales fell for the third straight month in July to an annual
pace of 298,000, just above the record low pace of 278,000 sales
in August 2010. The national average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
is at 4.09 percent, the lowest on record in a Freddie Mac index.  The central bank probably has small expectations for the
policy,  Alan Blinder , a former Fed vice chairman, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television.  ‘Throwing Sticks’  Through Operation Twist, Bernanke is “throwing sticks and
stones and pea-shooters and BB guns and whatever he’s got at the
weak economy in the effort to make marginal improvements,” said
Blinder, a professor at Princeton University. “I don’t expect
any miracles from it and frankly neither do they.”  Bernanke may have more success in spurring growth by
signaling that interest rates will increase next year, which
would get more people to borrow money now, said  David Kelly , who
helps oversee $408 billion as chief market strategist for
JPMorgan Funds in  New York .  “The public realizes that the Fed’s action is completely
incapable of helping the economy out,” Kelly said of Operation
Twist. “ Ben Bernanke  is at least trying to do the right thing.
He just doesn’t know what the right thing is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberb.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  