-- 
Fed Twist Will Hurt Bank Profits, Southwest Securities Says

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-22T17:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/fed-s-twist-will-hurt-banks-profits-southwest-securities-says.html
The Federal Reserve’s latest
attempt to revive the economy will exacerbate problems for U.S.
banks by eating into already anemic profit margins, according to
 Mark Grant , a managing director at Southwest Securities Inc.  “It is a very poor move for the banking system,” Grant,
whose broker-dealer is based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , said
in an e-mail to clients today. “I think you can expect downward
pressure on bank earnings in the next several quarters.”  Bank stocks slid for a second day following the Fed’s
announcement yesterday. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of the 24 largest
U.S. lenders fell 5.5 percent yesterday and 2.9 percent as of
12:40 p.m.  The Fed plans to buy $400 billion in long-term debt while
selling shorter-term securities in an attempt to lower borrowing
costs for U.S. consumers and stimulate the sagging economy. The
move has been dubbed “Operation Twist” by economists and
analysts because policy makers are attempting to twist the yield
curve by reducing long-term rates, which are normally higher
than short-term rates.  Lower long-term rates can help consumers by reducing
mortgage costs and other borrowing rates. For banks, profit
margins on loans get smaller as the gap narrows between the
short-term rates lenders pay to fund their operations and the
long-term rates they charge on consumer loans, called the net
interest margin.  Lower Profit  The new policy is “sure to harm banks and the economy,”
said  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC in
Lutz, Florida. “These policies will lower bank profitability by
forcing their net interest margins down.”  Bank of America Corp., the largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
slid 28 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $6.10 a share as of 1:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, on top of
yesterday’s 7.5 percent tumble by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based firm. New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. fell 3.5 percent
to $29.29, adding to yesterday’s 5.9 percent decline.  Tad Rivelle, who oversees about $65 billion as head of
fixed-income investments at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc.,
said a flatter yield curve “can’t be a positive for bank
earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  