-- 
Fed ‘Operation Twist’ Will Lead to More Bond Buying, ING, Wells Fargo Say

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T07:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/fed-to-boost-bond-buying-program-ing-mitsubishi-socgen-say.html
The  Federal Reserve  will probably
increase the bond-buying program announced yesterday in coming
months, said companies including ING Groep NV, Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., and Wells Fargo LLC.  Policy makers plan to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt held by the central bank with longer-term Treasuries to cut
borrowing costs and spur economic growth, the Fed announced
yesterday. Traders call it “Operation Twist,” after a similar
action in 1961. Officials discussed the range of tools available
to promote a stronger recovery and will employ them as needed,
the Fed said in a statement.  The  U.S. economy  is faltering two years into its recovery
from the biggest slump since the Great Depression, raising
speculation the central bank will turn to a third round of
outright purchases, known as quantitative easing, to stem the
slowdown. Stocks tumbled worldwide after policy makers cut their
assessment of the world’s largest economy, warning of
“significant” risks.  “The Fed may be setting us up for November, a move toward
another, more aggressive quantitative easing,”  Tim Condon , head
of Asia research in Singapore at ING, the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, said today on Bloomberg Television.
“Between now and then, it’s going to be a rough patch for the
economy and for risky financial assets.”  The  S&P 500  slid 2.9 percent, the most since Aug. 18. It
has handed investors a 5.9 percent loss this year including
reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors seeking the relative safety of  U.S. debt  sent 10-
year Treasury yields to a record low of 1.8081 percent today.  Economic Risks  Fed warnings on the economy point to more bond purchases,
said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo
Advisors LLC. The company is unit of  Wells Fargo & Co ., a bank
based in  San Francisco  that does business with one in three
households in America, according to its  website .  “It wouldn’t surprise me to see QE3,” Wren said yesterday
on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed said yesterday.  Hideo Shimomura, the Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.
investor who forecast the Fed would snap up mortgage securities
when other analysts predicted the central bank would limit
buying to Treasuries, said policy makers will increase their
debt purchases as soon as their next meeting Nov. 2.  ‘No Limit’  “It will be a mixture of Treasuries and agencies,” said
Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $78.2 billion in
 Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank. “There’s no limit on
easing.”  The U.S. central bank said yesterday it will buy Treasuries
with maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less.  Officials also said they will reinvest maturing housing
debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries “to
help support conditions in mortgage markets.” Morgan Stanley,
one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade directly with
the Fed, called yesterday’s decision to target the securities a
“surprise move,” in a report.  Policy makers already purchased Treasuries in two rounds
since 2009, increasing the central bank’s balance sheet each
time, to cut borrowing costs. Traders call the programs QE1 and
QE2 after the strategy of quantitative easing, or pumping money
into the economy.  The central bank may introduce a third round of buying
early next year as U.S. inflation cools,  Alain Bokobza , head of
asset-allocation strategy at  Societe Generale , another primary
dealer, said at a press conference in Beijing today.  Global equity markets will remain weak for “days to come”
because investors are disappointed with a lack of full-scale
QE3, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  