-- 
Fed Signals It May Ease Policy Further Amid ‘Significant’ Risks to Outlook

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T09:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/fed-sees-significant-risks-to-economy.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
indicated they are willing to do more to keep the economy from
sliding into another recession as they made their second move in
as many months to reduce borrowing costs.  The central bank will extend the average maturities of the
Treasuries in its portfolio by purchasing $400 billion of long-
term debt while selling an equal amount of shorter-term
securities, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in Washington
after ending a two-day meeting yesterday.  “It’s a modest step,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at  Barclays Capital  and a former Fed economist. “This
is a way to start down the path of further easing, but they
would become more aggressive if they were convinced growth was
not going to improve.”  Treasury 30-year bonds surged in anticipation of central
bank purchases of longer-term debt. Stocks fell, pushing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down the most in a month, on the
Fed’s assessment that market turmoil caused by Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is taking a toll on the  U.S. economy .  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
FOMC said. “The Committee discussed the range of policy tools
available to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of price stability.”  Global Stocks Tumble  Stocks and commodities fell, Treasury 10-year yields
dropped to a record and the Dollar Index climbed to a seven-
month high.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index plunged as much as 3.8 percent
in Tokyo and Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 600 Index slumped 3.4
percent at 10:03 a.m. in  London . U.S. stock futures dropped,
signaling the world’s largest equity market may slide for a
fourth straight day. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  tumbled 2.9 percent
yesterday.  The Fed’s move, known as “Operation Twist” after a
similar action in 1961, drew three dissents for the second
meeting in a row, as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  struggled to find
consensus to help an economy beset by 9.1 percent unemployment
and prices that are 3.8 percent higher than a year ago, as
measured by the Consumer Price Index.  The Fed will probably increase the bond-buying program
announced yesterday in coming months, said companies including
ING Groep NV, Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. and Wells
Fargo LLC.  Rate Pledge  The Fed maintained its pledge made in August to hold its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero through the middle of 2013 so
long as unemployment stays high and the inflation outlook is
“subdued.” The target rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The central bank also announced a measure “to help support
conditions in the mortgage market” by reinvesting maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries.  Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac mortgage securities
that guide U.S. home-loan rates tumbled the most in more than
two years relative to Treasuries after the announcement.  “The Fed is trying to drive down  mortgage rates  to the
lowest possible level, to get people to refinance, get more
disposable income in people’s pockets,” said Michael Dueker,
chief economist for Russell Investments North America in
Seattle, with $161 billion in assets under management.  Inflation Outlook  The amount of Treasury debt to be sold represents about
three-fourths of Fed holdings of between three months and three
years. The program will extend the average maturity of the Fed’s
Treasury holdings to 100 months, or 8 1/3 years, by the end of
2012, from 75 months.  Inflation “appears to have moderated since earlier in the
year,” the Fed said, without citing a specific measure. The
Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and energy
costs, rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier,
accelerating from a 1 percent gain in March. At the same time,
retail gasoline prices have declined to an average of $3.57 a
gallon from $3.99 in May.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Charles Plosser  of the
Philadelphia Fed voted against the FOMC decision for a second
consecutive meeting. They “did not support additional policy
accommodation at this time,” the Fed statement said.  Republican Backlash  The Fed’s efforts to spur growth, including purchases of
$2.3 trillion in securities from December 2008 through June in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, have sparked a
backlash from Republican lawmakers.  House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky urged Bernanke in a letter
this week to refrain from additional monetary easing to avoid
“further harm” to the economy.  The criticism has extended to the Republican campaign for
the 2012 presidential nomination, with Texas Governor Rick Perry
saying Aug. 15 that Bernanke would be treated “pretty ugly down
in Texas” if he printed more money before the election.  The Fed’s System Open Market Account held $2.64 trillion in
securities as of Sept. 14, which included $1.65 trillion in
Treasury notes, bills and inflation-protected bonds and $995
billion of mortgage debt.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated a Fed program
to extend the duration of its Treasuries. Of 42 analysts
surveyed, 71 percent forecast such a move, even as 61 percent
said it would probably fail to reduce unemployment.  ‘Noticeable Impact’  “We saw a noticeable impact on longer-term securities,”
said  Ryan Sweet , senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania, who estimates the lower borrowing costs
may add 0.1 percentage point to gross domestic product in the
fourth quarter. “The Fed has to take strides to restore
confidence. The economy is really being held back by a crisis of
confidence.”  The Operation Twist from 1961, conducted with the Treasury
Department, got its name from Chubby Checker’s hit song, “The
Twist,” according to a report published March 14 by Eric Swanson, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco . That move lowered long-term Treasury yields by about
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, according to Swanson.  Some borrowing costs were already nearing record lows
before yesterday’s action.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries have been falling on concerns
global growth is flagging and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
will intensify. The rate fell to 1.86 percent yesterday from
this year’s high of 3.74 percent in February. The average rate
for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.09 percent last week, its
lowest level on record in a Freddie Mac index dating to 1972.  Joe Carson , director of global economic research at
AllianceBernstein LP in  New York , said consumers are likely to
see little relief in the form of lower costs to pay interest on
their debts, which are already at a 15-year low after falling by
$250 billion since the middle of 2007.  “It will have a very minor impact on activity because our
economy is not being hurt by high interest rates,” Carson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  