-- 
First Solar Falls on News Project Won’t Get Loan Guarantee

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-22T21:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/first-solar-in-talks-to-sell-topaz-project-won-t-get-guarantee.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest thin-film solar producer, fell 9.1 percent, the most in
almost two years, in New York trading after saying it’s in talks
to sell a 550-megawatt project that won’t receive a U.S.
government loan guarantee.  First Solar fell $6.67 to $66.85 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The drop was the biggest since October 2009 and
left shares of the company at their lowest in more than four
years.  The Topaz Solar Farm project in  California  won’t meet
requirements to get a $1.9 billion U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before the Sept. 30 deadline, the Tempe, Arizona-based
company said today in a statement. Ted Meyer, a company
spokesman, declined to say what requirements weren’t met.  Two other First Solar projects will receive loan
guarantees, said Jesse Pichel, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
 New York . The company will still be able to sell the Topaz
project “without the DOE loan guarantee,” Pichel said. The
company may have to accept a lower price for that project
without government backing, he said.  First Solar is in “advanced talks regarding the sale and
financing” of the project, according to the statement, which
didn’t name a buyer.  First Solar’s failure to secure a loan guarantee for the
Topaz Solar Farm will have a minimal effect on the company’s
earnings, Pichel said. He has a target price of $125 on the
shares and a “buy” rating.  Other Projects  There is a “high probability” that two other First Solar
projects will receive Energy Department loan guarantees before
the deadline, the company told Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an
analyst at Auriga USA LLC who wrote about it in a research note.
Meyer, the First Solar spokesman, declined to comment beyond the
company’s statement  First Solar currently has conditional commitments for a
$680 million guarantee for a 230-megawatt project and a $1.8
billion guarantee for a 550-megawatt project, according to the
Energy Department’s  website . The company received a $967 million
guarantee for a project in  Arizona  in August.  The Energy Department is working to close loan guarantees
before the end of the month, spokesman  Damien LaVera  said this
week. As much as $7.3 billion in loan guarantees to 13 renewable
energy projects have not yet closed, according to Bloomberg News
calculations and the Energy Department website.  Facing Scrutiny  The program came under congressional scrutiny after the
failure of a solar-panel maker it backed. Solyndra LLC filed for
bankruptcy earlier this month after receiving a $535 million
guarantee. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  later raided the
company’s headquarters. House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, said Solyndra’s
failure means the Energy Department should stop giving out loan
guarantees.  The political controversy might have contributed to First
Solar’s failure to get a loan guarantee, Polavarapu said.  “We suspect it is a victim of the political fallout
following Solyndra’s bankruptcy,” he wrote in the note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  