-- 
For-Profit Colleges Got $1 Billion in Veterans Benefits

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T20:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/for-profit-colleges-got-1-billion-in-vets-benefits-last-year.html
Eight for-profit colleges, led by
 Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix, collected about $1
billion in education benefits for U.S. veterans in the most
recent academic year, according to a Senate report.  Those colleges got about a quarter of the Post-9/11 GI Bill
education funds in the 2010-2011 year, Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa , chairman of the Senate education committee, said
today at a news conference in  Washington . The University of
Phoenix alone received $210 million, almost three times as much
as a year earlier, he said.  The so-called “90/10 rule” limits for-profit colleges to
getting no more than 90 percent of their revenue from the
government. Veterans’ and military tuition programs are excluded
from the cap, and the colleges have aggressively recruited
beneficiaries, Harkin said. Democratic Senator Thomas Carper of
 Delaware , who has suggested the cap might be expanded to include
those programs, led a hearing on the rule today.  “We have to try to see what we can do to get better
information to GI’s so they have a better information base,”
Harkin said. “They need to know what’s out there, instead of
just being sucked in by aggressive recruiting.”  Limiting veterans tuition funds that can go to for-profit
colleges would hurt students, Brian Moran, interim president of
the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities, a
Washington-based industry group, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Unwarranted Barrier’  “The 90/10 restriction does nothing to measure quality
outcomes and, by including military benefits in the 90 percent,
places an unwarranted barrier in the way of students seeking a
career-focused education,” Moran said.  Jon Elliot, a former U.S. Army staff sergeant who received
the Bronze Star for service in  Iraq , said he signed up for auto
mechanics classes at  ATI Career Training Center , based in North
Richland Hills,  Texas , after a recruiter told him Post-9/11 GI
Bill benefits would cover the costs. Months later, Elliot
discovered the program in Garland, Texas, wasn’t approved for
the benefits, and the school sent him a bill for $9,600, he said
at the news conference.  “These stories are coming in all the time,” Harkin said.
“The recruiting is just phenomenal and they’re doing it so they
can get by the 90/10 rule.”  Elliot said he got a telephone call yesterday from the
school, saying his tuition bill had been forgiven. “Maybe it’s
just coincidence,” he said. “I don’t want to speculate.”  ATI apologized for Elliot’s experience in a written
statement today, saying the situation should have been resolved
in a more timely manner.  Predators’ ‘Goldmine’  The veterans education program has been “a goldmine to
predatory for-profit institutions that have taken advantage of
the law,” said  John Rowan , president of the  Vietnam Veterans of
America , in an e-mailed statement today. There may be some
justification for including the education benefits under the
90/10 cap, Curtis Coy, Veterans Affairs deputy undersecretary
for economic opportunity, said in testimony prepared for the
hearing.  “Some institutions may be targeting veterans because the
federal education benefits they receive are treated the same way
as private funds in the 90/10 calculation,” Coy said. “VA
believes veterans should not be aggressively recruited by
institutions principally because of financial motives.”  Misinformed Vets  Veterans and their families are targets of “predatory” for-
profit colleges that use deceptive marketing practices to coax
students to enroll, said Ted Daywalt, chief executive officer of
 VetJobs , an employment clearinghouse sponsored by the U.S.
Veterans of Foreign Wars. He said VetJobs has seen many who were
misinformed about for-profit colleges’ accreditation status, the
transferability of credits, and the quality of programs.  “Not all for-profit schools are bad,” Daywalt said in
testimony prepared for the hearing. “But those that are bad are
very bad.”  Rather than expanding the 90/10 rule, Congress should do
away with it, Russell Kitchner, vice president for regulatory
and government relations at  American Public Education Inc. (APEI) , said
at the hearing. The  Charles Town , West Virginia-based company
got 61 percent of its revenue from U.S. military and veterans
programs in the year ended September 2010, according to Jarrel Price, an analyst at Height Analytics in Washington.  In order to comply with the 90/10 rule, for-profit colleges
frequently raise tuition above the level that students can get
from capped government sources, Kitchner said.  ‘Perverse Effect’  The rule “has the perverse effect of driving tuition up,
rather than focusing on making education more affordable for
students and reducing the burden on the American taxpayer,”
Kitchner said in written testimony.  The Education Department issued regulations this year
called “gainful employment” that would cut off federal student
aid to for-profit colleges whose students struggle the most to
repay government loans. Education companies also oppose those
rules and the association has filed a lawsuit against them.  Harkin and Carper said the regulations will protect
students and should be allowed to stand. Virginia Democratic
Senator  Jim Webb , a Vietnam War veteran who introduced the Post
9/11-GI Bill, said at the hearing that he’ll be watching to make
sure there is adequate monitoring of the program’s benefits.  The Defense Department increased oversight of online
courses this year after Harkin and Carper investigated program
quality and aggressive recruitment practices of active-duty
military members and veterans at for-profit colleges, which
frequently offer Web-based classes. About 22 percent of Apollo
Group’s 2010 spending was on marketing, Harkin said today.  Twice the Cost  The Post-9/11 GI Bill sent $4.4 billion to almost 6,000
institutions educating veterans who served since the Sept. 11,
2001 attacks in  New York  and Washington, Harkin said in a
statement. Veterans taking courses from for-profit colleges cost
taxpayers $10,900 a year, about twice as much as those in public
universities, where costs average about $4,900, according to the
statement.  ITT Educational Services Inc. (ESI) , second to Apollo in
receiving veterans’ education benefits, got $178 million in the
2010-2011 year, more than twice the $79 million of a year
earlier, the Senate report said.  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
subject of a U.S. investigation of recruitment practices, was
third with $173 million in program funds last year.  Apollo Group, based in Phoenix, fell $3.04, or 7 percent,
to $40.42 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Education Management, based in Pittsburgh, lost 1 cent
to $16. ITT Educational, based in Carmel,  Indiana , dropped
$1.93, or 3.2 percent, to $59.37.  The highest-ranking public college in program funds was the
University of  Maryland , with $51 million for the year. Its
 University of Maryland  University College provides classes on
military bases. Both public and for-profit colleges need to
improve their services for veterans, Carper said.  “We must focus on how we can fix problems within the
higher-education system by better incentivizing all schools to
deliver a higher quality education to our military and veteran
populations,” Carper said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  