-- 
Ford Wins Reversal of $43 Million Award in Fatal Crash Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-22T22:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ford-wins-reversal-of-43-million-award-in-2003-fatal-crash-case.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  won reversal of an
 Illinois  jury’s $43 million damage award holding the company
liable in a 2003 crash that killed a 73-year-old man and
severely burned his wife.  The Illinois Supreme Court today threw out the verdict from
a 2005 trial, ruling that Dora Jablonski and the estate of her
husband, John, failed to prove the placement of the gas tank in
their 1993 Lincoln Town Car constituted a defective design.  The Jablonskis car burst into flames after it was rear-
ended by another vehicle traveling from 55 to 65 miles an hour
while they were stopped at a highway construction zone in
southwest Illinois. The crash caused an item in the trunk to
pierce the tank.  “Plaintiffs presented insufficient evidence from which a
jury could conclude that Ford breached its duty of reasonable
care” on any one of three negligent design theories, the high
court  said . It rejected a fourth argument as not viable under
state law.  The trial at the state courthouse in Edwardsville spanned
11 days during which the jury heard both lay- and expert-witness
testimony and examined hundreds of exhibits, according to the
Supreme Court ruling written by Justice Mary Jane Theis.  Tank Location  The Jablonskis’ lawyer argued the location of the fuel
tank, behind the Lincoln’s rear axle, left it vulnerable in
rear-end collisions.  Ford maintained that the car’s design and tank location
complied with industry standards, and only the driver of the
other car had been negligent.  Bradley M. Lakin, the Wood River, Illinois, attorney who
took the case to trial, didn’t immediately reply to telephone
messages seeking comment on today’s ruling.  “Ford is gratified by the court’s decision,”  Marcey
Evans , a spokeswoman for the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker,
said in an e-mail.  “The 1993 Town Car exceeded all federal crash safety
standards,” she said. “While the Jablonskis were victims of a
tragic accident caused by a distracted driver who rear-ended
them at 60 miles per hour, it was unfair to blame Ford for their
injuries.”  Jablonski v. Ford Motor Co., Illinois Supreme Court,
2011IL110096 (Springfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  