-- 
Foreign Investors Increase ‘Land Grabs,’ Harming Poor Farmers, Oxfam Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-09-22T09:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/foreign-investor-land-grabs-harm-farmers-in-poorer-nations-oxfam-says.html
Foreign-investor purchases of
farmland in poorer nations are displacing local populations and
adding little to a country’s wealth, even as agricultural prices
increase, according to  Oxfam International .  As many as 227 million hectares (561 million acres) -- an
area one and a half times the size of  Alaska  -- have been sold
or leased since 2001, with most of the “land grabs” occurring
in the past two years, Oxfam said in a report released today.
With the consent of governments, weak legal codes allow the
purchase of large tracts with no regard for residents or the
environment, said Oxfam, which is based in Oxford, U.K.  “Large-scale demand for commodities is driving a lot of
these acquisitions,” Rohit Malpani, an adviser to Oxfam and an
investigator into land buys in South Sudan, said this week in a
telephone interview in  Washington . “There is an inequity of
power between investors and the local communities.”  Global food prices have increased 26 percent in the past
year, the  United Nations  says. The world’s population is
forecast to jump to 9.3 billion by 2050 from an estimated 6.9
billion in 2010, requiring a 70 percent increase in food
production, according to the UN. In February, when costs peaked,
the  World Bank  said the increased expense had pushed 44 million
people into “extreme poverty” in a little over half a year.  Higher returns on farmland and rising food prices are
luring investors in Africa, Latin America, the U.S. and parts of
 Europe , while China’s shrinking farmland and water resources are
pushing its companies to pour money overseas to secure supplies.  Soros, Ospraie  A fund controlled by George Soros, the billionaire hedge-
fund manager, owns 23 percent of South American farmland venture
Adecoagro SA. Hedge funds Ospraie Management LLC and Passport
Capital LLC as well as Harvard University’s endowment are also
betting on farming.  TIAA-CREF, the $466 billion financial services giant, has
$2 billion invested in some 600,000 acres (240,000 hectares) of
farmland in  Australia ,  Brazil  and  North America  and wants to
double the size of its investment.  China , the largest soybean and grain consumer, is poised to
boost investment in farming in  South America  as it seeks to
secure food supplies, Rabobank International said July 28. The
country has also targeted Africa and encouraged Chinese
agricultural businesses to expand overseas.  China has no plans to acquire large amounts of land
overseas, Hong Lei, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, said
today.  The Oxfam report, which details cases in South Sudan,
Uganda, Honduras, Guatemala and Indonesia, calls for
international organizations to condemn the purchases and help
develop and observe codes for ethical land-buying.  World Bank  It criticizes financial institutions such as the World Bank
and its private-sector finance arm, the International Finance
Corp., and companies including  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , based in  Kuala
Lumpur , for supporting land acquisitions, at least indirectly.  “Many of these investments, they’re not meant to improve
local food security,” Malpani said. “There has to be a balance
between international demands and local rights and
responsibilities.”  In the  Philippines , the government suspended in 2008 a plan
to lease 1.2 million hectares of farmland to Chinese companies
to grow rice, corn and sugar, after then Congresswoman Risa
Hontiveros-Baraquel filed a case with the  Supreme Court ,
questioning its legality.  In a case cited by Oxfam, a subsidiary of Sime Darby
acquired village land in Indonesia in 35-year leases in return
for promises of new housing, schools, a health clinic and water
facilities, most of which hasn’t materialized, said the aid
organization. The villagers have been blockading roads in
protest, Oxfam said.  Proper Channels  Sime Darby is going through proper channels and working
with villagers to improve their community in the company’s
plantations in Liberia and Indonesia, Chief Executive Officer
Mohd Bakke Salleh said.  “We’re creating economic activity in these areas, so to be
accused of land-grabbing is a bit harsh,” Mohd Bakke said in an
interview before the report was released. The company is
“working with the locals to improve on the facilities and
infrastructure of the area.”  The International Finance Corp. “is actively engaged” to
verify reports and information on land-buying practices to
ensure its ethical standards are being met, Desmond Dodd, a
spokesman for the organization’s sub-Saharan  Africa  office in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail before the report was released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 