-- 
Former Intel Chief Grove on How to Be a Mentor in Corporations

-- B y   J i m   A l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T21:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/former-intel-chief-grove-on-how-to-be-a-mentor-in-corporations.html
“Corporate mentoring programs are a
charade. The intent behind them is good, but like everything the
professionals get a hold of, they turn it into an incredibly
complex and counterproductive routine. I suspect the reason
these programs exist is so HR can beat you up and have something
they can brag about. The moment someone says ‘mentor’ or
‘mentee,’ I get waves of nausea,” Andy Grove, former chairman of
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , says in the Sept. 26 edition of Bloomberg
Businessweek.  “My problem is this: As a manager you are supposed to be a
resource. The principal job of somebody in management is to be a
resource to the people who work for you. That means setting
direction for them. It means kicking their asses if they lag.
But the most important thing is to teach them how to deal with
increasingly complex assignments, by letting them do the work
and watching them. There is also role-modeling, critiquing, and
on and on, all ending in -ing. All that is teaching. Some stuff
in companies can be made routine and machine-like. But teaching?
You routinize it, you screw it up.  At Intel, we had a job called technical assistants, or TAs,
who would work with senior executives. I had good experiences
with my TAs because I would look for people who could teach me
about some element I needed. In the 1980s I had a marketing
manager named Dennis Carter. I probably learned more from him
than anyone in my career. He is a genius. He taught me what
brands are. I had no idea -- I thought a brand was the name on
the box. He showed me the connection of brands to strategies.
Dennis went on to be chief marketing officer. He was the person
responsible for the Pentium name, “Intel Inside,” -- he came up
with all my good ideas.  Almost 10 years later, the Internet became a factor. My
knowledge of the Internet was almost nonexistent.  Sean Maloney 
was a network engineer who was comfortable with bandwidth and
communications. He worked with me for two years, and eventually
became executive vice-president. In the late 1990s, my TA was an
Internet applications guy, Mike Hoefflinger. I had him take me
to selected Internet companies so I could learn -- Google,
Amazon, all the e-commerce companies. He set up the visits and
brought me in, and on the way home he would explain what I’d
heard. What the TAs got from me was seasoning. So I pushed a
little. I beat them mercilessly -- verbally, of course. The
point wasn’t to teach them their job, but to teach them ... I
want to say manners. I don’t mean table manners, but how to
handle hurdles, explosions, any old mess. It must have done some
good.  Paul Otellini  became CEO of Intel. Renée James became
senior VP for software.  Did I mentor them? They taught me as much as I taught them.
So who is the mentor and who is the mentee? Is ‘mentee’ a real
word? I hate it.”  (Grove was chairman and chief executive at Intel.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  