-- 
Galleon Sentencing Scorecard: Average Prison Term Is 3 Years

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/galleon-insider-trading-case-scorecard-average-prison-term-is-three-years.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam will be sentenced on Oct. 13 for  insider trading 
after being convicted by a jury in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam, who was convicted in May,
should serve as long as 24 1/2 years in  prison , calling him the
“modern face of insider trading.” Yesterday, judges in
Manhattan sentenced two other convicted insider traders -- Zvi
Goffer and Winifred Jiau -- to prison terms of 10 years and four
years, respectively.  Since Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, judges in
 Manhattan federal court  have sentenced 12 defendants in cases
linked to Galleon. All but two pleaded guilty. The average
prison term has been 35.75 months, or almost three years behind
bars.  The cases are as follows:  Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group trader, was sentenced to
10 years in prison, after jurors in June convicted him of
leading an insider-trading ring. He hasn’t reported to prison.  Winifred Jiau, who worked as a consultant at Primary Global
Research LLC, was convicted at a trial in June of passing
earnings and other information about companies including Nvidia
Corp. She was sentenced to four years and is jailed at the
Metropolitan Correctional Center in  New York .  Danielle Chiesi, who was an analyst at New Castle Funds
LLC, pleaded guilty to passing inside stock tips to Rajaratnam
and others and trading on them. She was sentenced to 2 1/2 years
and begins her sentence on Oct. 18.  Ali Hariri, a former Atheros Communications Inc. vice
president, was sentenced to 18 months for leaking information on
the company’s forecast cut for the fourth quarter of 2008. He
served his time in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in  San
Diego .  Robert Moffat , a former executive with International
Business Machines Corp., leaked inside information about IBM and
Lenovo Group Ltd. to Chiesi. He was sentenced to six months in
prison and has been released from the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn.  Mark Kurland , the co-founder of New Castle Funds and
Chiesi’s boss, was sentenced to two years and three months after
admitting that he used inside information to trade in  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Akamai Technologies Inc. and other
companies. Kurland is in a prison in Otisville, New York.  Craig Drimal, a trader who worked at Galleon’s offices, was
sentenced to 5 1/2 years after admitting that he traded on
inside tips obtained from lawyers working on the transactions.
Drimal hasn’t yet surrendered to prison.  Arthur Cutillo, a former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyer, admitted
to disclosing information on transactions the firm was working
on to co-defendant Jason Goldfarb, in exchange for kickbacks. He
was sentenced to 2 1/2 years. Cutillo hasn’t yet surrendered.  Jason Goldfarb, a lawyer in  Brooklyn , New York, was
sentenced to three years in prison for passing inside tips he
got from Cutillo and another lawyer at Ropes & Gray. Goldfarb
hasn’t yet surrendered.  Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, received a sentence of 2 1/2 years for
trading and trafficking with colleagues on inside information.
Longueuil hasn’t yet surrendered.  Don Ching Trang Chu, a former consultant at Primary Global
Research LLC, an expert-networking firm, was sentenced to
probation for passing confidential tips to the firm’s hedge fund
clients. The judge said jail wasn’t warranted because of his
minimal role in the scheme.  Manosha Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. manager, was sentenced to 18 months in prison
for accepting about $35,000 to pass inside tips about the
company’s orders while also working as a consultant for Primary
Global Research LLC. Karunatilaka hasn’t yet surrendered.  * *  Typically, those convicted at a trial get longer prison
terms than those pleading guilty. In addition to the two Galleon
defendants who took their cases to a jury,  Manhattan  judges
since 2003 have imposed sentences in three other cases where the
main charge was insider trading and a jury returned a guilty
verdict.  The average sentence has been six years and two months.  In non-Galleon cases, former Credit Suisse Group banker
Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem got 10 years, ex-Jefferies Paragon
Fund money manager Joseph Contorinis was sentenced to six years,
and former Ernst & Young partner James Gansman was sentenced to
one year.  About two dozen others are waiting to be sentenced in the
Galleon cases. They include Emanuel Goffer, a former trader and
brother of Zvi Goffer, who was convicted at a trial, and  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co. executive who pleaded guilty and
testified against Rajaratnam in a bid for leniency.  The Rajaratnam case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 