-- 
Geithner Predicts Europe Will Act With ‘More Force’ to Resolve Debt Crisis

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-22T15:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/geithner-predicts-europe-will-act-with-more-force-to-resolve-debt-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe will act “with more force” to combat a
sovereign-debt crisis that is threatening global growth.  “You are going to see them act with more force in the
coming weeks and months,” Geithner said at a National Journal
event in  Washington  today. “It’s a difficult challenge to do
because it’s not just about financial support.”  Geithner spoke as finance ministers and central bankers
from the Group of 20 nations gather in Washington for the annual
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank ,
where the European crisis will be a focus. He said European
countries will do what is necessary to address the debt crisis
and they, along with the IMF, have the capacity to meet the
challenge.  In an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television, IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said European governments
must implement the programs they have agreed to fight the crisis
and called on the  European Central Bank  to keep providing
“solid, reliable” funding for countries and banks. She
cautioned investors keen to see policy makers introduce new
tools to “allow the time for democracy” to operate.”  The Greek government said today it will accelerate budget
cuts to keep emergency loans flowing, extending austerity
measures that have deepened a recession and failed to ease
doubts that it can avoid default. The latest round of deficit
fighting was demanded by international lenders to ensure  Greece 
reaches targets in a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout and
receive a payment due next month.  ‘Years and Years’  For  Europe , Geithner predicted “years and years of
difficult financial pressure on those governments that were just
living way beyond their means for a long period of time and have
terrible growth prospects.”  “That’s just going to be a long challenge,” he said.
“But they need this broader firewall in place to make sure
Europe is protected from that inevitable set of pressures.”  Also speaking in Washington, Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
world is on the eve of its next financial crisis with sovereign
debt at its epicenter. The ECB has yet to create a “circuit
breaker” to contain its region’s turmoil, he said.  Geithner, who has traveled to Europe in each of the last
two weekends for talks with counterparts, said European
countries are using the Washington-based  IMF  “for a
transitional role” because it is a “mutual arbiter of the
economics of reform both in designing and monitoring the
compliance of those things,” adding, “this is an enormously
consequential endeavor.”  ‘Clouds’ Over U.S.  He said two “clouds” over the U.S. are the European
crisis and the “deep concern you can see across the world and
around the country about whether the political system in the
 United States  is up to the challenges we face.” Geithner added
that Europe’s crisis is “bigger than Greece because what Europe
is trying to do is build the fiscal budget and financial
complements” to the region’s monetary union.”  “There’s a broader recognition that without those broader
fiscal and financial complements, their framework is not going
to work,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  