-- 
Ghana’s Economy Expanded 34% in Second Quarter on Oil Output

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-09-22T18:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ghana-s-economy-expanded-34-in-second-quarter-on-oil-output-1-.html
Ghana ’s economic growth soared to
34 percent in the second quarter, boosted by oil output in
 Africa ’s newest exporter of crude.  Growth accelerated from a revised 31 percent in the first
three months of the year,  Grace Bediako , head of the Ghana
Statistical Service, told reporters in the capital, Accra,
today. The median estimate of four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the economy to expand 20.3 percent. The total
value of goods and services in the second quarter was valued at
7.9 billion cedis ($5 billion), according to Bediako.  The expansion was “led by the mining and quarrying sub-
sector, of which oil accounts for 67 percent,” Bediako said.  Ghana began production of oil from its offshore Jubilee
field in December, with output expected to climb to 120,000
barrels a day by the end of the year from 80,000 barrels
currently, according to the field’s operator, London-based
 Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)   The West African nation is the world’s second-biggest cocoa
producer after  Ivory Coast  and the continent’s No. 2 gold miner
after  South Africa . Ghana’s economy, which grew 7.7 percent in
2010, may expand 20 percent this year, Dante Mossi, senior
operations officer with the  World Bank  in Accra, said Sept. 9.  More Than Quadrupled  The mining and quarrying group more than quadrupled in the
period, the statistics agency said, without providing figures.
That sector is part of the overall industry grouping, which grew
84 percent to 2.2 billion cedis, it said. Agricultural crops,
including cocoa, expanded 78 percent in the second quarter, up
from 31 percent the quarter before.  Compared with the previous quarter, gross domestic product
expanded an adjusted 3.4 percent in the three months through
June, the statistics office said. On a seasonally unadjusted
basis the economy grew 33.5 percent.  Local businesses may not feel much impact from oil-driven
growth, since many lack the ability, including the capital and
expertise, to exploit opportunities in the  energy industry , said
Sydney Casely-Hayford, an independent economic analyst who has
conducted research for Ghana’s Finance Ministry and Parliament.  “Expansion remains at the macro level,” he said by phone
today. The growth “has not translated into  job creation  at the
micro level.”  The pace of expansion does “vindicate the central bank’s
decision this month to maintain its policy lending rate,” Nii
Ampa-Sowah, head of research at Accra-based  Databank Financial
Services Ltd. , said by phone. “The bank will likely maintain
the rate again at its next meeting as pricing trends tick up a
little.”  The central bank left the key lending rate unchanged at
12.5 percent on Sept. 1, following two straight cuts from 13.5
percent.  Ghana ’s currency, the cedi, was little changed at 1.
1.5724 per dollar by 5:33 p.m. in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  