-- 
Gillard Reduced to Sex Under Aussie Flag Shows Nation’s ‘Blokey’ Culture

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-22T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/gillard-reduced-to-sex-under-flag-shows-nation-s-blokey-culture.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , depicted lying naked under the nation’s flag after
having sex in her office with her hairdresser boyfriend, is
interrupted by a colleague who is knocking at the door.  The fictional Gillard in the national broadcaster’s “ At
Home With Julia ” television comedy is finding respect hard to
come by, much like her real-life counterpart, whose support has
fallen by half since she became  Australia ’s first female prime
minister 15 months ago. The plunge in the polls and the parody
of Gillard’s private life have reignited a debate on chauvinism
in a country that, 116 years after granting women the vote, has
only one female chief executive officer of its 30 biggest
companies.  “We’ve come a long way in gender equity, but there are
significant pockets of change still needed,” said Catharine
Lumby, a feminist author and director of the Journalism and
Media Research Centre at Sydney’s University of New South Wales.
“The corporate sector is a holdout and it’s disgraceful.”  From the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s board, where men have
outnumbered women 57 to three, to corporate directorships, women
still struggle for influence in Australia, which fielded its
first female political candidate in 1897, decades before most
Western nations granted universal suffrage. The failure to use
this “hidden resource” is costing the A$1.3 trillion ($1.3
trillion) economy as much as 13 percent in lost annual
production, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists estimate.  Earning Less  Australia ranked 44th for the proportion of women in the
workforce, according to the  World Economic Forum’s Global Gender
Gap report  last year. The average weekly wage for women in
Australia in the three months ended May was A$1,150, 18 percent
less than the A$1,398 for men. In the U.S., women who usually
worked full time had median weekly earnings of $689 in the
second quarter, 16.5 percent less than the $825 median for men.  Australia, a former prison colony and outpost of the
British Empire, developed a reputation for tough outback men
typified by Paul Hogan’s reptile-wrestling hero of the 1986
movie “Crocodile Dundee.” Critics such as Lumby say the
Australian creed of “mateship” -- male friendship that
typically excludes women -- is partly to blame for the imbalance
of women in the workforce.  “I’ve always thought the Australian culture is blokey,”
Gillard, 49, said in an interview with Bloomberg News last week.
“It’s not acceptable to me in the modern age that we can look
at boards of major corporations and not see one woman.”  Male Club  At 8.4 percent, Australia’s female board representation
lagged behind major English-speaking nations, according to a
2010 census of women in S&P/ASX 200 Index companies by the  Equal
Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency  in Sydney. That
was almost half  South Africa ’s 16.6 percent, and behind the
U.S.’s 15.2 percent,  Canada ’s 14 percent, the U.K.’s 9 percent
and  New Zealand ’s 8.7 percent. Australia had a lower proportion
of women in executive management than the U.K., Canada, U.S, and
South Africa, the study found.  Critics include Quentin Bryce, the country’s first female
governor general, the de facto head of state. Like Gillard, the
68-year-old Bryce has been parodied by state-owned Australian
Broadcasting Corp. -- in the comedy show “Chaser’s War on
Everything” in 2009.  The sketch highlighted Bryce’s inability to take up the
traditional honorary membership of the men-only Melbourne Club,
with members being asked for donations to pay for her to have a
sex change. After a life-sized replica doll is tossed over the
club’s back wall at the end of the skit, comedian Julian Morrow
declares: “That is a victory for women everywhere.”  Bryce said on the eve of International Women’s Day on March
8 this year that companies should meet quotas of women in the
workforce and management.  World Bank  Quotas  Ana Revenga, Washington-based co-author of the World Bank’s
‘World Development Report 2012: Gender Equality and Development’
released on Sept. 18, said the bank also supports the idea of
quotas to get female representation to at least 30 percent.
“You have to change beliefs and if the belief is women don’t
make effective board members, then one way to break it is to
have a quota,” she said.  Revenga said employing more women in Australia could lift
output per worker by 4 percent to 8 percent.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s Gail Kelly, the sole female CEO in
Australia’s top 30 companies by market value, argued last week
against board quotas and in favor of the “name and shame”
approach taken by Australia’s stock exchange. Under new rules
this year, the ASX requires companies to set and report targets
for gender diversity at board and senior management level.  More Women  The Australian Institute of Company Directors says the
proportion of women on boards of S&P/ASX 200 Index companies
rose to 13 percent in August, from 8.3 percent in January 2010.  Gillard, whose popularity  peaked at 48 percent  weeks after
she took office in June last year, was backed by just 23 percent
at the start of this month, making her the nation’s least
popular leader in 18 years. The disapproval is throwing up
hurdles to her agenda that includes new taxes on  carbon
emissions  and mining companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd.  Worse than the TV parody are the attacks on her private
life, according to feminist and author Germaine Greer.  “The jibes about Gillard that upset me are the ones about
her childlessness, the ones about her relationship, the
assumption that there is a kind of heterosexual norm that she is
somehow an escapee from,” Greer said Sept. 12 on ABC’s “Q&A”
program, which debated the topic “Women on Top.”  Empty Fruit Bowl  As Gillard’s national profile increased in 2005, she was
criticized after posing alone for a photograph in the kitchen of
her Melbourne home, backed by stark benchtops and an empty fruit
bowl. Six years later, opposition  Liberal Party  leader  Tony Abbott  was photographed in his kitchen with wife Margie,
surrounded by food, dishes and a bowl full of fruit.  Gillard’s policies are proving least popular in Queensland
and  Western Australia , where the nation’s biggest resources-
investment boom in more than a century has swollen remote mining
towns with male workers, reinforcing the gender divide.  In Kalgoorlie, 600 kilometers (373 miles) inland from
Western Australia’s state capital, Perth, workers in bars are
served by topless barmaids or women dressed in nothing but black
lace underwear.  “That’s why we come here,” says Stephen Hucks, a 23-year-
old tradesman for the Sunrise Dam gold mine as he ordered a beer
at the town’s Rec hotel. “We wouldn’t have it any other way.”  Indeterminate Gender  Those attitudes contrast with Australia’s efforts to
legislate for sex equality, including  new passport rules  this
month that allow citizens to nominate their official gender as
male, female or indeterminate, without having to undergo surgery
as proof of a sex change.  Some of the strongest attacks on Gillard stem from her
decision to proceed with a carbon tax after pledging not to do
so before last year’s election. Her  Labor party  lost its
parliamentary majority at the Aug. 21, 2010, poll, forcing her
to form an alliance with independents and the Greens party, led
by  Bob Brown , to stay in power.  Protesters bearing placards reading “Ditch the Witch” and
“Ju-Liar -- Bob Brown’s Bitch” have dotted anti-government
rallies in recent months.  “You look at the body language and some of the placards
held at those rallies and I think there’s a degree of misogyny
and sexism,” said Haydon Manning, an associate professor in the
Department of Politics and Public Policy at Flinders University
in Adelaide. Manning described “At Home With Julia” as
voyeurism and low-rent comedy.  Broken Promises  Some political analysts, such as  Nick Economou  at
 Melbourne ’s  Monash University , say Gillard’s slumping popularity
has more to do with her broken election promises and her party’s
decision to dump  Kevin Rudd  in her favor in June last year.  “You have to accept that when you get the prime
ministership in the way that she did, that when you fail as
miserably in a federal election as she did, and when you lead
such a poor government as she does, that the press are going to
give you a hard time,” said Economou, co-author of “Media,
Power and Politics in Australia.”  Economou disputes the notion that Gillard is marked harder
because she is a woman, saying former Prime Minister John Howard
“copped it mercilessly” from the press.  “Chaser’s War” would ambush Howard on his morning walk,
once with a comedian wielding an axe to parody an earlier
security lapse when a student holding a screwdriver embraced the
prime minister. In the 1980s, “Rubbery Figures” and the Gilles
Report lampooned then-Prime Minister Bob Hawke, Treasurer Paul
Keating and opposition Liberal leaders.  Different Standards  Female politicians have led every Australian state
government except  South Australia , all from Gillard’s ruling
Labor party, where women now represent more than 36 percent of
federal lawmakers.  “I don’t think it’s a particular challenge in Australia”
to be a woman leader, Gillard said in the interview. “In my
lifetime I have lived through a revolution in women’s prospects,
outlooks and opportunities. So much has changed.”  Marie Coleman of the National Foundation for Australian
Women in Canberra, and the first woman to head a Commonwealth
Government statutory agency, said a male prime minister like
Howard and his wife wouldn’t be subject to the type of ridicule
in the series. “They would never have commissioned something as
puerile as this and called it ‘At Home With John and Janette,’”
she said.  Gillard told ABC radio on Sept. 21 that she watched only
the first episode, in which her character, played by Amanda
Bishop, and partner, portrayed by Phil Lloyd, have their plans
for a romantic dinner spoiled by alliance politicians.  “I’ve got more to do than sit around watching ABC TV,”
Gillard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  