-- 
Global Stocks Drop 20% Into Bear Market as Debt Crisis Outweighs Profits

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T05:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/global-stocks-enter-bear-market-as-debt-crisis-outweigh-profits.html
Stocks fell, pushing the MSCI All-
Country World Index of 45 nations into a  bear market  for the
first time in more than two years, after the worsening European
debt crisis and threat of a U.S. recession erased more than $10
trillion from equities since May.  The MSCI index, which slipped 0.3 percent as of 1:33 p.m.
in Hong Kong today, has lost more than 20 percent since peaking
on May 2, meeting the common definition of a bear market. It
tumbled 4.5 percent to a 13-month low of 277.38 yesterday. The
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares in developed nations also fell into a
bear market yesterday, plunging 4.2 percent. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index reached the 20 percent threshold on Sept. 13.  The world is poised for a financial crisis, Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in  Washington  yesterday. Finance chiefs from the Group
of 20 nations pledged late yesterday to address “heightened
downside risks” to the global economy, echoing language used by
the Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 when it announced a $400 billion
plan to spur growth as the recovery from the worst contraction
since the Great Depression falters.  “The market is pricing in a recession,” said Ng Soo Nam,
the Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $154 billion. “Stocks are
looking cheap, but it will take a lot of courage to believe
that. Things could get worse. The risk of a sovereign-debt
default in Greece is the most significant concern.”  Valuations Sink  The MSCI All-Country World Index has retreated 19.8 percent
since July 22. It fell after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.
credit rating following a debate over raising the nation’s
borrowing limit, speculation Greece will default intensified,
and Chinese inflation accelerated to a three-year high. The
slump pushed the price-earnings ratio for the index down to
11.4, the lowest since March 2009 and 46 percent less than the
16-year average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index extended its drop since its
peak on April 29 to 17 percent. The gauge has retreated even as
analysts raise projections for 2011 profit to a record $99.34 a
share this year from $98.73 on April 29, according to the
average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Benchmark measures for five out of 24 developed markets
haven’t posted a 20 percent slump from their highs: the U.S.,
U.K.,  Canada ,  Singapore  and  New Zealand , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Eight out of 21 developing nations aren’t
in bear markets, including  South Africa . The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index has retreated 27 percent since its 2011 high on
May 2.  Europe , Asia  The 15 national stock gauges with the biggest losses since
the MSCI All-Country World peaked on May 2 are for European
countries.  Greece ’s ASE Index has lost 42 percent, Italy’s FTSE
MIB Index has plunged 40 percent and Hungary’s Budapest Stock
Exchange Index has retreated 38 percent.  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a previously unplanned statement in
Washington. Many urged Europe to implement a July promise to
expand the powers of a rescue fund, Japanese Finance Minister
Jun Azumi said.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index has tumbled 28 percent since July
22 as Greece edged closer to defaulting on its sovereign debt
and the cost of insuring western European countries’ loans rose
to records. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen 19.7 percent
since its 2011 high on May 2.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index
has tumbled 23 percent since its peak in November, and  Japan ’s
Topix has slumped 25 percent since April 2010.  Bad Ending  “Europe is going to continue to unwind and eventually end
up badly for the global economy,”  Matt McCormick , a money
manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees
$4 billion, said in a telephone interview. “There are so many
questions, so many uncertainties.”  The 20 percent decline in global equities ended the bull
market that began in March 2009. The MSCI All-Country World
Index climbed as much as 107 percent during the rally. The
measure avoided a bear market in 2010, when it fell 16 percent
between April 15 and July 5. The index rebounded after  Federal
Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke foreshadowed $600 billion in
bond purchases meant to prevent deflation and stimulate growth
at an Aug. 27, 2010, meeting in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  Financial stocks, which posted the biggest losses in the
last bear market, are leading declines again amid growing
concern that European banks will have to write down their
holdings of government debt. Banks, brokerages and insurers in
the MSCI All-Country World have collectively lost 31 percent
since May 2.  SocGen’s Slide  Societe Generale SA of Paris has retreated 66 percent since
May 2, the second-biggest loss among financial stocks in the
MSCI All-Country behind Athens-based EFG Eurobank Ergasias.
UniCredit SpA, based in Milan, has retreated 62 percent. Banks
in Europe hold 98.2 billion euros ($132 billion) of Greek
sovereign debt, 317 billion euros of Italian government debt and
about 280 billion euros of Spanish bonds, according to European
Banking Authority data.  Financial companies in the worldwide index sank 77 percent
during the last bear market as government bailouts rescued the
biggest U.S. banks from collapse and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., once the nation’s fourth-biggest securities firm, filed
the nation’s largest bankruptcy in September 2008.  More than $37 trillion was erased from global equity values
in the previous bear market that lasted for 16 months after the
MSCI All-Country World peaked on Oct. 31, 2007. The index fell
as much as 60 percent amid the first global recession since
World War II and more than $2 trillion in losses and writedowns
at financial companies worldwide after housing prices dropped.  “We could be on the eve of the next financial crisis,”
 Barton Biggs , managing partner and co-founder of hedge fund
Traxis Partners LP in  New York , said during a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Matt Miller  and  Carol Massar 
yesterday. The firm has $1.4 billion in assets. “We shouldn’t
be because there are things that could be done to avert it, but
they haven’t been done. There’s no signs that the authorities
are going to do them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  