-- 
Gold Premium Over Platinum Seen Rising to Record

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-23T16:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/gold-premium-over-platinum-seen-at-record-on-recession-threat-commodities.html
Gold’s premium to platinum, already
the biggest in almost two decades, may surge to the highest on
record in the next year because of investors’ mounting concern
about the global economy.  Gold cost 3.1 percent more than platinum in  London 
yesterday, compared with an average discount of 39 percent over
the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The metal may
reach a premium of 26 percent in the third quarter of 2012,
according to  David Wilson  of Societe Generale SA in London, the
most accurate platinum, palladium and silver forecaster tracked
by Bloomberg over two years. That would be the highest in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1987.  Prices are converging for the first time since the global
economy was in recession in 2008 as investors seek a haven from
slumping stock markets and slowing growth. Platinum is down 8.6
percent for the year because 58 percent of supply is used in
industry for catalytic converters, glass and chemicals. Gold
rose 17 percent and investors in exchange-traded products hold
$119.6 billion of the metal, about 53 times more than in
platinum, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The ratio is indicating that markets are still concerned
about a global recession,” said  Peter Fertig , owner of
Quantitative Commodity Research Ltd. in Hainburg, Germany, and
the most accurate platinum forecaster so far this year in a
survey by the London Bullion Market Association. “That’s
weighing far stronger on platinum than it is gold.”  Gold advanced to $1,663.15 an ounce this year, reaching a
record $1,921.15 on Sept. 6, and platinum is at $1,617.75 an
ounce. Gold will average $2,350 and platinum $1,860 in the third
quarter of next year, Societe Generale estimates.  GSCI Advances  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 4.8
percent this year. Gold was the best performer, beating silver,
which rose 4.5 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks retreated 16 percent, with almost $12 trillion of market
value erased since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Treasuries and gold have become havens for those seeking to
protect their assets from the threat that economies will drop
back into recession. Treasuries maturing in 10 years or more
returned 30 percent this year, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. The  U.S. Mint  sold 112,000 ounces of American Eagle
gold coins last month, the most since January.  Gold is in the 11th consecutive year of its  bull market ,
the longest in at least nine decades, after investors
accumulated 2,236 metric tons of bullion in ETPs. That exceeds
all except four central banks’ reserves, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. HSBC Holdings Plc expects gold to average $2,025
next year, compared with $1,875 for platinum, an 8 percent
premium.  Platinum Jewelry  When prices converged in 2008, platinum more than doubled
in the following 16 months, outpacing gold’s 38 percent advance,
as economic growth rebounded. Consumers bought 36 percent more
platinum jewelry in 2009 than a year earlier, the most since at
least 1975, Johnson Matthey Plc data show.  Investors remain bullish on platinum and are holding almost
a record amount through ETPs backed by the metal. As gold ETP
holdings rose 3.4 percent this year, platinum assets climbed 16
percent to 43.5 tons, and set an all-time high of 45.2 tons on
Sept. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While gold is within
11 percent of its record, platinum would have to climb another
36 percent to reach the record $2,301.50 set in March 2008.  Central Banks  Demand for gold may weaken should governments and central
banks shore up growth. U.S. President  Barack Obama  proposed this
month a $447 billion plan to create jobs and the  Federal Reserve 
this week said it will act to lower long-term borrowing costs to
prevent the economy from sliding into another recession.  “If governments add more fiscal stimulus to support
economic growth, the ratio will rebound as platinum will be
supported more than gold,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst at
LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “Back in
December 2008, when the ratio traded below parity for a short
time, Asian jewelry consumers started to prefer platinum over
gold and that may happen again.”  Economists are becoming increasingly bearish, with their
median estimate for this year’s U.S. growth dropping to 1.6
percent, from as much as 3.2 percent in February, according to
66 predictions compiled by Bloomberg. The  International Monetary
Fund  cut its global growth forecasts to 4 percent for this year
and next on Sept. 20, compared with earlier estimates of 4.3
percent for 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012.  Industrial Demand  Slowing growth hurts platinum more than gold because 58
percent of platinum is used in industry, compared with about 12
percent for gold, the World Gold Council in London estimates.  The average auto catalyst contains 4 grams (0.13 troy
ounces) of platinum, palladium or rhodium, according to London-
based Johnson Matthey, which makes one in every three of the
devices. The canisters have honeycomb-like surfaces that convert
emissions into less harmful substances and are installed on
about 95 percent of new passenger vehicles.  Demand for platinum fell for two consecutive years through
2009, the worst losing streak in a quarter century, according to
Johnson Matthey. Consumption by makers of autocatalysts slumped
47 percent over the period and the  chemical industry  used 31
percent less, the data show.  Investors bought almost 961 tons of gold through ETPs in
those 24 months, worth $53.6 billion at today’s prices. The
2,236 tons now held in ETPs exceeds the reserves of any country
other than the U.S.,  Germany ,  Italy  and  France , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central Banks  Buying also came from central banks, which in 2009 expanded
their combined reserves for the first time in 21 years,
International Monetary Fund data show. The 1.7 percent gain was
the biggest in almost four decades.  Gold will trade at a 5.5 percent premium to platinum in the
first quarter, rising to about 12 percent in the two following
quarters,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  BNP Paribas SA anticipates near-parity until the fourth
quarter of 2012, when platinum will once more trade at a
premium. Anne-Laure Tremblay, a London-based analyst at the
bank, was ranked by Bloomberg as the third-best forecaster
across all precious metals in the past two years.  “Fear drives gold and at the moment there’s a lot of
fear,”  Societe Generale ’s Wilson said. “Gold is far more of an
investment metal, a speculative metal and a safe haven. Central
banks buy it as a store of value and it’s a proxy currency.
Platinum isn’t any of those things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 