-- 
Goldman Sachs May Report Third-Quarter Loss, Barclays Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-22T16:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/goldman-may-have-second-loss-since-ipo-amid-market-turmoil-barclays-says.html
     Sept. 22 (Bloomberg) --  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will
probably report a third-quarter loss as market tumult prevents
the bank from generating a profit for only the second time in 12
years as a public company, Barclays Capital analysts estimated.  Goldman Sachs may lose 35 cents a share in the three months
ended Sept. 30, down from a prior estimate of $2.40 in earnings
per share, the analysts, led by  Roger Freeman , said in a note to
clients today. They cut their earnings-per-share estimate for
Morgan Stanley to 12 cents from 43 cents.  Declines in asset prices will cause losses on some of
Goldman Sachs’s principal investments, which include stakes in
companies and real estate, the analysts wrote. Trading revenue
and investment banking fees have also been reduced amid falling
equity and credit markets and concerns that the European
sovereign debt crisis is worsening.  “Nearly every line is being marked down from our prior
forecasts, which were not particularly optimistic to begin
with,” the analysts wrote. “Some revenue lines are being
reduced by more than half and, due to the equity- and debt-
market decline, we are now incorporating large principal
investment losses.”  Goldman Sachs was the most profitable U.S. securities firm
in Wall Street history before converting to a bank in September
2008 after the collapse of smaller rival Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The fourth quarter of 2008 was the only time since
Goldman Sachs went public in 1999 that the firm has reported a
quarterly loss.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which was the second-biggest
securities firm after Goldman Sachs, also converted to a bank in
2008 and has expanded its retail brokerage business.  Stocks Fall  Goldman Sachs fell $5.28, or 5.4 percent, to $92.58, at
12:08 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
lowest level since March 2009. Morgan Stanley fell $1.16, or 8.4
percent, to $12.66, the lowest level since December 2008.  The two companies are dropping amid an overall decline in
U.S. financial stocks, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index declining 3.4 percent. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday
lowered long-term credit ratings on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and reduced  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term
rating.  Barclays Capital is the investment-banking unit of  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 