-- 
Goldman Sticks With ‘Resilient’ Commodities on Supply Risks

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-22T20:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/goldman-sachs-maintains-overweight-position-in-commodities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said
investors should keep buying commodities because “supply
disappointments” will support prices even as the sovereign-debt
crisis and slowing economies threaten demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index of 24
raw materials will climb 20 percent in the next 12 months, said
 Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s London-based head of commodity
research. Copper will jump 43 percent to a record $11,000 a
metric ton, while crude oil in New York surges 62 percent to
$131 a barrel, he forecast. The bank correctly advised investors
to sell oil and copper in April and turned more bullish the
following month as metals and energy rebounded.  Commodities erased their gains for the year today, leaving
the S&P GSCI spot index down 3.9 percent in 2011, after the
 Federal Reserve  said there are “significant downside risks” to
the economic outlook. The gauge has still jumped 31 percent in
the past two years, outperforming global equities and
Treasuries, as adverse weather threatened global crops and
 China ’s demand for copper, cotton and soybeans surged.  “Despite the recent macroeconomic uncertainty, commodity
prices have been remarkably resilient,” Currie said in a report
today. “Driving this resiliency and substantially less
volatility has been continued evidence of a relatively stronger
fundamental picture due to a combination of supply
disappointments and significant demand” from emerging markets.  The S&P GSCI spot index fell 4.9 percent to 607.49 at 3:57
p.m. in New York, bringing the gauge down more than 20 percent
from this year’s high and heading for a so-called  bear market .  Hedge Funds   In the week ended Sept. 13, hedge funds and other money
managers cut their bullish bets on raw materials for the time in
five weeks, U.S. government data show. Investors placed 29
percent less cash in commodity exchange-traded products in the
first seven months of the year,  Barclays Capital  said on Sept.
14. Societe Generale SA’s global asset-allocation team went
“underweight” on commodities last week, saying that the asset
class is in the “danger zone.”  “We believe that a global recession and/or financial
crisis would be required to derail our constructive commodity
views,” Currie said. “We continue to recommend an overweight
positioning in commodities.”  Copper Shortage  In the six months ended in June, copper supplies trailed
demand by 130,000 tons, the International Copper Study Group
said yesterday. The most-expensive drought in Texas history has
parched pastures, prompting ranchers to cull the most breeding
cows ever and driving livestock prices to a record. The hottest
July since 1955 in the U.S. Midwest eroded corn yields and will
leave inventories before next year’s harvest at the lowest level
since 1996 as a percentage of consumption, government data show.  Energy commodities in the GSCI Enhanced Index will advance
almost 26 percent in the next 12 months, and industrial metals
will jump 23 percent, Goldman said. Agriculture will climb 4.8
percent and precious metals by 4 percent, according to the
report. The bank lowered its three-month forecast for  New York 
oil by 15 percent to $97.50 a barrel.  “We believe that the recent sell-off presents a relatively
good opportunity for longer-dated purchases,” Currie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  