-- 
Greece on Edge of Biggest Insolvency 24 Centuries After First City Default

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-23T15:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/greece-on-edge-of-biggest-insolvency-24-centuries-after-first-city-default.html
History’s first sovereign default
came in the 4th century BC,  committed  by 10 Greek
municipalities. There was one creditor: the temple of Delos,
Apollo’s mythical birthplace.  Twenty-four centuries later,  Greece  is at the edge of the
biggest sovereign default and policy makers are worried about
global shock waves of an insolvency by a government with 353
billion euros ($483 billion) of debt -- five times the size of
Argentina’s $95 billion default in 2001.  “There is a monstrously large amount of uncertainty and a
massive range of possibilities,” said David Mackie, chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “A
macroeconomic disaster could be averted but only by aggressive
policy action” by central banks and governments, he said.  After two international-bailout deals, three years of
recession and budget-cutting votes that almost cost him his job,
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  says throwing in the
towel now would be a “catastrophe.” Potential consequences of
a national bankruptcy include the failure of the country’s
banking system, an even deeper economic contraction and
government collapse.  The fallout may echo the days following the 2008 implosion
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. when credit markets froze and
the global economy sank into recession, this time with the
prospect that the 17-nation euro zone splinters before reaching
its teens. The  International Monetary Fund , whose annual
meetings start in  Washington  today, reckons the debt crisis has
generated as much as 300 billion euros in credit risk for
European banks.  Default Risk  Greek two-year yields surged above 70 percent today and
credit-insurance prices on Greece indicate the chance of default
at more than 90 percent. Investors can expect losses on Greek
debt of as much as 100 percent, says Mark Schofield, head of
interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London.  “People, justifiably, think the crisis is what we’re
living now: cuts in wages, pensions and incomes, fewer prospects
for the young,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
reporters yesterday in Athens. “Unfortunately this isn’t the
crisis. This is an attempt, a difficult attempt, to protect
ourselves and avert a crisis. Because the crisis is  Argentina :
the complete collapse of the economy, institutions, the social
fabric and the productive base of the country.”  Even if Greece receives its next aid payment, due next
month, default beckons in December when 5.23 billion euros of
bonds mature, said  Harvinder Sian , senior interest rate
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  ‘Too Late’  “It’s too late for Greece,”  Howard Davies , a former U.K.
central banker and financial regulator, told “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The Greek
situation is tumbling out of hand and I suspect Greece will not
be able to avoid a substantial default.”  The introduction of the euro and global financial
connections mean previous Greek defaults in the 19th and 20th
century, most recently in 1932, don’t provide a decent precedent
for a failure to satisfy lenders now.  “Contagion will be violent” as the price of the two-year
Greek note tumbles below 30 cents per euro, predicts Sian. The
 European Central Bank  would be the first responders through
purchases of government debt, he says.  Greek Banks  The country’s banks, of which  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  is
the largest, would be the next dominoes. They hold most of the
137 billion euros of Greek  government bonds  in domestic hands, a
third of the total and three times their level of capital and
reserves, says JPMorgan Chase. As those bonds are written down
and equity wiped out, banks would lose the collateral needed to
borrow from the ECB and suffer a rush of withdrawals that likely
triggers nationalizations, said Commerzbank AG economist
Christoph Balz.  “No banking system in the world would survive such a bank
run,” said Frankfurt-based Balz.  A hollowed-out banking sector wouldn’t be the only danger
to an economy that the IMF says will contract for a fourth year
in 2012. The Washington-based lender said this week that Greece
will shrink 5 percent this year and 2 percent next year,
reversing a forecast of a return to growth in 2012.  Unemployment is set to rise to 16.5 percent this year, and
to 18.5 percent next year, the highest in the European Union
after  Spain  and dry kindling for potential social unrest.  Even after saving 14 billion euros in debt repayments, much
depends on what deal Greece could strike with its creditors.  Debt Load  To restore market confidence the debt needs to be pared to
below 100 percent of gross domestic product, Stephane Deo, chief
European economist at UBS AG, said in a July study that noted
national default was “invented” in Greece with the Delos
Temple episode. At the time, the IMF was projecting the debt to
peak at 172 percent next year.  The current debt suggests to him a reduction in the face
value of outstanding securities -- or haircut -- of about 50
percent, which would pare the burden to around 80 percent of
GDP, the same as Germany and France. Citigroup’s Schofield
estimates a writedown of 65 percent to 80 percent, potentially
rising as high as 100 percent as the economy slows further.  If default is limited to Greece, the fallout may be
contained, say Nomura Securities International Inc. strategists
including New York-based Jens Nordvig, whose projections allow
for an 80 percent haircut. They estimate euro-area banks would
lose just over 63 billion euros, with German and French
institutions losing 9 billion euros and 16 billion euros
respectively. The ECB would face about 75 billion euros in
losses on Greek debt it has bought or received as collateral,
they say.  ‘Large Haircuts’  Such amounts suggest “the losses from Greece-related
exposures in isolation look manageable, even in a disorderly
default scenario with large haircuts,” though the ECB would
probably require fresh capital from euro-area governments,
Nordvig and colleagues said in a Sept. 7 report.  A debt exchange that was part of the second Greek bailout
approved by European leaders in July would impose losses of as
little as 5 percent on bondholders, according to a Sept. 7
report by Barclays Capital analysts.  The risk is that the rot spreads beyond Greece as investors
begin dumping the debt of other cash-strapped European nations,
said Ted Scott, director of global strategy at F&C Asset
Management in  London . Portugal and Ireland have already been
bailed out, while speculators have also tested Italy and Spain.
Italy, the world’s eighth-largest economy, has a debt of almost
1.6 trillion euros, while Spain, the 12th biggest economy, owes
656 billion euros.  ‘Grand Solution’  Those possible ripple effects explain why policy makers
won’t let Greece default, said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. He expects
them to strike a “grand solution” in which richer euro
countries such as Germany support the weak and begin issuing
joint bonds.  Policy makers “would only allow a Greek default if they
think they can contain the fallout, which is a dangerous
presumption,” said Diebel.  If Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain all impose haircuts,
European banks could lose as much as $543 billion with those in
Germany and France suffering the most, according to a May report
by strategists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Even those figures don’t tell the full story because they
omit indirect exposure via derivatives such as credit-default
swaps. Economists at Fathom Financial Consulting in London
calculated in June that U.K. and U.S. banks hold such insurance
on Greek debt totaling 25 billion euros and 3.7 billion euros
respectively. Extend that metric to the whole European periphery
and U.S. banks have a 193 billion euro exposure.  ‘Even Worse’  Such linkages threaten an “even worse crisis” than the
folding of  Lehman Brothers , said Scott. “The amount of
outstanding debt is more than with Lehman and we don’t know the
amount of derivative exposure.”  To support the financial system and stave off an economic
slump,  Carl Weinberg , founder of High Frequency Economics Ltd.
in Valhalla,  New York , says governments must create a fund to
inject capital into banks as the U.S. did with its $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “If banks fail, or if they fear big losses, they will stop
lending,” said Weinberg. “As things stand today, a credit
crunch will corset euroland and a depression will ensue when
Greece fails and takes out euroland’s banking system.”  G-20 Signals  Signaling efforts to contain the crisis, European officials
including French Finance Minister Francois Baroin yesterday said
they may be willing to use leverage to boost the firepower of
their 440 billion-euro bailout fund. Group of 20 finance chiefs
said after talks in Washington late yesterday that European
authorities are willing to “maximize” the fund’s impact by the
time the group next meets Oct. 14-15.  The ECB may also intensify its own attempts to support
growth and ease financial market tensions as early as next
month, Governing Council members  Ewald Nowotny  and Luc Coene
said. Potential measures include the reintroduction of 12-month
loans to banks, while JPMorgan Chase’s Mackie said today he
expects the central bank to cut its benchmark interest rate of
1.5 percent next month.  BofA-Merrill Lynch economist  Laurence Boone  calculates a
disorderly Greek default with spillover into Spain and Italy
could mean the euro-area contracts 1.3 percent in 2012, using
the Lehman Brothers episode as a benchmark.  Waiting for Surplus  Her “high probability” scenario of a Greek restructuring
in 2013 when  Europe ’s permanent crisis resolution mechanism is
operational and Greece is closer to having its primary budget in
balance suggests growth of 1 percent next year. The
“increasingly likely” option of an orderly restructuring at
the end of this year would mean expansion of 0.1 percent, she
projects.  Hanging over the debate is also whether Greece could
default and remain a member of the euro area. Nouriel Roubini,
co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC in New York, proposes
that default -- and an end to debt repayments and required
austerity measures -- be twinned with an exit from the euro --an
approach rejected by European and Greek policy makers -- to
restore competitiveness and debt sustainability.  Rebounds  After shrinking 10.9 percent in 2002 following its decision
to default and devalue, Argentina’s economy grew eight years
straight, exceeding 8 percent in every year aside from 2008 and
2009. Russia was growing in double digit just two years after
defaulting on $40 billion of local debt in 1998.  In contrast, facing only hard choices, EU officials have
taken half-measures in the hope that the situation would somehow
turn around, said Rodrigo Olivares-Caminal, senior lecturer in
financial law at the University of London.  “What they have done so far is a patchwork approach,” he
said. “Now things are much worse. It’s becoming more expensive
not only in economic terms but also in social terms for Greek
citizens because now there will be redundancies, now there will
be more taxes there will be less jobs and things will get
worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  