-- 
China Banking Regulator Said to Evaluate Trust Company Loans to Developers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T08:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/greentown-says-it-nas-no-trouble-financing-loans.html
China’s banking regulator is
looking into financing of developers through  trust companies  as
part of a broader evaluation of real estate lending, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The inquiries by the China Banking Regulatory Commission
are part of regular monitoring and aren’t targeting any
individual company, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the regulator’s queries were meant to be
private.  Chinese property developers led by  Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. (3900)  plunged in  Hong Kong  trading for two days on concern
tightened access to loans will force them to cut prices.
Greentown said it hasn’t received any notice following a Reuters
report that the banking regulator ordered trust companies to
report dealings with the developer.  “Given that the nature of trust loans is short term, the
key question would be whether or not developers have sufficient
cash to repay the outstanding loan amounts,” Samsung Securities
Asia Ltd. analysts led by Wee Liat Lee, said in a report today.
“We believe that developers should be financially secure should
the trust loans not to be rolled over.”  Trust loans are usually debt that’s repackaged into
investment products and sold to retail investors, and the loans
are typically funded by banks or the investors themselves,
according to Samsung Securities. For most developers, these make
up less than 10 percent of their loans and the debt maturity is
a few months to a year, the brokerage said, adding that the
 interest rate  ranges from 10 percent to 30 percent.  No Trouble  Greentown, the largest builder in the eastern province of
Zhejiang, said it has no trouble financing its loans and it
hasn’t been queried by the banking regulator. The stock fell to
the lowest since April 2009, losing 7.6 percent to HK$4.15 at
the local time close in Hong Kong.  “We have not received any notice from the regulator,”
Simon Fung, Greentown’s chief financial officer, said yesterday
in a phone interview from the company’s headquarters in Hangzhou.
“The regulator sometimes sends out some surveys or requires
additional information from trust firms. These shouldn’t be
called inspections.”  Developers have turned to trusts for financing as the
regulator restricted bank lending for real estate to cool prices
and avert a property bubble. Real estate stocks made up half of
the 10 worst decliners on the MSCI China Index yesterday.  ‘Overdone’  “We believe investors’ concern was overdone, mainly due to
the fact that the investigation has not been confirmed, and
Greentown’s management has denied that it has received any form
of notification from the CBRC regarding such an investigation,”
according to the Samsung Securities report today.  The CBRC isn’t targeting any individual companies and the
evaluations don’t reflect its assessment of the market, the
person said. The regulator has oversight of the trust industry.  Fewer than half of the 70 cities monitored by the
government posted month-on-month gains in  home prices  for the
first time in August, according to Samsung Securities. The
government said this month its measures to control the property
market are at a critical stage and it needs to focus efforts on
curbing price increases in less affluent cities after limiting
home purchases in markets including Beijing and  Shanghai .  ‘Increase Liquidity Pressure’  “We believe credit tightening and potential weakness in
future sales volume and home prices will increase liquidity
pressure for developers,” analysts at Daiwa Capital Markets led
by Danny Bao said in a report yesterday. “However, we believe
major developers with low financial leverage, strong contract
sales and high cash ratios, are likely to benefit from the
credit crunch.”  Greentown had 5 billion yuan ($781 million) of loans from
trusts out of its total debt of 35 billion yuan as of June 30,
Fung said. The developer had no new lending from trusts this
year, as it was already very difficult to get loans from these
companies last year, he said.  Greentown’s gearing, or its debt relative to equity, is the
highest among Chinese developers, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG’s estimates. “I think what the regulator is doing is
to use Greentown as an example to check on the risks of the
whole industry,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst for Credit Suisse, who rates the stock “underperform.”  Greentown has set up a yuan-denominated real estate fund
with Citic Securities Co. and is in talks with Ping An Insurance
Group Co. for a similar venture to raise capital, Fung said. The
company will be cautious in acquiring land in the second half as
sales slowed after the government tightened rules on the
 property market .  Greentown is aiming for 40 billion yuan of sales this year,
down from 54 billion yuan in 2010. “We cut our sales target,
but it doesn’t mean we have financing problems,” Fung said.
“We can still maintain the balance.”  --Bonnie Cao, Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net 
3900 HK <Equity> CN 