-- 
Libyan Women Won’t Benefit From Quotas, Libyan Official Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T16:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/libyan-women-won-t-benefit-from-quotas-libyan-official-says.html
A quota system to ensure the
participation of females in Libyan politics will increase
segregation and reduce the changes of the right women being
elected to the new government, said Laila Bugaighis, chairwoman
of the National Protection from Violence Committee, part of the
National Transitional Council’s Ministry of Health.  She spoke from the eastern city of Benghazi, in response to
e-mailed questions, as members of the NTC continue negotiations
on an interim cabinet.  “We talked about a quota, but we feel asking for one for
women will reduce the chances of the right qualified women
getting seats in the parliament once it is formed. We also fear
it will increase the segregation of women from men.”  Instead, “we are trying to emphasize  law enforcement  and
make amendments to existing laws or create new ones to regulate
protection, abortion for raped victims and on the longterm
family laws as well that can be used for cases of domestic
violence, and other issues dealing with  women’s rights .  “Part of our work also is to help build the capacity of
civil society that has been established since the Feb. 17
revolution and create women groups, to strengthen the voice of
women and educate them, and allow them to be involved in
politics and decision-making of the new road map for  Libya .  “It is unfortunate to see so many well-educated,
multilingual and skilled women who are not being active in the
making of decisions, especially in the health care and education
sectors, where we believe women can make a difference.”  On women’s participation in the uprising and the outlook for
them:  “It was fantastic at the beginning -- we were making
history. Our voices were heard for the first time in decades.
Women were out there, hand-in-hand with the men in each step.  “After this very important role that women played to make
the revolution a success, and after the NTC became stronger,
they pushed aside all the women who were there at the start of
the revolution. Not only that, across all institutions women are
still marginalized and not allowed any leadership roles.  “For us women interested in seeing more political
involvement for our gender and more leadership roles, we are
working hard by being involved in political civil-society
associations, trying to strengthen them and getting help from
experts for guidance on ways to make sure we will be represented
in the new government.  “This will not be easy in a country led and dominated by
men for such a long time, a country that has never known
democracy or women rights.  “But we are also hopeful that change will happen, and that
the role of women in this revolution will not go unnoticed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  