-- 
Tiffany Engagement Worth $12 Billion in Takeover as Alliance Up: Real M&A

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-23T20:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/tiffany-engagement-worth-12b-real-m-a.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , which almost tripled
its value selling engagement rings since the recession, may be a
takeover target after ending an alliance with  Swatch Group AG (UHR) 
and could hand investors an extra $3.4 billion in a deal.  The world’s second-largest jewelry retailer boosted its
market capitalization to $8.6 billion yesterday from $3.1
billion in June 2009 when the  U.S. economy  emerged from the
longest contraction since the Great Depression, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. After Swatch this month terminated a
20-year watch partnership 16 years early, New York-based Tiffany
may command as much as a 40 percent premium in an acquisition,
or about $12 billion, said Fifth Third Asset Management.  With the breakup of the Swatch deal removing an obstacle
for a potential takeover, Tiffany may now lure interest from
luxury retailers  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA, according to Merriman Capital Inc. and
Caris & Co. While an acquisition of Tiffany would be twice as
large as the biggest purchase of a jewelry retailer, analysts
project revenue will increase more than 30 percent in the next
two years as the company garners the majority of sales from
outside the U.S. by opening more stores in  Asia  and Europe.  “To get possession of Tiffany’s assets somebody’s going to
have to pony up,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst for St. Louis-based
Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone interview. “Their
forays overseas have been stunning. Tiffany’s global brand
strength is what makes this thing special, hands down.”  Swatch Alliance  Mark Aaron, a spokesman for Tiffany, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Olivier Labesse, a
spokesman for LVMH, declined to comment regarding a potential
acquisition of Tiffany. Alan Grieve, director of corporate
affairs at Richemont, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Tiffany climbed 4.5 percent to $70.53 today in  New York  for
the biggest gain in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Retailing Index.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, canceled a
profit-sharing alliance dating back to December 2007 to develop,
produce and sell Tiffany brand watches, according to  statements 
from the companies Sept. 12. Biel, Switzerland-based Swatch said
Tiffany blocked development of the business, while Tiffany said
its brand management and product design rights were impeded.  “With the joint venture with Swatch breaking up, that
removes something that was seen as an obstacle for a takeover
with Tiffany,” Jon Cox, a Zurich-based analyst for Kepler
Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview. “If someone
like a Richemont, another watch company, wanted to take over
Tiffany’s, that would have caused complications.”  Yellow Diamonds  Tiffany’s shares surged 166 percent to $67.47 through
yesterday since the  18-month recession  ended in June 2009,
giving it a market value of $8.6 billion as of yesterday. That’s
triple the 53 percent advance for the  S&P 500  Consumer
Discretionary Index and more than seven times the 23 percent
increase for the S&P 500 during the same period, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The company’s market value had more than tripled to $9.7
billion as of Sept. 19 before the stock fell 11 percent in the
three days through yesterday.  Tiffany’s shares have gained post-recession as Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kowalski opened new stores in the
Asia-Pacific region and  Europe . He also introduced the company’s
first handbag collection in 20 years, a line of yellow diamonds
and men’s briefcases, purses, wallets and business-card holders.
Sales are projected to climb to record levels this year and
next, surpassing $4 billion for the first time in the 12 months
ending in January 2013, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Attractive Brand’  Investors in Tiffany would likely seek a 30 percent to 40
percent premium in a takeover,  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $16.7
billion including about 60,000 shares of Tiffany as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third, said in a phone interview
from Cincinnati.  Based on yesterday’s closing price, that would equate to a
bid of about $88 to $94 a share, valuing the company at as much
as $12 billion.  “Shareholders are going to be looking for a premium,”
Wirtz said. “That’s well within reach of some of the larger
players that may find Tiffany an attractive brand to own.”  Acquisitions of jewelry retailers greater than $250 million
since 1999 have commanded an average premium of 31 percent and a
median of 16 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Applying that premium and Ebitda multiple, Tiffany’s equity may
fetch a takeover bid of $11.2 billion to $12.7 billion.  ‘Smart Management Team’  “This is a smart management team that has been very
successful in making the stock price appreciate over time,”
said  Edward Jones ’s Arnold. “They’re going to expect top
dollar.”  A buyout of Tiffany would be the biggest deal in the
industry in at least a decade, surpassing LVMH’s pending
purchase of Bulgari SpA, the Rome-based watch and jewelry maker,
for 3.7 billion euros ($5.2 billion).  Still, a slowing economy may deter potential acquirers of
Tiffany, which sells everything from $200 necklaces to  $470,000
bracelets , as consumers tighten spending on jewelry and other
items that aren’t seen as necessities, said Jennifer Milan, a
New York-based analyst at  Sterne Agee  & Leach Inc.  ‘Started to Press’  “Their consumer is very tied to their net worth,” Milan
said. “If the market started to press and they see their net
worth declining, they’re going to be less inclined to spend
money at Tiffany, so that obviously is a concern.”  The S&P 500, the benchmark for American equities, has
slipped 16 percent in the last two months amid concern the
worsening European sovereign debt crisis will help send the
economy back into a recession.  LVMH’s track record of taking stakes in other luxury brands
makes the world’s largest luxury-goods maker a likely buyer for
Tiffany, Dorothy Lakner, a New York-based analyst for Caris,
wrote in an e-mail. In addition to its Bulgari purchase, Paris-
based LVMH has built what is now more than a 21 percent stake in
birkin-bag maker  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA.  “A company like LVMH certainly has funding and might be
interested,” Sterne Agee’s Milan said. “Tiffany has very, very
high brand equity. They have a growing global diversification.”  Specialist Watchmakers  Richemont, which gets about a quarter of its income from
specialist watchmakers, may also be interested in Tiffany,
according to Kristine Koerber, a New York-based analyst for
Merriman Capital.  Richemont, the Geneva-based company that sells Cartier
watches and Jaeger-LeCoultre timepieces, prefers to invest in
its existing businesses, CEO Johann Rupert said Sept. 7 when
asked about the company’s interest in making more acquisitions.  Tiffany will soon generate the majority of sales outside
the U.S. as it opens more stores in Europe, Agnes Cromback, the
head of the company’s French unit, said in an interview last
week. The retailer had 31 locations in Europe as of July 31 and
plans to double its properties in  China  to 30 within the next
few years. The company generated 62 percent of revenue
domestically in the year ended January 2007, a portion that
dropped to 51 percent last year.  “Right now China is their biggest success story,” said
Edward Jones’s Arnold. “If you want to talk about a place where
there’s a lot of people that are emerging as affluent all of a
sudden, China’s just a stunning market for that. Tiffany has a
brand that works there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net . 