-- 
Mike Leigh’s ‘Grief’ Pits Rebel Teen Against Dour Mum: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/mike-leigh-s-grief-pits-rebel-teen-against-repressed-mum-london-stage.html
Only Mike Leigh could get away with
this.  Commissioned by the  National Theatre  in London to create a
new play, he starts without a script and works out themes in
private with a company of actors. He directs the piece himself
and reveals the title five days before previews: “Grief.”  It’s an apt choice for a gloomy work at the NT’s smallest
stage, the Cottesloe. Two hours long, no interval. It’s
depressing, and often brilliant.  This is Leigh’s “ Abigail’s Party ” for the 1950s. We have
a comedy of class and manners with many of the same elements: a
single mother, a tearaway teenage daughter, ineffectual men, a
bubbly social climber who bullies everyone. The plot is thin;
the characters and acting are everything. Like Abigail, there’s
a sudden ending, which doesn’t give it all away, because the
finale jumps out at you from nowhere.  Each resident of this bleak house has their own private
grief. Dorothy, played with stiff-upper-lip understatement by
Lesley Manville, is struggling after the wartime death of her
husband Victor, whose photograph she still stares at. Her sulky
daughter Victoria (Ruby Bentall) never knew her father and is in
open rebellion against just about everything.  ‘Chin Chin’  The suffocating convention the teenager hates has sucked
the life out of Victoria’s live-in brother Edwin (Sam Kelly), an
insurance clerk on the verge of retirement. He seems incapable
of emotion, only drinking sherry -- “chin chin” -- and
mumbling wartime songs: “Smile, though your heart is aching.
Smile even though it’s breaking.”  The gloom is brightened by visitors. Hugh, the doctor,
(David Horovitch in relentlessly jolly mode), specializes in
awful jokes that raise plenty of laughs -- “computers, whatever
they may be,” “to pee or not to pee, that is the question,”
“as I said before, I never repeat myself.”  Marion Bailey is a delight as Gertrude, whose hectoring
often goes too far: “I am such a silly girl,” she chides
herself. “Garrulous Gertie.”  The  London  middle-class home is beautifully recreated by
Alison Chitty, while the humor keeps things moving. This throws
Dorothy’s repressed sadness into sharper focus and makes the
final scenes all the more disturbing. Rating: ***½.  Minimalist Passion  Jonathan Miller’s production of Bach’s “St. Matthew
Passion” at the Olivier Theatre next door puts the orchestra in
the round and the singers roaming in the middle, dressed in
jeans and T-shirts. Props are minimal: wooden chairs, a glass of
wine for Jesus, a bowl for Pilate to wash his hands.  Most people would call this semi-staged. Miller, in a
contrarian program note, insists it’s fully staged. Either way,
it’s hard to outdo Bach’s superb music. The  Southbank Sinfonia 
does a fine job in the unusual setting, and conductor Paul
Goodwin has worked out a sharp English translation.  The story moves forward chronologically, opera style, yet
this is no opera buffa. There are plenty of times when Jesus,
played by Hadleigh Adams, stands like a dazed statue for minutes
at a time while events unfold around him.  Andrew Staples’s Evangelist lolls in a chair or prowls
about before jumping in as the narrator. His rich voice is
outshone only by fellow tenor Benjamin Hulett. Mezzo-soprano
Sally Bruce-Payne comes to the fore as the drama ends and Jesus
slowly walks off through the audience to his death. Rating: ***.  Medieval Mysteries  For a more exhaustive rundown of the Biblical story,
 Shakespeare’s Globe  has revived Britain’s medieval mystery
plays, first presented by traveling actors off stage wagons.  There’s plenty of tourist-friendly pomp and spectacle in
the open-air arena. In contrast to the daylong showings once
tried at the National Theatre, the adaptations by Tony Harrison
aggressively cut the originals to three hours.  Sadly, this loses the rich complexity of the originals. The
knights seem like cardboard cutouts. Only William Ash looks
suitably sainted in the role of Jesus. It’s a dramatic story
turned into lackluster drama. Bawdy comedy dilutes the
supposedly scary Last Judgment, with parts of the audience
getting parceled out to heaven or hell. Rating: **.  “St. Matthew Passion” by Johann Sebastian Bach, staged by
 Jonathan Miller , is at the Olivier through Oct. 2. “Grief” by
Mike Leigh is at the Cottesloe until Jan. 28, 2012. Both at
National Theatre, South Bank, SE1 9PX. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  “Globe Mysteries” runs through Oct. 1 at Shakespeare’s
Globe, 21 New Globe Walk, Bankside, SE1 9DT. Information:
 http://www.shakespearesglobe.com  or +44-20-7902-1400.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 