-- 
Ikea to Accelerate China Store Openings to Shift Away From European Gloom

-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 
2011-09-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ikea-to-accelerate-china-store-openings.html
Ikea Group, the world’s largest
furniture retailer, will triple the pace of store openings in
 China  to capture faster growth in the second-largest economy,
Chief Executive Officer Mikael Ohlsson said.  “The demand is there,” said the Swedish executive,
sitting in a living-room display at the company’s Amsterdam
store. Customers in the world’s most populous nation have “the
dream, the wish, the need to furnish and the fit with Ikea is
very good.” Sales in China are growing faster than at the
company as a whole, Ohlsson said.  The expansion in China will allow the company to reduce its
reliance on Europe, where it gets about 80 percent of sales and
which is suffering from a slump in  consumer confidence . Ikea
will cut prices by 1.5 percent this year as its increased scale
allows it to produce items at less cost, the CEO said.  “We will have a higher expansion pace going forward than
what we have had in the last couple of years,” said Ohlsson,
who has been at the helm of the company since 2009. The company
will continue to accelerate hiring after adding about 4,000 jobs
last year.  Ikea will open about three stores a year in China in the
coming years, Ohlsson said, building on the nine it has there at
the moment. Opening an outlet costs 60 million euros ($81
million) to 100 million euros on average, he added.  The maker of  Poang chairs  and Billy bookshelves increased
sales at its shops about 6.9 percent in the year ended Aug. 31,
bringing the total to about 25 billion euros as the company
slashed prices, added stores and new services, the CEO said,
divulging the figures for the first time.  India   “The competitiveness of Ikea should improve every year and
this year, the gap is even bigger between inflation and Ikea’s
price picture,” he said. “What we have decided is to continue
to become more affordable and to be also more accessible.”  The purveyor of frozen meatballs has also made the decision
to enter India when retailing regulations in the nation change,
allowing full ownership for foreign, single-brand companies,
Ohlsson said. It will take Ikea between 4 and 5 years to open up
from the moment the law is changed, he added.  Expansion in  Latin America , where the company has no
stores, isn’t the focus at the moment, the CEO said, as the retailer 
focuses on building in its existing regions. Ohlsson said 
the retailer sees no benefit to going public and has no plans 
to make any acquisitions.  Pillows  The company, which plans to open stores in Croatia and
 Serbia , is gaining market share, Ohlsson said. While people are
moving less often, they are updating their houses with low-cost 
items such as pillows, Ohlsson said, grabbing a selection of 
throw pillows to rearrange on a white couch to demonstrate the point.   Comparable sales in  Spain  have been unchanged, even
 though the home-furnishing market there has contracted about 40 
percent, he said.  “What we always see is that the more value-conscious
customers become, the more attractive Ikea is,” he said. “That
is our idea, that the people with normal incomes in normal
situations should get the most for their money.”  Ikea, which first comes up with a price point for a product
and then figures out how to make it, is testing a program to
work directly with contractors to market its kitchens, Ohlsson
said. One in two kitchens in  Norway  are made by Ikea, while in
some markets the number is one in 20, he said.  Online Shopping  The retailer, known for a soup-to-nuts do-it-yourself
approach, is also adding services for customers. For example, a
shopper can select items they want in the store and have them
delivered to their home without having to gather them from the
outlet’s warehouses themselves.  “A lot of people want the absolute least expensive and
that’s the whole idea -- as a customer, you pay for the extra
service and if you do everything yourself, you get the
cheapest,” Ohlsson said.  Ikea, which has online shopping in some markets, is
also developing its website to have a broader geographic reach
and offer more services.  The company, which updates its collection of about 10,000
products with more than 2,000 new items a year, will continue
investing in products and enlarging stores in the coming year as
it shrugs aside the macroeconomic environment, the CEO said.  “It will continue to be a shaky world economy, with big
differences between different regions and markets,” Ohlsson
said. “Not least, in  Europe , it will be quite shaky.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  