-- 
Hilary Strengthens Into Hurricane Off Mexico’s Pacific Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-09-22T17:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hilary-strengthens-into-hurricane-off-mexico-s-pacific-coast-1-.html
Hurricane Hilary strengthened off
southwestern  Mexico  and may become a Category 3 storm by
tomorrow as it skirts the coast on a track into the open
Pacific, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Hilary is now a Category 1 storm on the five-step  Saffir-
Simpson  scale, with top winds of 85 miles (137 kilometers) per
hour, up from 75 mph earlier today. The system is about 100
miles south-southeast of  Acapulco , Mexico, and moving west-
northwest at 10 mph.  “Hilary could become a major hurricane by Friday,” the
center said  in an advisory  at about 2 p.m. New York time. “On
the forecast track, the core of Hilary will continue to move
parallel to the southwest coast of Mexico but any deviation to
the north of the track could bring stronger winds to the
coast.”  Mexico’s government issued a tropical-storm warning from
Lagunas de Chacahua to Punta San Telmo and a tropical-storm
watch from Punta San Telmo to the coastal resort of Manzanillo,
according to the U.S. center. Winds of at least 39 mph, tropical
storm strength, are reaching the coast and as much as 5 inches
of rain may fall along the shoreline.  Some isolated areas of southern Mexico may receive 10
inches of rain from the storm, the hurricane center said.  In the Atlantic,  Tropical Storm Ophelia , the 15th named
system of the season, was about 975 miles east-southeast of the
Leeward Islands, the center said. The system, moving west at 13
mph, has sustained winds of 65 mph.  Ophelia is expected to weaken in the next two days as it
encounters strong upper-level winds, the center said. The
hurricane center’s current track forecast predicts Ophelia will
veer north of  Puerto Rico  and into the mid-Atlantic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  