-- 
Hilary Strengthens Into Category 4 Hurricane Off Mexico’s Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-23T03:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hilary-strengthens-to-category-2-hurricane-off-mexican-coast.html
Hurricane Hilary grew into a
Category 4 storm off southwestern  Mexico  and may become more
powerful as it skirts the coast on a track into the open Pacific,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Hilary, with top winds of 135 miles (215 kilometers) per
hour, up from 105 mph earlier today, was about 85 miles south-
southeast of  Acapulco  and moving west-northwest at 9 mph.  “Some additional strengthening is possible on Friday,”
the center said  in an advisory  at about 8 p.m. Eastern time.
“The core of Hilary will continue to move parallel to the
southwest coast of Mexico, but any deviation to the north of the
track could bring stronger winds to the coast.”  Mexico’s government has posted a tropical-storm warning
from Lagunas de Chacahua to Punta San Telmo and a tropical-storm
watch from Punta San Telmo to the coastal resort of Manzanillo,
according to the U.S. center. Winds of at least 39 mph, tropical
storm strength, are reaching the coast and as much as 10 inches
(25 centimeters) of rain may fall in some areas.  Hilary’s top winds make it a Category 4 cyclone on the
five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, the center said. A storm is
considered a major hurricane when its winds top 111 mph, the
threshold for Category 3 status.  While Hilary may be strong, it’s a small storm, the center
said. Hurricane-force winds, those of at least 74 mph, extend
only 25 miles from its core.  In the Atlantic,  Tropical Storm Ophelia , the 15th named
system of the season, was about 820 miles east-southeast of the
Leeward Islands, the center said. The system, moving west at 12
mph, weakened to sustained winds of 50 mph from 65 mph.  Ophelia is expected to degenerate in the next two days as
it encounters strong upper-level winds, the center said. The
hurricane center’s current track forecast predicts Ophelia will
veer north of  Puerto Rico  and into the mid-Atlantic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 