-- 
IMF Calls on Turkey to Restore Inflation-Fighting Focus

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-22T15:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/imf-says-faster-inflation-may-require-turkey-to-tighten-policy.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said Turkish inflation may exceed central bank goals this year
and urged authorities to restore credibility by raising rates
and dropping “innovative” policies.  Inflation may accelerate to 8.5 percent by the end of this
year, compared with a central bank goal of 5.5 percent,
indicating that “some tightening would be needed to achieve the
target for next year,” the IMF said in a  statement  on its
website after a team from the organization visited Turkish
authorities in Ankara.  The central bank on Sept. 20 held its benchmark one-week
repo rate at a historic low of 5.75 percent and said it may need
to extend a half-point cut it made Aug. 4 if the debt crisis in
 Europe ,  Turkey ’s main export market, threatens to stall growth.
Inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent in August from 6.3 percent
in July, an increase the bank says will prove temporary.  “Restoring the credibility of inflation targets requires
that the policy rate be adjusted if headline inflation is
projected to miss the year-ahead point target,” the fund
statement said. “This tightening would best be delivered
through an increase in the policy rate.”  The lira weakened to an all-time low of 1.8443 per dollar
today. The bank said Sept. 20 that faster inflation caused by a
weak lira driving up the price of imported goods will prove
“temporary.” Inflation is in line with the bank’s goal of 5
percent at the end of 2012, it said.  Policy Mix  Under Governor Erdem Basci, the central bank has developed
a policy mix designed to reduce demand for imported  consumer
goods  through limits on bank lending, while rate cuts weaken the
lira.  “In some circumstances, as at present, these different
goals and policy actions may appear hard to reconcile,” the
fund said. “ Monetary policy  should restore its focus on  price
stability  within a transparent and consistent operating
framework.”  Gross domestic product may grow 7.5 percent this year, the
fund said, faster than the 6.6 percent it forecast in the World
Economic Outlook announced on Sept. 20. The Washington-based
lender also raised its growth forecast for 2012 to 2.5 percent
from 2.2 percent.  The current-account deficit may widen to about 10 percent
of GDP this year from 6.6 percent in 2010, before narrowing to
7.5 percent next year, the fund said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 