-- 
Indian Equity Valuations ‘Not Cheap Yet’, MAPE Securities Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-22T10:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/indian-equity-valuations-not-cheap-yet-mape-securities-says.html
     Sept. 22 (Bloomberg) --Samir Gilani, head of equities at
MAPE Securities in Mumbai, comments on the outlook for Indian
stocks. He spoke in a telephone interview.  The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index sank 4.2 percent to
16,342.42, the steepest drop since July 6, 2009, according to
preliminary closing prices at 3:30 p.m. in Mumbai.  On markets:  “The Fed announced the ‘Operation Twist’ policy in which
they will buy long-term treasuries and sell the short term ones
and at the same time buy asset-backed mortgage securities as
well. The language used was disturbing, it spooked people. So,
most markets sold off at the end and Asian markets opened weak.
The relentless depreciation of the rupee is another reason. It
is quite disturbing. There will be no RBI intervention at this
point of time. The issue is much bigger because we import a lot
of commodities. Copper has fallen and oil is falling. This does
not affect our markets as the rupee is depreciating against it.
We’re still paying more dollars to get more commodities and
that’s hurting us. The government is trying a lot behind closed
doors to get some traction on policy reforms. That will bear
fruit at some point of time.”  On investment strategy:  “Investors should stay away from markets. This is not the
time to cherry-pick stocks because in the event that things get
worse, investors will have to bear more pain. Next six months
are not a good time to invest in stocks unless we get clear
indications, such as  interest rates  peaking out and about to
fall. Unless U.S. and European markets stabilize, it’s not a
good time to enter markets.”  “The only sector we like are the private banks, like HDFC
Bank and Kotak Bank. They don’t face concerns over non-
performing assets, which is going to start to blow up. Many of
them don’t have exposure to the infrastructure sector, so they
are well-placed.”  On valuations:  “We are at good valuations at 13 to 14 times. We could go
down by 5 to 10 percent. We are not cheap yet, like the October
2008-levels. We will get cheap, and then we will see some kind
of flows to the markets.”  Companies on the Sensex trade at 13.8 times future profit,
within 10 percent of the lowest level since April 2009. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index is valued at 9.6 times, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  