-- 
Indian Bonds Gain for a Second Day as Economic Outlook Weakens

-- B y   V   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-22T12:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/indian-bonds-gain-for-a-second-day-as-economic-outlook-weakens.html
India ’s 10-year bonds advanced for
a second day on speculation a weakening global economy will add
pressure on the central bank to halt interest-rate increases.  Yields on debt due 2021 fell to the lowest level in almost
two weeks after the U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday there
are “significant downside risks” to world growth. Bonds also
rose on optimism falling international commodity prices will
help slow inflation in India.  “Given the concerns about global growth, it looks like
Indian  interest rates  have peaked,” said R.S. Chauhan, chief
dealer of fixed-income and currencies at  State Bank of Bikaner &
Jaipur. (SBBJ)  “Commodity prices seem to have a downward bias.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.30 percent as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. That’s the lowest level since Sept. 12.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 global growth
forecast this year to to 4 percent from 4.3 percent. The  Asian
Development Bank  lowered last week its estimate for India’s
growth in the year ending March 31 to 7.9 percent from 8.2
percent predicted in April.  Gross domestic product increased 7.7 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the smallest gain since 2009, a government
report showed on Aug. 30. The UBS Bloomberg Constant Maturity
Commodity Index has dropped 9.8 percent this month.  India’s central bank lifted its repurchase rate last week
to a three-year high of 8.25 percent, this year’s sixth
increase, after a government report showed wholesale prices
gained 9.78 percent in August, the most in more than a year.  The nation’s food inflation rate dropped to a seven-week
low, a government report showed today. An index measuring
wholesale prices of agricultural products gained 8.84 percent in
the week ended Sept. 10 from a year earlier, after rising 9.47
percent the previous week.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell six basis points to 7.91 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  