-- 
India’s Food Inflation Slows to Lowest Level in Seven Weeks as Wheat Falls

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-22T07:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/india-s-food-inflation-slows-to-lowest-level-in-seven-weeks.html
India ’s food inflation slowed to a
seven-week low, an easing that may be insufficient to prevent
the central bank from raising  interest rates  further.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 8.84 percent in the week ended Sept. 10 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New
Delhi  today. It rose 9.47 percent the previous week.  India’s food inflation rate has exceeded 8 percent for the
past eight weeks, reducing the spending power of more than
three-quarters of the population the  World Bank  says live on
less than $2 a day in the nation. The rise in food prices is
driven by lower supplies and can’t be “dismissed as a temporary
phenomenon,” the  Reserve Bank  of India said last week as it
increased rates for the 12th time since mid-March 2010.  “The RBI will be looking at the food inflation to gauge
overall price pressures as it serves as a lead indicator,”
 Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
Singapore, said before the report.  She expects the central bank to boost its repurchase rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.5 percent by the end of
December.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.32 percent as of
12:11 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
declined 2.3 percent, and the rupee weakened 1 percent to 48.81
against the dollar.  The currency has dropped 8.5 percent this quarter, the most
in  Asia  after the South Korean won.  Wheat prices fell 2.7 percent in the week ended Sept. 10
from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Cereal costs climbed
4.1 percent, compared with a 5 percent gain the previous week.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
9.78 percent in August.  Inflation may accelerate after Indian Oil Corp., the
country’s biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices on Sept. 16
for the second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels
below cost are increasing following the rupee’s drop, Indian Oil
Finance Director P.K. Goyal said Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  