-- 
Indian Stocks Sink Most in Two Years on Fed Outlook, Weak Rupee

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-22T10:54:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/india-stock-futures-decline-as-fed-buys-debt.html
India’s benchmark equities index
tumbled by the most in more than two years, tracking losses in
Asian stocks, after the  Federal Reserve  cited risks to the  U.S.
economy  and the rupee weakened to a two-year low.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  sank 6.1 percent, the most since
July 2009. The  Supreme Court  may hear tomorrow a petition filed
seeking a federal investigation into alleged irregularities in
awarding a drilling contract by the nation’s biggest company.
Emerging-market stocks slid the most in six weeks after the Fed
warned of “significant downside risks” to the U.S. economy.
India’s rupee depreciated as investors exited riskier assets.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 4.1 percent
to 16,361.15 at the 3.30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the most since
July 6, 2009. The gauge has retreated 20 percent this year amid
concern record interest-rate increases by the central bank may
worsen the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing economic
growth in the U.S. on earnings.  “The relentless depreciation in the rupee is quite
disturbing,” said Samir Gilani, head of equities at MAPE
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “We import a lot of commodities, and
are paying more dollars to get them. This is hurting us.”  The rupee slid 1.5 percent to 49.066 per dollar as of 3:35
p.m. in Mumbai, the lowest level since July 13, 2009, Bloomberg
data show. The currency has lost 10.3 percent this quarter, the
second-worst performer among 10 most-traded currencies in  Asia .  “The situation has got complicated by the fact that rupee
has depreciated,”Nandkumar Surti, chief investment officer at
J.P. Morgan Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in a Bloomberg
UTV interview today. “Ideally, I would say the inflation has
topped out and we are at the end of the monetary tightening but
the rupee depreciation has changed the scenario somehow.”  Currency Intervention  India’s central bank will intervene in the rupee, though it
isn’t at the moment, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee told
reporters in  New York  yesterday. The  Reserve Bank  of India will
sell dollars to control movements in the  exchange rate , though
“right now there is no such situation,” he said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 4.7 percent to 895.94
at 11:09 a.m. in  London , the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 8
and poised for the lowest close since June 2010.  Indonesia ’s
Jakarta Composite Index slumped 9 percent, set for the biggest
loss since October 2008, and benchmark indexes fell more than 3
percent in  Taiwan , Russia and Poland. The Shanghai Composite
Index lost 2.8 percent after a gauge of manufacturing fell.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. tumbled 4.1 percent to 4,923.65, the lowest since
Aug. 17, 2009.  Buying Protection  Options prices climbed as investors sought protection
against greater stock-market losses.  India  VIX, which gauges the
cost of buying protection against losses in the S&P CNX Nifty
Index, jumped 22.4 percent to 33.9, the steepest climb since
August 5, 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s economy will expand 7.8 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its World Economic Outlook
on Sept. 20, slower than the 8.2 percent estimated in June.  “IMF’s trimming of its growth forecast for India sounds a
warning signal,” said Amit Chheda, head of equity at Inventure
Growth & Securities. “It will make global investors trim their
expectations. Measures announced in the last few months in the
U.S. have created a psychological impact rather than resulting
in concrete changes in economic performance.”  Overseas investors withdrew a net $2.4 billion in August
from Indian equities, the most since October 2008, according to
data on the  website  of the market regulator.  Auto Stocks  Reliance retreated 6.9 percent to 780.3 rupees.  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker, dropped 3.2
percent to 1,087.1 rupees. Hero Motocorp Ltd., the largest two-
wheeler maker, lost 2.2 percent to 2,086.9 rupees, and  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Land Rover and Jaguar, tumbled 6.2
percent to 154.7 rupees.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, raised
local gasoline prices on Sept. 15 for the second time in four
months, citing an increase in the cost of crude because of a
weaker rupee. That will boost the inflation rate by seven basis
points, the central bank said the next day. Fuel and power make
up almost 15 percent of India’s wholesale-price index.  “Inflation is out of control and will further come under
pressure because of the fuel hike,” said Prakash Diwan, head of
research at Networth Stockbroking Ltd. The RBI may increase
rates by another 25 to 50 basis points, he said.  The central bank may start loosening its monetary policies
by the middle of next year as inflation eases,  Rajeev Malik ,
economist at CLSA Ltd., said Sept. 20. The benchmark inflation
rate may drop to about 6 percent by June, helped by a possible
correction in commodity prices, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  