-- 
India’s Rate-Increase Cycle ’Nearing Its End,’ Gokarn Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-09-23T05:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/india-is-nearing-the-end-of-rate-increase-cycle-gokarn-says.html
India ’s central bank is close to
the end of its record series of interest-rate increases as
inflation will probably slow next year, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said.  “You could say that the cycle is nearing its end,” he
said, “given the projection that inflation will start coming
down and will continue to move down from December onwards.” He
declined to specify when the  Reserve Bank of India  may stop
raising rates.  The inflation rate will drop because “ oil prices  do not
appear to be going higher,” and “we are seeing some
deceleration in domestic growth because demand is being
moderated,” Gokarn said in an interview in New York yesterday.
Rising interest rates have helped slow consumer demand, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  boosted India’s repurchase rate for the
sixth time this year on Sept. 16, increasing benchmark borrowing
costs by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent as
policy makers seek to tame the fastest inflation among the
biggest emerging markets. Indian wholesale prices rose 9.78
percent in August from a year earlier.  “Inflation will slow in the coming months due to a
combination of past rate increases and the slowdown in the
global economy,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based
economist at ratings company Crisil Ltd. “The global slowdown
will cool inflation but the fall in the rupee could offset the
effect.”  Bear Market  Global stocks fell, pushing the MSCI All-Country World
Index of 45 nations into a  bear market  for the first time in
more than two years, after the worsening European debt crisis
and threat of a U.S. recession erased more than $10 trillion
from equities since May.  Asian stocks pared declines after finance chiefs from the
Group of 20 nations said they would address “heightened
downside risks” from sovereign debt and a slowing global
economy.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index fell 0.9 percent
at 10:54 a.m. in Mumbai. The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 49.76
per dollar, extending its decline this quarter to 10.2 percent,
the second-biggest drop in a basket of 10 Asian currencies
excluding  Japan ’s yen, according to data provided by Bloomberg.  India’s 10-year bonds headed for the biggest weekly gain in
two months on speculation the central bank will refrain from
raising rates further amid turmoil in global financial markets.  Yields Decline  The yield on the 7.8 percent securities due April 2021 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, this week to 8.30
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. It was
the biggest decline since the period ended Aug. 5.  The Indian central bank’s move last week contrasted with
other central banks in the so-called BRIC nations.  Brazil 
unexpectedly cut its target Selic rate last month to shield the
Latin American economy from a global slowdown, and  Russia 
reduced the rate charged on repurchase loans on Sept. 14 in a
bid to bolster the amount of cash on the market amid sliding oil
prices.  Duvvuri Subbarao, Governor of the Reserve Bank, has raised
borrowing costs by a total 350 basis points since mid-March
2010, the fastest run of rate increases since the central bank
was established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  “Our inflation pressures stem from a bunch of factors that
are unique to our economy,” Gokarn said. “Unlike many
countries, whose growth comes significantly from export
contributions, we are slightly more skewed to our domestic
environment.”  The global downturn may “help us to manage inflation,” as
commodity prices drop and demand for exports weakens, Gokarn
said.  India’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in the
three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the slowest pace
of growth since the last quarter of 2009.  Inflation still remains a “key risk” for India and there
is a “likelihood of inflation remaining high for the next few
months,” the central bank said in a statement after announcing
the last rate increase on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  