-- 
Insomniacs Get Sunrise Chef, Veuve Clicquot in Anti-Hunger Fest

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/insomniacs-get-sunrise-chefs-veuve-clicquot-in-2-day-fest-to-fight-hunger.html
In  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district,
amid countless contemporary-art galleries, a mix of cuisine and
charity will provide round-the-clock tastings starting Friday
night.  At  Honey Space  about 9 p.m., chefs from New York’s Locanda
Verde and the Dutch are serving langoustine. By 1 a.m.,
 Belgium ’s Kobe Desramaults offers Flemish salted beef. Bleary-
eyed diners may be seen at 5 a.m. eating mackerel served by
 France ’s  Armand Arnal .  This is  Le Grand Fooding New York , a 52-hour pop-up
restaurant created by French culinary guide  Le Fooding  and its
partner, Veuve Clicquot, while raising money for  Action Against
Hunger ’s New York chapter. It’s the third year for the New York
edition of the event, which was first held in Paris in 2000.  “In Paris the early-morning dinners absolutely were
crowded,” said Alexandre Cammas, founder of Le Grand Fooding
New York. “When you come from abroad, you say New York is a
crazy city, people don’t sleep, and you discover that at 4 a.m.
people do go to bed.”  Crowds were a problem last year in New York, when the sold-
out event was billed as the battle between  San Francisco  and New
York City chefs. On the first night some ticket buyers faced
long lines and no food by the time they arrived at their
favorite chef’s serving station.  “We were overwhelmed by its success,” Cammas said. “We
had 1,500 people each night. It was not a good thing to be among
the last 100 people.”  This year Cammas and his partners staged two events,
starting last Saturday with an outdoor food tasting and live
music at Manhattan’s Elizabeth Street Garden. It offered ticket
buyers the option of a more intimate party.  ‘Exquisite Corpse’  Working in shifts through midnight Sunday, 13 chefs will
each make a multi-course meal including one dish that’s a
variation of one served by a previous cook. The event is called
“Exquisite Corpse,” from a French term referring to an ordered
assemblage of words, or in this case dishes.  For instance, Slovenian chef Ana Ros’s Saturday 9 a.m. meal
includes green ravioli in trout broth with deer tartare and cod.
U.K. chef Sat Bains will follow with green fennel-flavored
ravioli accompanied by pork belly and braised oxtail.  Above all, Cammas wants those attending to have a pleasant
social experience while enjoying the meal.  “There is nothing more boring than to have a dinner with
people who are food addicts,” Cammas said. “I like to have
dinner with people who are happy and curious and interested in
arts, movies and literature. That is what makes a nice dinner.”  (Tickets are still available for a limited number of
dinners at Le Grand Fooding  New York ’s “Exquisite Corpse”
Sept. 23-25. Information:  http://legrandfooding.com/new-york/ )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 