-- 
Insurers Revive HMO-Like Networks

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-22T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/insurers-revive-hmo-like-networks.html
Insurers are back in the business
of providing medical care, just as they did in the 1990s with
the much-maligned health maintenance organizations. This time,
they promise, it will be different.  The largest carriers have spent about $5 billion since 2008
buying doctor practices and clinics. This month  Humana Inc. (HUM) 
purchased medical facilities in  Georgia  and  New Jersey  to add to
its more than 300 clinics, while  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  bought
a California management group of 2,300 doctors in August.  While HMOs foundered because of patient complaints about
shortchanged care and doctors’ reluctance to participate,
insurers say this time the effort to contain costs through
networks will succeed by emphasizing quality preventive care.
Insurers say the goal is keeping people healthy so they don’t
need more-expensive medical services, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 26 edition.  “It wasn’t working as well in those days as I think it
potentially can work now,” Mike McCallister, Humana’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “There’s a
lot more opportunity for success.”  Physician attitudes have changed, McCallister said. They
are more willing to join integrated health systems, he said,
because being members of large practices and health
organizations avoids the costs of maintaining an office,
including electronic medical records systems and malpractice
insurance. Doctors also get to keep more predictable work hours.  Technology Driven  The technology also has improved, McCallister said.  Humana, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , spent the past
decade building data analytics and Web-based systems that let
doctors see all the care a patient is receiving. That enables
physicians to avoid duplicating services and prescribing
medicines that don’t interact well, as well staying on top of
preventive screenings. The insurer developed systems making it
easier to file insurance claims, a frequent complaint during the
first round of HMOs.  “My goal is to keep members healthy and out of the
hospital,” McCallister said in a June interview at Bloomberg’s
 New York  offices.  In December, Humana, the second-largest provider of
Medicare plans, paid $790 million for Concentra Inc., an Addison,
Texas-based company that employs 800 doctors at urgent care
centers and clinics in 42 states.  McCallister said his plan is to go “very deep in primary
care in some markets” and not buy hospitals, which Humana owned
in the 1990s.  Scratching Heads  The decision to acquire doctor practices and medical
centers at first caused investors to “scratch their heads about
why we would want to go back in that direction after having
gotten out of owning hospitals and clinics years ago,”
McCallister said.  “I think they’re beginning to understand, especially since
there have been other recent acquisitions by some of our
competitors,” McCallister said on the phone.  To Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , the insurers’ efforts are about applying
more-standardized, proven approaches to treatment. Insurers opt
now to provide procedures and drugs upfront if they prevent
costlier surgeries and hospital stays from untreated conditions.  “Buying up the doctors is buying up the decision makers,
the gatekeepers of health care,” Skolnick said in a telephone
interview.  The acquisitions raised concerns that insurers may
sacrifice services as they seek to curtail spending, similar to
the 1990s’ complaints about the restricted care at HMOs.  Best Interest  “I see a big problem with this model,” says Arthur Caplan,
a bioethicist at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.
“There’s the potential to put cost savings ahead of what might
be in your best interest.  “The marketplace rewards the payers for making profit, not
on patient outcomes,” he said in a telephone interview.  The reorganization of the medical-delivery system has been
encouraged by requirements and incentives in the  2010 U.S.
health law  that called for creation of networks to standardize
treatment and protect patients from falling through the cracks,
as well as other federal regulations. These include pay for
performance, implementation of electronic medical records and a
requirement to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on care.  Premium Increases  The insurance companies can’t depend on higher premiums as
in the past. State commissioners are challenging rate-increase
requests more often, and federal regulators have said they will
review any that exceed 10 percent.  “If members agree to use only the insurer’s physicians and
perhaps a limited network of lower-cost hospitals, insurers can
develop more price-competitive products and contain spending,”
 Jason Gurda , a New York-based analyst at Leerink Swann LLC, said
in a telephone interview.  Insurers are focusing on operations that cater to elderly
patients, said Wayne DeVeydt,  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s chief financial
officer. In June, the Indianapolis-based insurer, the largest in
the U.S. by enrollment, said it would spend $800 million on
CareMore Health Group, the operator of 26 clinics specializing
in Medicare-eligible patients in California, Arizona and  Nevada .  CareMore’s clinics provide “primary care interpreted very
broadly,” DeVeydt said in a telephone interview. “It can even
involve something as small as cutting a patient’s toenails
because one of the biggest reasons diabetics end up in the
hospital is from infections in their toenails.”  Chronic Conditions  Since seniors have more chronic conditions, take more
medications and see more doctors than the general population,
they’ll get greater benefit from coordinated care aimed at
keeping them healthy, DeVeydt said. While plan members with
chronic illnesses account for 20 percent of WellPoint’s
enrollment, they consume 80 percent of the company’s medical
spending, he said.  UnitedHealth, the largest insurer by sales, led the current
wave of acquisitions with a $2.6 billion purchase of managed-
care provider Sierra  Health Services  and its subsidiary
Southwest Medical Associates in 2008.  UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is using the
information and expertise from its doctor practices to sell
health services to employers and other health plans, said  Ana Gupte , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  ‘The Best Mousetrap’  “They’re looking to build the best mousetrap to contain
health-care costs that can help any payer, and use that to build
revenue,” Gupte said by telephone. UnitedHealth has said it
wants to raise the health-service unit’s contribution to revenue
from 22 percent to more than 35 percent in the next three years,
she said.  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S. health insurer, has
decided against buying doctor groups or other providers,
investing instead in electronic medical records technology and
risk-management tools.  The Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer works with
physicians on ways to avoid medicine aimed at treating patients
only when they’re sick, said Joe Zubretsky, Aetna’s chief
financial officer.  “Ten, 15, 20 years ago the nature of the relationship
between payers and providers was more contentious and
combative,” Zubretsky said. “Insurers and doctors now see how
they can work together to ensure coordinated care. That’s
changed the conversation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  