-- 
Investment Club Manager Pleads Guilty to $40 Million Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-22T20:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/investment-club-manager-watson-pleads-guilty-to-40-mln-fraud.html
A Michigan man who ran an
“investment club” pleaded guilty in federal court in  Virginia  to
defrauding more than 750 members out of almost $40 million.  Alan James Watson, 46, entered his guilty plea today in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria to one count of  wire fraud . He
faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison when he is
sentenced on Dec. 9, according to court documents.  “A.J. Watson took huge risks with others’ money and lost
big,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride in Alexandria said in an e-
mailed statement. “He covered up his massive losses through
lies and deceit to members of his investment club.”  From 2006 through July 2009, Watson, of Clinton Township,
Michigan, solicited about $40 million from investors who were
members of a club he created, which the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in a lawsuit described as a “commodity pool.”  Watson told the investors their money was being invested
through an equities-trading system developed by an expert
consultant, Trade LLC, with a promised return on investment of
10 percent per month, according to court papers filed in
Alexandria and in a related lawsuit in  Michigan . Trade LLC,
which is no longer in business, was sued separately by the
commission over activities related to Watson’s club, according
to the CFTC.  Only $6 million was invested with Trade LLC, prosecutors
said. The rest was “secretly invested” in more than 25 other
“high-risk” ventures, losing almost $34 million, the
government said. In 2009, Watson stopped investing in Trade LLC
and “re-deposited” that money in other losing ventures,
according to court documents in Alexandria and Michigan.  Watson created false monthly statements for his investors
showing that they were making money, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Watson, 11-cr-00441, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 