-- 
Iran’s Ahmadinejad Is Weakened, Increasingly Isolated as He Addresses UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/iran-s-ahmadinejad-is-weakened-isolated-as-he-addresses-un.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  has a record of hurling insults at Israel when he
addresses world leaders at the UN General Assembly. The Jewish
state has reason to expect more of the same today.  In a Sept. 21 interview with ABC News, Ahmadinejad referred
to Israel as a “fake regime” whose “oppressive
preconditions” to peace talks would doom that nation. In a
Sept. 13 interview with the Washington Post, he said it is a
“dreadful party, a feared party, the party that was behind the
first World War and the second World War.”  Such rhetorical assaults aside, the Iranian leader will
walk to the General Assembly lectern at a moment of declining
political fortunes at home and increasing isolation in the
Muslim world for backing  Syria ’s violent efforts to crush anti-
government protests.  “Ahmadinejad has a lot of energy and he’s a fighter, but
his political career seems to be in end-game as the 2013 Iranian
presidential elections approach,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at
New York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said in an
interview.  In Iran, Ahmadinejad has appeared to lose a series of power
struggles with the ruling clerics, over appointments to his
government and lately when Islamic courts temporarily overruled
his bid to release the two Americans held on charges of
espionage and illegal entry.  ‘Clerics Struck Back’  “There was a sense over the past year that he was changing
the nature of the regime from one based on clerics to one based
on the Revolutionary Guards and security forces.” Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century Foundation, a  New York- 
based research group, said in an interview. “Some imagined a
kind of quiet coup, but the clerics struck back.”  Ahmadinejad is scheduled to address the UN amid delicate
negotiations over the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks and the danger of renewed violence in the region in the
event the Palestinian Authority’s UN membership bid is thwarted.  The timing of the release yesterday of two American hikers,
who had been jailed by Iran on spy charges for two years, may be
an indication Iran wants to lower tension with the U.S.,”
retired U.S. Ambassador William G. Miller said in an interview.  “This is a signal from the Iranians that they’re
interested in talking,” said Miller, who was involved in
efforts to free the Americans though Search for Common Ground, a
Washington-based organization that focuses on conflict
resolution.  If so, a new verbal assault on  Israel  wouldn’t be a move in
that direction.  U.S. Walkout  A year ago, the U.S. led a walkout of Western diplomats
from the General Assembly to protest Ahmadinejad’s suggestion
that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks may have been orchestrated
to “save the Zionist regime.” U.S. President  Barack Obama 
called the remarks “offensive” and “hateful.”  Obama used his speech to the General Assembly yesterday to
assail Ahmadinejad’s treatment of anti-government protesters and
his defiance of UN  Security Council  resolutions demanding a halt
to Iran’s enrichment of uranium, a process that can lead to
development of nuclear weapons.  “In Iran, we have seen a government that refuses to
recognize the rights of its own people,” Obama said. On Iran’s
disputed nuclear program, he said the government in Tehran
“cannot demonstrate that its program is peaceful, has not met
its obligations and rejected offers that would provide it with
peaceful nuclear power.”  Enemy of Israel  Obama couldn’t legally respond to his own source of
domestic political pressure, the demand of Republican
presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  that the
U.S. bar Ahmadinejad from entering the country for the opening
of the UN session. The Iranian leader is an “enemy not only of
Israel, but also of the  United States ,” Bachmann said in a
statement.  Ahmadinejad’s stalwart support for Syrian President Bashar Assad put him at odds this week with the Arab Parliament, a body
set up by the  Arab League  that asked it to suspend the
membership of Syria.  “We think it is very important for others not to
interfere,” Ahmadinejad said of the situation in Syria in the
Washington Post interview.  On another front, asked for his view of Iran’s shipments of
arms to Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip , Palestinian
Authority spokesman  Nabil Shaath  told reporters that no Arab
government supports that policy.  Iran  has angered  Saudi Arabia 
and other Persian Gulf nations, which blame it for stoking
regional tensions, particularly among the Shiite majority in
Sunni-ruled Bahrain.  Leadership Claim  “He will want to use his UN speech to reassert the Iranian
claim to a kind of pan-Muslim leadership and be a player in the
Arab world,” said Laurenti. “He has been damaged by the Syrian
connection. Iran celebrated the Arab Spring when it toppled
American allies and was caught up short when it hit their own
favorite ally.”  “His way to re-establish street cred is the Israeli-
Palestinian issue,” said Laurenti.  Ahmadinejad also faces pressure from Iran’s ally  Russia  to
resume talks on the nuclear issue with the U.S. and other
Western powers. Russia proposed breaking an impasse by rewarding
Iran for cooperating more closely with the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  by gradually removing UN sanctions.  Talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council plus  Germany  remain stalled since January. The
IAEA has been probing Iran’s nuclear work since 2003, when it
was disclosed the government had hidden atomic research for two
decades.  While Iran has signaled willingness to consider the Russian
proposal, Ahmadinejad hasn’t made any specific commitment and
likely will delay doing so to allow further expansion of nuclear
facilities, according to Kupchan.  “The Iran-Russia dialogue on the nuclear issue is another
attempt to draw Iran into a series of reciprocal concessions,”
Kupchan said. “I’ve seen no sign that Iran is prepared to make
any concessions; instead, they’ll stick with their game plan of
stalling for time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  