-- 
Jamie Dimon Is Right About Basel, Wrong About Bank Rules: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jamie-dimon-is-right-about-basel-wrong-about-new-rules-for-banking-view.html
Bankers don’t like the new rules
that international regulators are drawing up.  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., has gone so far as to
call them “anti-American,” suggesting that the U.S. break with
global regulators and go its own way.  Dimon is absolutely right, but for the wrong reasons. The
new banking rules, known as  Basel III , are too weak, not too
strong.  Basel III represents the third attempt in about two decades
to address one of the biggest threats to the global economy: The
tendency of financial institutions to go bankrupt during bad
times. Among other reforms, the rules require banks to finance
their activities with more equity (or capital) as opposed to
debt. The equity helps guarantee that the bank’s shareholders
will absorb any losses, instead of turning to taxpayers for
bailouts.  Despite Dimon’s complaints, the  capital requirements  aren’t
terribly burdensome. For the biggest banks, they amount to
somewhere between 3 percent and 5 percent of assets, similar to
putting $3,000 to $5,000 down on a $100,000 house. In the
convoluted math of Basel (more on this below), that’s the
equivalent of a risk-weighted capital ratio of 10 percent.  Dimon and other bankers say 10 percent is too much. They
 warn  that the need to raise more equity will increase their
costs, forcing them to charge higher  interest rates  on loans,
with dire repercussions for the economy.  Specious Argument  Their argument is specious at best. Even assuming that
banks’ costs would rise (an assertion many economists question),
there are other ways to offset the added costs. Consider
bankers’ pay. Average U.S. wages in finance are about 70 percent
 higher  than in other industries. Erasing that compensation gap -
- it didn’t exist 30 years ago -- would cut the typical bank’s
operating expenses by almost 20 percent. That’s just about
 enough  to raise the capital ratio from 5 percent to 10 percent
without increasing lending rates, and without impairing
shareholder profits.  To our minds, the strongest argument against Basel is that
it doesn’t go far enough. The best  research  available has found
that much higher capital ratios would be good for the economy
because the benefit of reducing the frequency of financial
disasters far outweighs any costs. The optimal risk-weighted
capital ratio would be about 20 percent, equivalent to equity of
7 percent to 10 percent of total assets, or double the level in
Basel III. What’s more, economists see little risk to growth if
regulators err on the high side, while the dangers of having too
little capital are painfully apparent.  Perverse Incentives  Another argument against Basel is that it creates perverse
incentives in the way it calculates capital. Instead of simply
dividing a bank’s equity by its total assets, the Basel rules
assign each asset a weight that is supposed to correspond to its
risk.  Government bonds , for example, have a zero weight, as if
they had no risk at all. This feature makes them very
attractive, and helped turn  Europe ’s debt problems into a global
crisis by encouraging banks to invest heavily in the high-
yielding debt issued by  Greece  and other countries.  The risk-weighting system is also far too complex and too
easily manipulated to provide a reliable picture of how much
capital a bank really has. For a large bank such as JPMorgan,
coming up with a risk-weighted ratio  requires  sorting assets
into more than 200,000 different buckets. Even unintentional
errors can skew reported capital ratios by several percentage
points. That’s a problem when the starting point is only 10
percent.  British Requirements  The flaws in the Basel rules have led Britain, which has
one of the world’s largest concentrations of big banks, to
create its own, more stringent requirements. Under a  plan  the
U.K.’s Conservative-led government intends to adopt, big banks
must have loss-absorbing capacity -- consisting of equity and
debt that converts into equity in times of stress -- of at least
17 percent and as much as 20 percent.  The U.S. would do well to follow the U.K.’s example and
impose a 20 percent risk-weighted capital requirement for the
biggest banks. To make sure they’re not gaming the system, their
equity should also exceed 10 percent of total assets. This would
be anathema to Dimon and other bankers, but it would prevent
them from taking the kinds of risks that can result in big bills
for taxpayers and economic misery for millions of families.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 