-- 
Japan Beaten by South Korea in China

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-22T00:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/japan-beaten-by-south-korea-in-china.html
South Korea  is beating Japan in
selling products overseas and its job market is improving,
signaling that Japan’s rival is making the most of a yen near
post-World War II highs.  Japan’s exports rose 2.8 percent in August from a year
before, less than all 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey,
government data showed yesterday. South Korea reported an
unexpected drop in unemployment to 3.1 percent, the lowest since
before the 2008 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse tipped
the world into recession.  The latest data show South Korea making bigger inroads than
Japan in exports to  China , the region’s biggest economy and
forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  to grow 9 percent
this year and next. The yen’s strength may encourage more
Japanese manufacturers to follow Panasonic Corp. in shifting
operations overseas, while weakness in the won is aiding Korea
by holding down export prices.  “Korean exporters are enjoying the weaker currency while
Japan suffers,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Tensions between the two
countries may rise as the Japanese will likely complain more
about the currency gaps.”  Japan’s currency has gained more than 5 percent against the
dollar so far this year, reducing exporters’ overseas profits
when repatriated, while the won has declined about 4 percent.
The yen traded at 76.73 per dollar at 9:25 a.m. in Tokyo, after
rising as high as 76.12 yesterday. The won fell 2.2 percent to
1,175.33 against dollar as of 9:19 a.m. in Seoul, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports to China  South Korea’s 16.5 percent gain in shipments to China last
month was more than six times the increase reported by Japan
yesterday.  Finance Minister Jun Azumi signaled yesterday that his
ministry is ready to sell yen again to weaken the Japanese
currency, telling reporters that the government will take
“bold” action as needed. Japan sold 4.51 trillion yen ($59
billion) last month in the nation’s first intervention in the
 currency market  since March. It was the government’s largest
sale in any month since 2004.  Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of rechargeable
batteries, is moving the headquarters of its $57 billion
procurement operation to  Singapore  from  Osaka  in the year
starting April 2012, Masaaki Fujita, an executive in charge of
the business, said last week.  South Korean Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said last
week his nation shouldn’t be blamed by Japan for the won’s
weakness against the yen because investor sentiment is the cause
rather than any government policy of suppressing gains.  ‘Stark Difference’  “There is stark difference in the attitude toward the
economy” between Japan and South Korea, said  Masamichi Adachi ,
senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo  and a former
 Bank of Japan  official. “South Koreans know they have to go
abroad and they are committed to making the most of it because
their domestic market isn’t that big. On the other hand, Japan
tends to fail to get consensus even inside to move the economy
forward.”  The increase in Japanese exports was the first since a
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that left about 19,000 people
dead or missing and caused the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl. Still, the advance was less than the 8 percent median
forecast, dragged down by a 16.4 percent plunge in shipments of
semiconductors and electronic parts.  ’Less Vulnerable’  South Korean exporters “are less vulnerable to the slowing
economies in the U.S. and  Europe , while the Japanese are still
relying heavily on the major economies,” Hyundai Securities’
Lee said.  A Japanese trade ministry survey this month showed that
about 15 percent of large local manufacturing companies expect
operating profit to drop 20 percent or more if the yen is at 76
per dollar. The Japanese currency strengthened to a postwar high
of 75.95 per dollar last month.  The split in the economic performances of the two nations
can also be seen in their job markets. While South Korea’s
jobless rate fell last month,  Japan ’s unemployment rate rose to
4.7 percent from 4.6 percent in July.  South Korea’s job numbers reflect the nation’s “strong”
economic fundamentals and are a “big surprise,” Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a government meeting yesterday.  The largest job gains were in the electricity,
transportation, telecommunication and finance sectors, which saw
a 6.7 percent increase, according to Statistics Korea.  Japan’s Expansion  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News see Japan’s gross
domestic product expanding at a 5.7 percent annual pace this
quarter, reversing three consecutive periods of economic
contraction. The rate of expansion is then expected to slow into
2012, the economists said.  Standard & Poor’s  last week cut its forecast for Japan’s
economic growth this year to close to zero from its pre-quake
estimate of 1.3 percent, citing a “less robust” rebound from
the disaster than it expected.  South  Korea ’s economy grew 3.4 percent from a year earlier
in the three months ended June, after expanding over 4 percent
for six straight quarters.  The IMF cut its world growth forecast on Sept. 20 to 4
percent in 2011 and 2012, compared with June forecasts of 4.3
percent this year and 4.5 percent next year. It also reduced its
U.S. growth projection for this year to 1.5 percent from 2.5
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  