-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline as Fed, Europe Watchdog Highlight Risks to Banks

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-09-22T06:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/japanese-stocks-decline-as-fed-stimulus-plan-disappoints-investors.html
Japanese stocks fell the most in
more than a week after the  Federal Reserve  pointed to
“significant downside risks” to the U.S. growth outlook and
Europe’s risk watchdog said threats to the region’s banks have
increased “considerably.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  led declines among
lenders on growing international turmoil and after BNP Paribas
SA said Japan’s banking industry is “deteriorating.” Honda
Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker, slid 3.9 percent.
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  plunged 12 percent after a report it will lose
the role of exclusive provider of Apple Inc.’s iPhone in Japan.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average lost 2.1 percent to 8,560.26
at the 3 p.m. close of trading, the biggest drop since Sept. 12.
The broader Topix index dropped 1.7 percent to 744.54 after
investors were disappointed by a Fed plan to support growth in
the world’s biggest economy by buying $400 billion of longer-
term debt.  “The market had priced in the Fed’s plan,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value. “It
won’t boost the economy much, while it may have a negative
impact on earnings of financial institutions.”  Investors focused on the central bank’s statement pointing
to “significant downside risks to the economic outlook,
including strains in global financial markets.”  ‘No Surprises’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 2.9 percent yesterday
in  New York , the biggest drop since Aug. 18, after the Fed
announced a policy designed to stimulate borrowing and
investment. Financial shares plunged after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its credit ratings for three major U.S. banks.
Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.7 percent today.  “The Fed delivered no surprises, leaving markets facing
sovereign-debt issues in  Europe  to which there is still no clear
solution,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300
million at White Funds Management in Sydney. “Under the surface,
we are moving quickly into a secondary credit crisis.”  The Topix has lost about 17 percent this year amid concern
U.S. growth is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage
the banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest
export markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the
index to 0.9 times estimated book value, near the lowest since
March 2009.  ‘Considerable’ Threats  Trading volume on the first section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange totaled 1.2 trillion yen ($15.6 billion) ahead of a
market holiday in Japan tomorrow, about 14 percent less than
this year’s daily average of 1.4 trillion yen.  The European Systemic Risk Board urged swift action from
policy makers to tackle threats to the financial system that
have increased “considerably” as the region’s sovereign debt
crisis pressures banks.  “Key risks stem from potential further adverse feedback
effects between sovereign risks, funding vulnerabilities within
the European Union banking sector, and a weakening of growth
outlooks,” the ESRB, Europe’s risk watchdog, said in a
statement late yesterday. “Decisive and swift action is
required from all authorities.”  Japanese lenders tumbled today after BNP Paribas initiated
coverage on seven of the country’s largest banks, saying they
have little chance of improving profitability.  Mitsubishi UFJ, the country’s biggest listed bank, declined
1.5 percent to 332 yen.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  slipped 1.8
percent to 112 yen, while  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
dropped 1.8 percent to 2,089 yen.  ‘Allowed to Fail’  Banking shares also fell in Tokyo today after Moody’s cut
credit ratings for Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
Wells Fargo & Co. The ratings service said “there is an
increased possibility that the government might allow a large
financial institution to fail, taking the view that contagion
could be limited.”  Indexes tracking makers of cars and electronics contributed
the most to declines on the Topix. Honda dropped 3.9 percent to
2,275 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker,
fell 1.7 percent to 2,628 yen.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, slid 1.8 percent to 1,484 yen.  Softbank, Japan’s sole iPhone carrier, slumped 12 percent
to 2,282 yen, the steepest decline on the Nikkei benchmark,
after the Nikkei Business magazine reported that  KDDI Corp. (9433)  will
begin selling the newest model of Apple’s smartphone in the
domestic market. KDDI gained 0.8 percent to 624,000 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 