-- 
Keegan Bradley Takes Two-Shot First-Round Lead at PGA Tour Championship

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jason-dufner-holds-a-one-shot-lead-in-season-ending-tour-championship-golf.html
Keegan Bradley will play with  Jason Dufner  in the second round of golf’s Tour Championship, a month
after the pair contested a playoff in the U.S. PGA Championship.  Bradley shot a 6-under-par 64 yesterday at East Lake Golf
Club in Atlanta to lead Dufner by two strokes at the last of the
U.S. PGA Tour’s playoff events. World No. 1  Luke Donald  of
 England  is in a tie for second place with Dufner and his U.S.
countryman Chez Reavie.  PGA Tour rookie Bradley beat Dufner Aug. 14 in a playoff at
nearby Atlanta Athletic Club to win the last major tournament of
the year. The pair is scheduled to tee off in the final group
today at 2:15 p.m. local time.  “That’s going to be really fun,” Bradley, 25, told
reporters. “It’s kind of cool that, coming back to Atlanta,
we’re going to get to play with each other again.”  Dufner, 34, lost a three-hole playoff at the  PGA
Championship  by one shot as Bradley became the first player
since Francis Ouimet in 1913 to win in his major-tournament
debut in the U.S.  “Both of us will be more focused on tomorrow’s round than
what happened a month or five weeks ago,” Dufner told reporters
yesterday. “Maybe some thoughts here or there will come back
and forth.”  $10 Million  The winner of the Tour Championship, which features the top
30 players on the FedEx Cup points list, gets a $1.4 million
check. The winner of the season-long FedEx Cup receives $10
million.  The four-tournament playoff for the FedEx Cup is in its
fifth year. Tiger Woods won the bonus two of the first three
years and  Vijay Singh  locked up the 2008 title before the final
event was played.  Jim Furyk , who won the cup last year, didn’t
qualify for the Tour Championship this year.  Any of the top five players in the standings can win the
FedEx Cup with a victory at the Tour Championship, which is
worth 2,500 points.  American  Webb Simpson , who finished fifth at last week’s
BMW Championship, leads with 2,500 points. He’s followed by
 Dustin Johnson  of the U.S. with 2,250, England’s Justin Rose
(2,000), Donald (1,800) and  Matt Kuchar  (1,600).  As things stand, Donald would win the FedEx Cup, with
Bradley finishing second.  ‘Added Pressure’  “There’s a little bit of added pressure,” Donald told
reporters. “ Not just FedEx Cup champion but winning the Tour
Championship and potentially Player of the Year. There’s a lot
of things that go along with winning this week for me and a few
of the other guys.”  Dufner, Donald and Reavie are a shot ahead of Australian
duo  Adam Scott  and Jason Day, and American trio Kuchar,  Hunter Mahan  and Charles Howell III.  Phil Mickelson  is in a group of seven players a stroke
further back at 2 under.  Simpson and Johnson, in the final group on the opening day,
completed their rounds in rain that was forecast to continue
through the night. Johnson is at even par, a shot behind
Simpson.  Woods isn’t in the field for the second straight year. The
14-time major tournament winner, who has slipped to No. 49 in
the  Official World Golf Ranking  during a 22-month winless
drought, wasn’t among the 125 qualifiers for the playoffs this
year. Furyk finished 22nd at the BMW event, bumping him down to
36th on the points list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  