-- 
Jefferies Declines After CEO Handler Sells $25 Million Stake to Leucadia

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-09-22T18:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jefferies-falls-as-handler-sells-25-million-stake-to-leucadia.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  dropped as
much as 11 percent in New York trading after Chief Executive
Officer Richard Handler sold a $25.2 million stake in the firm
to  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , its largest stockholder.  Jefferies declined 69 cents, or 5.4 percent, to $12.16 at
1:29 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Handler
sold 2 million shares at $12.58 each, according to a regulatory
filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The firm had slid 52 percent this year through yesterday.  Handler said in a memo to employees, provided to Bloomberg
News by an outside investor, that the stock sales were tied to
the vesting of company stock awards that required “significant
tax payments in cash.” Handler had taken on debt to pay the
taxes because he had previously been restricted from selling any
shares, according to the memo.  “While I am not happy about reducing my interest in our
firm,” Handler said in the memo, “being out of debt is the
prudent thing for me and my family in a turbulent world.”  Thomas Tarrant, a Jefferies spokesman, confirmed the
authenticity of the memo and declined further comment. Handler,
50, didn’t immediately return a telephone call to his office in
 New York .  Handler’s sale of Jefferies stock was the first reported by
the New York-based firm’s CEO since May 2006, according to data
compiled by the Washington Service. He sold 278,960 shares at
that time at an average price of $63.61 each for a charitable
trust created to aid underprivileged youth, according to filings
and a company press release at the time.  28% Stake  The sale to Leucadia, which reduced Handler’s holdings to
12 million shares from 14 million, may have avoided swamping the
market. The average daily trading volume for Jefferies stock is
about 1.83 million shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  New York-based Leucadia reported in a separate filing that
it now holds 56.5 million Jefferies shares, the equivalent of a
28 percent stake.  Leucadia “made a great buy,” Handler said in the employee
memo, adding that he is “gratified by their belief in and
support of Jefferies.”  Earlier this week, Jefferies said fiscal third-quarter
profit fell 49 percent on a drop in fixed-income trading
revenue. Profit for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $23
million, or 10 cents a share, excluding an acquisition, compared
with an average estimate of 20 cents by eight analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  