-- 
Jeronimo Martins Says It May Not Decide in 2011 on Third National Market

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-22T14:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jeronimo-martins-may-not-decide-in-2011-on-third-national-market.html
Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA (JMT) ,
Portugal’s biggest retailer by market value and Poland’s largest
discount grocer, said it’s too early to determine whether it
will decide this year on entering a third country.  “There is a strong will to enter a third market,” Luis Palha, chairman of the Lisbon-based retailer’s financial-matters
committee, said in an interview today at a conference organized
by  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  in Cascais, Portugal. “Whether this will happen
by the end of the year, it’s too early to say.”  Palha said on July 28 that Jeronimo Martins may announce
plans this year to enter a new market, part of an effort to
counter a slump in Portugal after the country’s government
sought aid from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union in April. The retailer said that day that an expansion
team is looking into business opportunities in South America,
including Brazil.  Jeronimo Martins gets most of its revenue from Biedronka,
its Polish discount-grocery brand. Its Pingo Doce supermarket
chain and Recheio cash and carry outlets compete in Portugal
with units of  Sonae (SON)  SGPS SA.  “Portugal will continue to represent less in terms of
Jeronimo Martins’s business in the future,” compared with about
45 percent of group revenue now, Palha said. In Poland, there is
“little potential for acquisitions at this moment,” so the
company’s main strategy is expanding existing operations.  “The assets that have come up for sale in  Poland  aren’t
compatible with our format, but that doesn’t mean that if
something very important arises, we wouldn’t make the effort,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anabela Reis at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net  