-- 
JPMorgan Sues American Century Over $848 Million Share Sale

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jpmorgan-sues-american-century-over-848-million-cibc-share-sale.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued mutual
fund firm American Century Cos. over claims it was shortchanged
in an $848 million optioned-share sale to Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce.  American Century failed to disclose material information
regarding the sale and the shares weren’t purchased at their
fair market value, lawyers for JPMorgan said in a public version
of the complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. The
complaint was initially filed under seal.  “The allegation that American Century breached an option
agreement is without merit and the edited complaint filed in
Delaware yesterday is an inaccurate and incomplete
representation of the facts,” American Century said in a
statement e-mailed by Chris Doyle, a spokesman for the firm.  CIBC,  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank, announced in July that
it agreed to buy a 41 percent stake in American Century from
JPMorgan. The cash acquisition is the third-largest purchase by
the Toronto-based bank.  JPMorgan purchased a roughly 45 percent interest in  Kansas
City , Missouri-based American Century for about $900 million in
January 1998, according to the complaint. Under a 2009 option
agreement between American and JPMorgan, American could buy all
of the shares JPMorgan owned in the firm and resell them to a
third party.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , said in its complaint that it
learned of the share sale through a public announcement. The
transaction was completed on Aug. 31.  Withheld Information  “American Century improperly withheld information
regarding the CIBC stock sale from JPMorgan’s director designee
on American Century’s board,” lawyers for the bank said in the
redacted complaint.  American Century “understated its financial position” to
an independent adviser, causing a report that served as the
basis for the share repurchase to understate the firm’s fair
market value, according to the complaint.  JPMorgan is seeking a trial to determine unspecified
damages.  American Century accused JPMorgan of filing the complaint
as a “tactical reaction to an adverse result” in another
matter recently concluded in favor of the firm. Doyle declined
to identify that matter.  “The heavily edited complaint removes information that
reflects negatively on JPMorgan’s conduct in the other matter,”
American Century said in the statement. “We believe that the
information JPM removed from the complaint is not confidential
and we will soon be taking appropriate action to have the
redacted information unsealed.”  The case is JPMorgan Chase & Co. v. American Century
Companies Inc., CA6875, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sophia Pearson} in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 