-- 
Galleon, JPMorgan, UBS, Google, BofA, AIG in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-22T10:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jpmorgan-ubs-google-barclays-bofa-aig-in-court-news.html
An ex-Galleon Group LLC trader and
expert-networking consultant were sentenced yesterday to 10
years and four years in prison for their roles in a nationwide
insider-trading scandal, just three weeks before  Raj Rajaratnam ,
the man at the center of the investigation, is to learn his
fate.  Zvi Goffer , the trader, and Winifred Jiau, who worked for
Primary Global Research LLC, were convicted in June in separate
Manhattan federal court trials. Jiau was sentenced yesterday to
four years after the government asked for as long as 10 years.
Goffer received a 10-year term following a U.S. request that he
serve almost 13 years.  Rajaratnam, 54, co-founder of Galleon, was found guilty in
May of directing the largest hedge-fund insider-trading ring. He
should be given a prison term of as long as 24 1/2 years when
sentenced, prosecutors said. His sentence was postponed
yesterday from Sept. 27 to Oct. 13.  The sentences for Goffer and Jiau are more severe than in
typical insider-trading cases where a defendant gets and trades
on information only once, said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor
at Columbia Law School in  New York .  “These were professionals engaging in this as their
regular course of business,” Coffee said. “They went about it
systematically.”  Dozens of people have been charged with participating in
overlapping insider-trading rings by the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in Manhattan. The Goffer and Rajaratnam trials
featured phone conversations secretly recorded by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. The two, along with Jiau, were
convicted based partly on the testimony of co-conspirators
cooperating with prosecutors.  Jurors at Jiau’s trial saw instant electronic messages that
a hedge fund analyst sent his boss while they were on the phone
with her. The analyst also recorded the calls.  Goffer, who co-founded Incremental Capital LLC after he was
fired from Galleon in 2008, was convicted of all 14 criminal
counts against him. Goffer’s brother, Emanuel, and Michael
Kimelman were convicted at the same trial. Prosecutors said Zvi
Goffer headed a ring that made more than $10 million trading in
3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels
Corp. based on information misappropriated by two lawyers.  Prosecutors had asked U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
to send Goffer to prison for as long as 12 years and seven
months.  Goffer, 34, claimed he’s a changed man who deserves a
lesser sentence.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont, California, was convicted of one
count each of conspiracy and securities fraud. A jury found her
guilty of passing earnings and other information about  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir
Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  Prosecutors argued Jiau should get eight to 10 years in
prison in papers filed with U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.
Jiau’s lawyers downplayed her role in the chain of inside-
traders and called the government’s suggested sentence
“draconian.”  “If Ms. Jiau was at the ‘heart’ of anything in this case,
it was of the gang that couldn’t shoot straight,” they said.  The cases are U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, and U.S. v.
Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, here and here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  AT&T Says It Wants Trial of U.S. Suit to Block T-Mobile Deal  AT&T Inc. (T)  is eager for a trial of the U.S. Justice
Department’s lawsuit challenging its proposed acquisition of
wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc., a lawyer for the company
said.  There was no talk of settlement yesterday in federal court
in Washington as Mark Hansen, an attorney for AT&T, told U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle that the company wants to get
to trial as quickly as possible. Huvelle, who had earlier told
the parties to come prepared to discuss settlement prospects,
set a trial date for Feb. 13.  “We’re seeking a prompt trial because we’re very
interested in closing this transaction,” Hansen, of Kellogg,
Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington, said
during the hour-long hearing. “We need to have the cloud of
uncertainty removed. We’re already a month beyond where we want
to be.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
case seeking to stop the $39 billion deal.  AT&T is still “hopeful” it can address the Justice
Department’s antitrust concerns and reach a settlement, Michael
Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail after the
hearing.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Servier Founder Charged in Deaths Granted 4 Million-Euro Bail  Jacques Servier, chairman of France’s second-largest
drugmaker, must post bail of 4 million euros ($5.51 million) and
his freedom may be restricted as he faces charges that he helped
hide the risks of a drug suspected of causing the deaths of as
many as 2,000 people.  Servier and five affiliated companies of  Laboratoires
Servier , which he founded, were charged yesterday by French
magistrates, the company said in a statement. Servier must
provide a financial guarantee of 6 million euros by Dec. 15,
according to the release.  Servier, 89, was charged with involuntary manslaughter,
aggravated deception and fraud, the newspaper Le Monde reported,
citing his lawyer. The company remains innocent until proven
guilty and will “finally be able to defend itself in a judicial
setting,” it said in the statement.  Mediator, the diabetes drug at the root of the case, was
sold in France for 33 years until it was withdrawn in November
2009 on safety concerns. It was widely used as an appetite
suppressant.  JPMorgan, Citigroup Seek Dismissal of Thornburg Lawsuit  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and other banks asked
a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by defunct Thornburg Mortgage Inc.,
saying the complaint didn’t adequately show that fraud occurred.  Trustee Joel Sher sued the banks for $2 billion in April,
alleging they helped push Thornburg, now called TMST Inc., into
a “free-fall” bankruptcy. Making “unjustified” margin calls,
the banks extracted more than $700 million of margin and
interest payments from Thornburg, then sold their collateral and
left the company to file for Chapter 11 protection during the
credit crisis in May 2009, Sher claimed.  The banks, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc and UBS AG, or their affiliates, were trading
partners of Thornburg’s in repurchase and swap transactions used
to finance its mortgage business, the banks said in a Sept. 20
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Baltimore. Under the repo
agreements, they could make margin calls at any time if the
counterparty had a margin deficit, they said.  Sher didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment
on the banks’ filing. He has updated the suit since it was
initially filed.  JPMorgan was named in the TMST suit because it bought
assets from Bear Stearns Cos., a lender to Thornburg. Sher filed
at least eight lawsuits from April 28 to April 30, seeking money
from  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and other companies.  The bankruptcy case is Thornburg Mortgage Inc., 09-17787,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  UBS Moved Executive in FSA Risk-Management Case to Zurich  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  executive accused of risk-management failures and
facing a potential fine by the U.K. finance regulator was moved
as early as 2008 from  London  to Zurich by Switzerland’s biggest
bank.  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of UBS’s
wealth-management division in London, will challenge the
Financial Services Authority at a court  hearing  in November over
its attempt to fine him for not ensuring the unit had controls
to prevent unauthorized trades that began in 2006, according to
three people familiar with the case. He now works in risk
management, two people with knowledge of his role said.  The FSA fined UBS 8 million pounds ($12.5 million) in 2009,
at the time the third-largest penalty imposed by the regulator,
for failing to prevent employees in the international wealth-
management business from making as many as 50 unauthorized
trades a day with funds from at least 39 customer accounts. The
case is an example of UBS failing to police errant trading in
London years before the bank said this week it lost $2.3 billion
from unauthorized trades.  “Now that the machine has got going, every single bad
thing is going to come out,” said Fred Ponzo, a capital markets
adviser at Greyspark Partners in London.  Pottage was authorized by the FSA until Dec. 15, 2008,
according to the watchdog’s website. He had authorization for
roles including chief executive, significant management,
director, apportionment and oversight, investment adviser and
insurance mediator.  Pottage declined to comment when reached at a UBS number in
Zurich. Yves Kaufmann, a UBS spokesman in Zurich, also declined
to comment.  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.
Tobias Lux, a spokesman at the Swiss regulator, declined to
comment on the case. Pottage’s lawyer, John Fordham, also
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Loses Bid to Quash Request for Rehearing  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm lost a bid to quash
investors’ request for a new hearing on how he calculates who
gets compensated for losses in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York said Aug. 16 that
trustee Irving Picard can ignore fictitious profits on money
Madoff never invested when calculating losses and who is
entitled to be repaid. Some investors who wouldn’t get paid
under the formula asked for a “rehearing,” saying the appeals
court ruled differently in a previous case.  Picard’s move to strike the request was denied, according
to a court filing Sept. 20.  A group of Madoff investors had urged the court to require
Picard to use their final account statements, which included
fictitious profits on money Madoff never invested, to determine
losses. Picard’s formula limits the number of investors who can
claim money, and cuts the size of many claims.  Asking the court earlier this month to refuse to rehear the
issue, Picard said in a filing the investors failed to follow
the court’s rules. Some investors filed a 24-page petition
without asking for permission to file an oversized brief, he
said. Told by the court to shorten it, “the petitioners seek to
dodge the court’s order,” Picard said.  “They split the arguments into two 15-page petitions, put
some of the appellants on one petition and the rest on the
other, and ask the court to consider the petitions as one,”
Picard said. “The court should strike the newly filed
petitions.”  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in North Carolina,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud.  The case is In re Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 10-2378, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Google Says Oracle Seeking $2 Billion in Android Dispute  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  lowered its damages request
to at least $2 billion in a patent and copyright dispute over
Android software, according to a court filing.  Google, which said the estimate includes $1.2 billion in
damages for unjust enrichment in 2012 alone, asked a federal
judge to exclude parts of the calculation that it says aren’t
supported by the evidence.  In July, U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco 
threw out Oracle’s earlier estimate that it’s entitled to as
much as $6.1 billion in damages in a lawsuit claiming Google
infringed its Java patents when it created the Android operating
system, now running on more than 150 million mobile devices.  Oracle’s new damages report “ignores governing law and the
guidelines of this court’s July 22, 2011, order,” Google lawyer
Robert Van Nest said in a letter to Alsup Sept. 20.  Alsup ruled in July that a new estimate should start as low
as $100 million, a figure that Mountain View, California-based
Google was offered in 2006 to license Java from Sun Microsystems
Inc. Google rejected that offer by Sun, which Oracle later
acquired.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, the largest maker of database software,
declined to comment on the Google filing.  The two companies have made little headway this week in
negotiations aimed at resolving the lawsuit, a person briefed on
the talks said. Google Chief Executive Larry Page and Oracle CEO
Larry Ellison participated in a settlement conference that
lasted as long as 10 hours on Sept. 19 and returned to federal
court in San Jose, California, yesterday for further meetings
with a magistrate judge.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco)  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials  Rambus Was ‘Dethroned’ by Intel, Micron Attorney Tells Jury  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s computer memory failed to become an industry
standard because it was “dethroned” by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , not as a
result of collusion by rivals, a lawyer for  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU)  told a jury.  In closing arguments at a state-court trial in San
Francisco, William Price, a lawyer for Micron, said yesterday
that Rambus was aware of technical problems with its version of
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, when it signed a 1996
contract to work with Santa Clara, California-based Intel Corp.,
the world’s largest chipmaker. The jury began deliberating
yesterday.  The relationship was “conceived in fraud,” Price told
jurors. “Intel lived with Rambus” in an attempt to develop
Rambus-designed memory, or RDRAM, into a product, he said.  “What Intel concluded at the end was RDRAM was not the
product they thought it was, and that Rambus was not the company
they thought it was,” Price said. Intel “selected Rambus to
become king, and Intel dethroned Rambus.”  Rambus contends that Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Ichon,
South Korea-based  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  colluded to cut the
prices of their own DDR, or double data rate, memory chips and
deserted their commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a
niche role.  Rambus, which doesn’t make the chips it designs, said it
would have made $3.95 billion in royalties without the alleged
conspiracy. Under California law, a jury finding of damages in
that amount would be automatically tripled to $11.9 billion.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Banks Don’t Provide Swap Costs, JPMorgan Executive Tells Court  Banks don’t typically disclose what they’re charging
municipalities to arrange derivatives, a practice that isn’t
required, Antonia Creanza, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker on
trial for fraud, told a Milan court.  “Every time I sold a derivative to a public
administration, even before getting to the details, the first
question was always, ‘How does the bank make money?’” Creanza
told the court yesterday under questioning by her lawyer. “I
would explain that we would retain a margin. Never has a legal
adviser told me, ‘Look you need to detail the gross margin,’”
she said.  JPMorgan, UBS AG,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa Bank Plc are
on trial on charges of mis-selling swaps to Milan, derivatives
that adjusted payments on a 1.7 billion-euro ($2.4 billion) bond
offering from 2005. Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo said the banks
misled Milan by telling the city it could save about 55 million
euros with the bond sale and a series of swaps. Robledo says the
banks earned 101 million euros in hidden fees. The banks deny
the charges.  After selling swaps to municipalities for UniCredit SpA and
a unit of Dexia SA, Creanza told the court she joined JPMorgan’s
interest-rate derivatives team in 2004, then headed by Antonio
Polverino. JPMorgan was one many banks that courted Milan, she
said.  From December 2004 to March 2005, before Milan’s public
tender for the financing, JPMorgan discussed various financing
scenarios with the city, Creanza told the court.  For more, click here.  Lehman to Drop Appeal of Ruling in $11 Billion Barclays Suit  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which is gathering creditor
support for a $65 billion liquidation plan before a November
vote, said it will drop its attempt to collect $11 billion from
Barclays Plc in a dispute over the sale of Lehman operations in
2008.  Lehman also won’t appeal a Sept. 14 ruling by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan rejecting its claim
that Barclays owed about $500 million for allegedly unpaid
bonuses. Peck previously ruled against Lehman in the larger suit
against London-based Barclays.  “While there are aspects of the decisions with which we do
not agree, we are also cognizant of the burdens that continued
litigation of these issues would place on the court and the
assets of the estate,” the defunct firm said in a statement
yesterday.  After appealing Peck’s ruling in the bigger suit, Lehman
said yesterday it “respects the time and effort the court has
devoted to the serious issues raised by the estate.” Because of
the cost of continuing the litigation, Lehman said, “we have
determined that we will not pursue these issues through appeals,
believing that the resources of the court and the estate will be
better employed at this point to move the bankruptcy toward a
conclusion.”  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,
has spent about $1.4 billion on lawyers and managers since its
2008 bankruptcy filing, the largest in U.S. history, with assets
of $639 billion.  The New York-based firm’s bankruptcy became the most
expensive in U.S. history in April 2010, when it topped the $757
million cost of energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year
liquidation, according to data compiled by Lynn LoPucki, a
bankruptcy-law professor at the University of California, Los
Angeles.  Lehman’s creditors range from banks and hedge funds to the
New York Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as well as
individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Lehman filed for bankruptcy
on Sept. 15, 2008.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  BofA’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Deal Defended by Investors  A lawyer for a group of investors that includes  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  defended their $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with
Bank of America Corp., saying a delay in getting court approval
costs them money.  “They believe this is a very positive settlement,” Robert
Madden, who represents 22 institutional investors, told a
federal judge in Manhattan at a court hearing yesterday.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley heard arguments about
whether the settlement should be considered for approval in
federal court or returned to state court in New York, where it
was originally filed.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the mortgage-bond trustee
that sought approval for the settlement, opposes moving the case
to federal court. The removal by an investor group -- Walnut
Place LLC and related entities -- threatens to “significantly
delay” the state-court proceeding, the bank said in a court
filing.  “Delay hurts investors,” Madden said in an interview
after the hearing. When Bank of New York filed the proceeding in
state court, a judge set a November hearing to consider
approval.  The proposed settlement resolves a fight with the
institutional investors, which wanted Bank of America to buy
back home loans that were packaged into bonds by Countrywide
Financial Corp. Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Liberty Media Fends Off Bank of New York Challenge to Spinoff  Liberty Media Corp. fended off Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Co.’s legal challenge to its splitoffs of the Liberty
Capital and Liberty Starz tracking stocks.  The Delaware Supreme Court yesterday upheld a ruling that
clears the way for Liberty, controlled by billionaire John
Malone, to transfer assets of the two tracking stocks to
shareholders.  The splitoffs are part of Malone’s efforts to simplify
Liberty’s financial structure and make it more attractive to
investors,  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
Ltd. in New York, said last year.  Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, declined to
comment on the court ruling in an e-mailed statement. Liberty
Media executives plan to complete the splitoff of the units
tomorrow, Courtnee Ulrich, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  As part of the deals, officials of Englewood, Colorado-
based Liberty want to redeem outstanding shares of the units in
exchange for shares in a newly formed company.  Liberty Starz holds Liberty Media’s interest in television
company Starz Entertainment, according to the parent company’s
website. Liberty Capital holds assets, including production and
distribution company Starz Media LLC, and investments in  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) , Time Warner Cable Inc. and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The Supreme Court case is Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. v. Liberty Media Corp., 284, 2011, Delaware
Supreme Court (Dover). The Chancery Court case is Liberty Media
Corp. v. Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co., 5702, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  AIG Hires Ex-IRS Deputy Counsel Potter to Protect Tax Assets  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer,
hired Clarissa Potter, former deputy chief counsel of the
Internal Revenue Service, to help protect tax assets accumulated
by the firm.  Potter will be deputy tax director, reporting to Tal
Kaissar, director of tax, the insurer said yesterday in a
statement.  Losses at New York-based AIG and its subsidiaries helped
rack up more than  $25 billion  of so-called deferred tax assets
as of Dec. 31 that may lower obligations to governments. Chief
Executive Officer Robert Benmosche, 67, said last month the
insurer is assembling a “world-class team” to manage the
assets and that they may be used for buybacks when AIG is
prepared to repurchase stock.  “The complexity of AIG’s global structure requires a
holistic approach to compliance with domestic and international
tax law,” Kaissar said in the statement. Potter’s “first-hand
understanding of tax policy makes her uniquely positioned to
help AIG in this regard.”  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 