-- 
Judge Approves Madoff Trustee’s $1 Billion Settlement With Tremont Funds

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-22T14:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/judge-approves-madoff-trustee-s-1-billion-settlement-with-tremont-funds.html
A judge approved a $1 billion
settlement of a lawsuit by liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm
and hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings Inc.  In the deal approved today by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , trustee  Irving Picard  will accept a cash payment of
more than $1 billion from funds associated with Tremont. In
exchange, the Tremont funds will be allowed to make claims on
the Madoff estate of about $3 billion, according to court
filings.  The settlement is “fair and reasonable,” Lifland said.  Among the parties settling were Oppenheimer Acquisition
Corp., an affiliate of the Oppenheimer mutual funds that bought
Tremont, and Oppenheimer’s parents, MassMutual Holding LLC and
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.  Earlier this month,  New York  Life Insurance Co. and six
other insurance companies assailed the settlement. As limited
partners of the hedge-fund firm’s Opportunity III fund, they
said they would lose if a court rules that the  Ponzi scheme ’s
so-called net winners should be compensated, because they
wouldn’t be allowed to recalculate their claims. A U.S. appeals
court yesterday denied Picard’s move to strike a request by
Madoff investors for a second hearing on the issue.  Picard sued Tremont and related entities for $2.1 billion,
saying they ignored warnings that Madoff could be running a
Ponzi scheme and profited from it, according to a complaint
unsealed in March. The payment from Tremont, the second-biggest
so-called feeder into Madoff’s multibillion-dollar fraud, will
add to the $2.6 billion in the fund for Madoff customers, Picard
has said.  The $3 billion in claims on the Madoff estate allowed to
Tremont will give its investors “the potential to recover a
substantial portion of their losses incurred as a result of
Madoff’s fraud,” said Montieth Illingworth, a spokesman for the
hedge fund firm, in an e-mailed statement when the deal was
announced in July.  Fairfield Deals  The settlement follows two deals in May with funds related
to the Fairfield Greenwich Group, the biggest feeder fund in
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  In those agreements, Picard dropped
efforts to collect about $4 billion in transfers, and the funds
in return reduced their claims on the bankrupt Madoff estate.  Picard’s biggest settlement was his $5 billion share of a
deal with the estate of Jeffry Picower, among the larger
individual investors with Madoff. Counting that money, which is
tied up in a court challenge, he said in July he has raised more
than $8.6 billion, or almost half of the $17.3 billion in
principal lost by Madoff customers who filed claims.  The case is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc., 10-5310,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 