-- 
Judge Dismisses Part of $198 Million Suit Against Bernard Madoff’s Family

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/judge-dismisses-part-of-198-million-suit-against-madoffs-1-.html
Bernard L. Madoff’s family won
dismissal of part of a $198 million lawsuit by the liquidator of
the con man’s firm, while the judge left  Irving Picard  free to
pursue most of his claims.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  struck Picard’s
claims for some transfers of money out of the jailed Ponzi
scheme operator’s firm. Picard, who sued Madoff’s brother, two
sons and niece, is free to amend his suit, the judge said in a
court filing yesterday.  Picard’s 2009 lawsuit against the brother, Peter Madoff,
sons Andrew and Mark Madoff and niece Shana Madoff Swanson, all
of whom held senior positions at the defunct money-management
firm, claimed they spent more than $198 million of investors’
money and treated the con man’s investment firm as their
“family piggy bank.”  Instead of preventing Madoff’s scheme, they stood by and
profited from it, taking money out of the New York-based firm to
finance their business ventures, pay credit card bills for
restaurants, vacations and clothing, and buy cars, boats and
multimillion-dollar vacation homes, he said.  ‘Derelict in Duties’  Peter Madoff  was chief compliance officer at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Madoff’s sons, Andrew and
Mark, were co-directors of trading at the investment firm, and
Shana Madoff was compliance director, according to Picard.  Mark Madoff committed suicide in December.  “Mark and Andrew Madoff had no prior knowledge of  Bernard
Madoff ’s crimes and contacted the U.S. Department of Justice and
the SEC immediately after their father told them he had
defrauded his investment advisory clients,”  Martin Flumenbaum ,
a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “Whether or not the trustee amends his
complaint to reassert some or all of the claims that were
dismissed today, we fully expect to prevail on the merits.”  Charles Spada, who has been representing Peter Madoff, had
no comment on the ruling.  Mark Smith , a lawyer for Shana Madoff, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  The family members’ responsibilities “extended through
trading operations, customer relationships, and legal and
regulatory compliance, yet they were completely derelict in
these duties and responsibilities,” Picard has said.  The family tried to get the suit dismissed, saying their
involvement with the firm was legitimate and they were let down
by Madoff.  Refusing to dismiss the entire suit, Lifland said the
family’s failure to stop Madoff’s fraud was “unsurprising given
their close familial relationship with Madoff and proximity” to
his firm. However, Picard’s suit contains “some correctable
pleading deficiencies” that need to be amended, he said.  The case is Picard v. Peter Madoff, 09-1503,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 