-- 
Jyske Bank Cuts Jobs, Raises Rates to Counter Crisis Fallout

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-22T08:32:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/jyske-bank-cuts-jobs-raises-rates-to-counter-crisis-fallout.html
Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-
largest listed lender, will 250 jobs, close branches and raise
 interest rates  to counter the fallout of a local banking crisis
as economic growth falters and funding costs rise.  Jyske Bank also said it will buy the leasing business of
rival Spar Bank Nord A/S in an effort to boost income. The 250
job cuts and closures of six branches will lower costs by as
much as 400 million kroner ($73 million) a year from 2013, the
Silkeborg, Denmark-based lender said today.  Denmark is  Scandinavia ’s worst performing economy as a
local banking crisis and falling housing market undermine
 consumer confidence . The country’s lenders are struggling to
stay profitable as international creditors balk at the European
Union’s toughest bank resolution laws, in place since October.
Two Danish banks have failed this year, triggering the EU’s
first bail-ins.  The central bank this week lowered its 2011 economic growth
forecast to 1.4 percent, citing weak consumption and exports.
Danske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s largest lender, yesterday raised
rates and said it may cut as many as 1,500 jobs in Denmark
through attrition.  “We cannot go on justifying rising costs when the market
is still shrinking and revenue is leveling off,” Anders Dam,
Jyske Bank chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Jyske Bank said it will raise interest rates by 0.5
percent. About 150 people will be fired immediately, and the six
branches will be closed by the end of year, leaving the lender
with 108 branches, Jyske said.  Continuing Trends  Spar Nord, Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender, said
Aug. 17 it was looking for a buyer for its leasing business to
boost liquidity after funding costs rose.  Jyske Bank shares fell 1.4 percent, or 2 kroner, to 142.20
kroner as of 10:25 a.m. in Copenhagen. That compares with a 3.4
percent decline in the 46-member Bloomberg index of European
financials.  “Private households and businesses are to an increasing
degree reducing their debt to banks,” Jyske Bank said in a
statement. “The activity level in the housing market and the
financial markets has generally been on the decline. It seems
that these trends will continue for quite some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  