-- 
Kremlin Private Equity Fund Talking With China on Investment

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-22T22:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/kremlin-private-equity-fund-in-talks-with-china-investment-group.html
The Russian private-equity unit
being set up by President  Dmitry Medvedev  is in talks with a
Chinese group about making joint investments, as the nation
seeks to reverse an outflow of foreign capital.  Details of the partnership may be announced in October,
Kirill Dmitriev, head of the  Russia  Direct Investment Fund, said
in an interview today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
The new joint fund would co-invest in deals “that benefit from
the Russia-China relationship and Russia-China trade,” he said,
declining to provide details.  Dmitriev said Russia’s fund seeks to reassure those wary of
investing in the country by putting government money alongside
their capital in pursuit of returns of as much as 30 percent. He
plans to meet in New York today with investment executives
including Neuberger Berman Group LLC Chief Executive Officer
George Walker, WL Ross & Co. Chairman  Wilbur Ross  and Warburg
Pincus LLC Co-President Charles Kaye.  Russia’s government, which will provide about $10 billion
in the next five years to the Direct Investment Fund, aims to
attract an additional $50 billion of co-investment from foreign
buyout firms, sovereign wealth funds and companies seeking to
expand in the country. Medvedev announced the creation of the
fund in January to attract foreign investment amid efforts to
deepen capital markets and wean Russia’s economy off its
reliance on oil, natural gas and metals exports.  ‘General’ Commitments  The first co-investment deals will probably be agreed upon
by the first quarter of 2012, Stanislav Voskresensky, a Russian
deputy economy minister also meeting potential investors in  New
York , said in an interview today.  “The commitments now are general,” Voskresensky said,
adding that some of the executives he and Dmitriev have met with
“are considering specific deals” in the “non-commodity
sector.” He declined to provide details.  Russia may see $30 billion to $40 billion in net capital
outflows this year, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said
on Aug. 27, reversing the ministry’s earlier forecast for zero
capital flight. Outflows through the first half are estimated at
$31.2 billion, according to preliminary central bank data.  “Attracting foreign capital wasn’t really the key point
five or six years ago, because then the key point was how do you
put some institutions in place, and how do you govern it,”
Dmitriev said. Today, “everybody understands that Russia needs
to compete for foreign capital, it needs to be attractive for
foreign capital and it needs to be a better communicator.”  $5 Billion  The fund expects to complete some of the 20 deals it’s
working on, with a combined value of $5 billion, by early next
year, Dmitriev said. It’s in talks with a European
pharmaceutical company seeking to expand in Russia, and a
sovereign wealth fund about a potential $1 billion investment,
he said.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund this month appointed an
international advisory board including  Lou Jiwei , chairman of
China Investment Corp., Blackstone Group LP CEO  Stephen
Schwarzman , and  Leon Black , CEO of Apollo Global Management LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  