-- 
NBA, Players Likely to Resume Talks Next Week; No Word on Training Camps

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/nba-players-likely-to-resume-talks-next-week-no-word-on-training-camps.html
National Basketball Association
officials will probably hold negotiations with their
counterparts from the players’ union next week as the deadline
for postponing the start of the season approaches.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  declined to say whether
contract proposals were made during almost five hours of talks
at a Manhattan hotel yesterday. He said he had no announcement
to make on the scheduled opening of training camps during the
first week of October, adding that “the calendar is not our
friend.” The regular season is set to start Nov. 1.  “My only concern is trying to make a deal that’s fair to
both sides,” Stern told reporters.  The NBA is expected to announce today that it will postpone
the start of training camp and the opening slate of exhibition
games, ESPN reported, quoting people within the league who were
not identified.  National Basketball Players Association  President  Derek Fisher  said the sides were no closer to a deal than when they
met last week.  “We’re not walking out of here with a deal right now,”
Fisher told reporters. “We’ll keep working at it until we
figure this out, but right now there isn’t anything to report.”  Veterans would have been scheduled to arrive at training
camps Oct. 3 under the collective bargaining agreement that
expired July 1, the day the NBA locked out the players.  The two sides are negotiating how to split money from a
league that had $4.3 billion in revenue last season, when Stern
says the teams collectively lost about $300 million.  Salary Cap  Both sides said this month that they’ve drawn closer to an
agreement on splitting the money and that their main
disagreement is over what salary-cap system to use.  Owners are looking to completely overhaul the system by
creating a harder salary cap, which is a more definitive ceiling
on what teams can pay players. The union wants to keep the
previous system, including guaranteed contracts and exceptions
to the maximum payroll that allowed high-dollar deals for
veteran players.  Stern said owners are sticking to their stand that
economics and a salary cap overhaul are important in making a
deal.  “We have to address both,” Stern said. “We’ve been
consistent. We need an economic system and a system where teams
can compete, and fans know their teams can compete, and that’s
where we’re at.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 