-- 
New Zealand to Delay Rate Rise to 2012, Survey Shows After GDP

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-09-22T22:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/new-zealand-to-delay-rate-rise-to-2012-survey-shows-after-gdp.html
New Zealand central bank Governor
Alan Bollard will likely maintain record-low  interest rates 
until next year, a survey of economists said after a report
showed the economy almost stalled last quarter.  Twelve of 17 economists polled yesterday by Bloomberg News
predicted Bollard will wait until at least January before
raising the official cash rate from 2.5 percent, up from nine
last week. The chance of a rate increase in March fell to 36
percent from 64 percent late on Sept. 21, according to swaps
prices from Westpac Banking Corp.  New Zealand’s dollar slumped after government figures
yesterday showed gross domestic product gained 0.1 percent in
the second quarter, less than the 0.5 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of economists. The currency has fallen 11
percent from a record last month as a European debt crisis and
the downgrade of the U.S. government’s credit rating led
investors to reduce bets on a rate rise this year.  “This result almost certainly rules out a hike this
year,” said Sharon Zollner, senior economist at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “They now have more of a domestic
mandate for current easy policy settings.”  ANZ National yesterday said Bollard will wait until March
before raising the cash rate. Previously, it expected a quarter
percentage-point increase in December.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell as much as 3.3 percent yesterday,
reaching a five-month low of 77.53 U.S. cents. It bought 78.31
cents at 10:39 a.m. in Wellington today, down from 88.43 cents
on Aug. 1, the highest since exchange-rate controls were removed
in 1985.  Bollard on Sept. 15 left the cash rate unchanged for a
fourth meeting, and reiterated that eventual increases in
borrowing costs will hinge on a decline in global financial
risks and a sustained domestic recovery after a Feb. 22
earthquake killed 181 people and demolished businesses, roads
and houses in the South Island city of Christchurch.  “We do have a picture where we still do expect to have to
push rates up,” Bollard said during a conference in  New York  on
Sept. 20. “However, we don’t think there is any particular rush
to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  