-- 
News Corp. Hacking Victim’s Family Protest Change to U.K. Legal Fee System

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/news-corp-hacking-victim-s-family-protests-change-to-legal-fees.html
The family of Milly Dowler, the
murdered schoolgirl whose mobile phone was hacked by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World, asked Britain’s leaders to stop
changes to the country’s “no win, no fee” litigation system.  It would be “unjust and unfair” to change the current
payment method, which the Dowlers used to challenge News Corp.’s
U.K. unit, the family said in an open letter to U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg .
Sound Off For Justice, which opposes the changes, says the new
fee system will be difficult to use for middle-income people.  Under the current system, defendants who lose a case must 
pay the expenses incurred by the plaintiffs lawyers who sued 
them. The new system will be more like that of the U.S., where 
the plaintiff who wins a lawsuit pays their own legal fees.  News Corp. agreed to pay 3 million pounds ($4.6 million) to
the Dowlers and a charity to settle claims that the News of the
World hacked their daughter’s voice-mail messages when she was
missing in 2002, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  was personally
involved in the negotiations, the person said.  “What we wanted to make clear to you is that we could not
have done this without a ‘no win, no fee’ agreement,” Sally,
Bob and Gemma Dowler said in the letter dated Sept. 19. “We
were lucky we fell under that system. We understand that the new
law will affect thousands of people who want to sue News
International and other newspapers.”  Intercepted  Reports in July that Dowler’s messages had been intercepted
triggered a public outcry that forced New York-based News Corp.
to close the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   U.K. Justice Minister Jonathan Djanogly said in June that
the current system is encouraging a “compensation culture” and
contributing to a rise in car insurance premiums. With the
proposed changes, people will be less inclined to increase their
claims, he said.  Under the new system, “success fees” will be paid out of
damages awarded to claimants -- with a cap of 25 percent --
rather than by defendants who are currently liable for as much
as 100 percent of the winning lawyer’s base costs on top of
their usual fee, the Ministry of Justice said in March.  “We welcome and are humbled by the intervention of the
Dowler family in this debate,” Des Hudson, who heads the
London-based Law Society, said in Sound Off’s statement. “They
have succeeded in making it clear to the prime minister that it
is ordinary families with terrible life challenges that will be
impacted the most.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  