-- 
Nigeria Needs Tightening to Curb Inflation Amid Spending

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-09-22T18:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/nigeria-s-sanusi-vows-to-curb-inflation-if-no-fiscal-discipline.html
Nigeria  will rely on monetary
policy tightening to slow inflation if efforts to reduce fiscal
expansion fail to make the required impact, Central Bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  “We would be very happy to have fiscal retrenchment very
quickly,” Sanusi told reporters today in  Washington . “But if
we don’t, monetary policy has to take the slack.”  Nigeria’s annual inflation rate declined for a second month
in August to 9.3 percent, the lowest level in more than three
years, from 9.4 percent a month earlier.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  on
Sept. 20 for the fifth consecutive time this year as it sought
to keep inflation below 10 percent and stabilize the naira.
Policy makers in  Africa ’s top oil producer cited concerns about
increased liquidity through  government spending  and the
recapitalization of commercial banks by the state-owned Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, Sanusi said on Sept. 20.  Africa’s most populous nation of more than 150 million
people more than doubled the monthly  minimum wage  to 18,000
naira ($115) last month, adding to price pressures.  Nigeria’s naira has weakened as much as 3.34 percent
against the dollar this year and was at 157.25 by 3:50 p.m.
today in Lagos, its lowest level since Sept. 16, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank sells dollars to
keep it within a range of between 3 percent above or below 150
per dollar to help curb inflation.  The central bank won’t defend the exchange rate of the
naira “at all costs” though “will try to hold the line as
much as possible, Sanusi said. Foreign currency reserves,
currently held in dollars and euros, will be diversified into
renminbi, he said. Reserves of between 5 percent and 10 percent
will be held in the Chinese currency, Sanusi said on Sept. 5.  Nigeria’s foreign reserves are about $35 billion, Sanusi
told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  