-- 
NJ Has Most Towns on Moody’s Junk-Bond List

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-09-22T21:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/nj-has-most-towns-on-moody-s-junk-bond-list.html
Six New Jersey local governments,
the most from any state, are among a list of 25 municipal-debt
issuers with speculative ratings compiled by Moody’s Investment
Service.  The issuers carried a combined $413.3 million in debt in
fiscal 2009, the report said. That represents about 4 percent of
the less than $10 billion owed in aggregate. Four-fifths of the
total was owed by the Philadelphia School District; Jefferson
County,  Alabama ;  Detroit ; and Detroit’s public schools.  Moody’s rates about 14,000 municipal credits, according to
David Jacobson, a company spokesman. The list of 25 was derived
from 7,800 general-obligation bond issuers, he said.
Speculative-grade debt, or  junk bonds , are rated Ba1 and below.  “A common story in this group is that issuers have trouble
balancing budgets either because of a weak tax base, a sharp
decline in a crucial revenue source, significant cost overruns
for a large enterprise or an unwillingness or inability to cut
expenditures or raise revenues,” wrote Dan Seymour, the study’s
author.  Three of the New Jersey towns -- Collingswood, Harrison and
Salem -- had their debt lowered because they had guaranteed
bonds based on development that fell short of projected revenue.
The other three municipalities are Irvington and Weehawken, plus
Camden, whose downgrade in November 1998 makes it the longest-
appearing entity on the Moody’s list.  Michigan  and  New York  each has four governments or school
districts on the chart.  Last week Jefferson County commissioners reached agreement
with holders of $3.14 billion of its debt to avert what would
have been the biggest municipal bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  