-- 
Non-Candidates Christie, Daniels Loom Over Presidential Race

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-22T19:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/non-candidates-christie-daniels-loom-over-republican-presidential-contest.html
Governors  Chris Christie  of  New
Jersey  and  Mitch Daniels  of Indiana have ruled themselves out of
the 2012 race for the White House. Yet both Republicans are
keeping themselves in the public eye.  Daniels, 62, a two-term governor who was a budget director
for President  George W. Bush , released a book this week entitled
“Keeping the Republic: Saving America by Trusting Americans.”
Christie, 49, is the subject of a $1.5 million television  ad
campaign  by a children’s advocacy group touting his 20 months in
office.  Today, the men appeared at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville, New Jersey, and said the current crop of
Republican presidential candidates must take a harder line on
issues such as federal entitlement spending and debt.  “I hope in some small way through things like this, and
maybe more to the point in the way we perform our duties in our
respective states, it will embolden some of our national
candidates to do something similar,” Daniels said. “I’d like
to think, whether it’s by example or encouragement like we just
gave, that some of them will take note.”  Daniels announced in May he wouldn’t challenge President
 Barack Obama  because his wife, Cheri Herman Daniels, and four
daughters were opposed. Christie has said repeatedly he won’t
seek the office, even though he told the National Review in
March: “I already know I could win.”  Both governors have been critical of current hopefuls.
Daniels said this month in a New York Times interview that a
Republican might still enter the race with a chance to win the
nomination. Republicans running, including former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, have courted Christie’s endorsement.  Voter Dissatisfaction  Christie took office last year as the first Republican
elected governor in New Jersey since 1997. He defeated incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine  in the 2009 race as he rode voter
dissatisfaction over the state’s high property taxes and
sluggish economy. The victory was only the second time in recent
history a sitting New Jersey governor lost a general election.  Both Christie and Daniels said they sense similar voter
discord with  Washington , where they said politicians need to
address spending on entitlements such as Medicare and Social
Security.  Daniels said today he hopes the Republican nominee doesn’t
“play it safe,” given Obama’s political vulnerability.  “My one question right now is, who will step out a little
more with specifics and speak a little more boldly both about
the urgency of our national situation and the best set of
answers as they see it to address these problems,” Daniels
said.  Shaping the Debate  The New Jersey governor said even though he and Daniels
aren’t running, they need to shape the debate in Washington in a
way current candidates aren’t.  “We’re not talking about -- on our side or any of the
folks -- these things in a forthright way,” Christie said
during the joint appearance. “They’re dancing around on other
stuff and just trying to get four or five sound bites.”  Republicans including Kenneth Langone, co-founder of Home
Depot Inc., have urged Christie to enter the race. The executive
has helped increase out-of-state donations to New Jersey’s
 Republican Party  by more than 10 times this year. All 120
members of the state Legislature stand for re-election in 2011.  Christie said today that those asking him to run aren’t the
ones who will “wake up alone at 5 a.m. in a Des Moines hotel
room when it’s 15 below and you have to go greet voters at a
meat-packing plant.”  Political Speculation  Speculation about Christie’s political future was rekindled
this week when the  Committee for Our Children’s Future , an
independent organization based in  Basking Ridge , New Jersey,
began a $1.5 million television ad campaign promoting the
governor’s efforts to cut spending and balance the state’s
budget.  “Governor Christie is certainly an ambitious guy and
there’s no question that he sees himself somewhere else
eventually,” said David Redlawsk, director of the Eagleton
Institute of Politics at  Rutgers University . “The underlying
question of course, is whether he’s trying to position himself
this time around. I don’t see that as a possibility.”  The  Indiana  governor has said he wants to continue
influencing public policy, and that his book, released Sept. 19,
is part of that effort.  It fits Daniels’s personality to influence events and “not
have to be the public face of what happens,” said Margaret Ferguson, chairman of the Indiana University-Purdue University
Indianapolis political science department.  Eric Holcomb, who was Daniels’s campaign manager and deputy
chief of staff before becoming chairman of the Indiana State
Republican Party in January, said he expects that Daniels
“would be on anyone’s shortlist” to be a Republican
presidential running mate in 2012.  “At this point,” he said, “it’s just fantasy to
contemplate that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  