-- 
Norges Bank Signals Credit Risk May Be Bigger Threat Than Krone

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-22T07:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/norges-bank-signals-credit-risk-may-be-bigger-threat-than-krone.html
The record debt burden of Norwegian
households may be a bigger threat to the economy than the risk
posed by a strengthening krone, central bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad signaled.  The krone has slumped 6.7 percent against the dollar after
the bank on Sept. 8 warned that it is willing to take “monetary
policy measures” to keep the currency from becoming “too
strong.” The krone lost 2.9 percent against the euro and 7.6
percent against the yen. The bank said yesterday the krone was
in line with its forecast for the third quarter after leaving
its benchmark deposit rate unchanged at 2.25 percent.  The success in stifling gains amid an investor search for
havens may give policy makers room to deal with domestic
challenges. The biggest of these could be the threat of a
credit-driven housing bubble, Morten Baltzersen, director
general of  Norway ’s financial regulator, said last week. Housing
investment has shown a “substantial increase” as  home prices 
continue to rise, the bank said.  “We share that concern and follow it closely,” Qvigstad
said yesterday in an interview in Oslo.  “The housing market
and credit is one of the most important variables and markets
that we follow when we set  interest rates .”  ‘Largest Worry’  Europe ’s lowest unemployment rate, at 2.7 percent, and
estimated wage growth of more than 4 percent this year are
fueling demand for credit in Norway and has pushed property
prices up beyond pre-crisis records.  House prices  rose an annual
9.4 percent in August, accelerating from 8 percent growth last
year, according to the country’s Real Estate Brokers
Association. Household credit rose an annual 7.1 percent in
July, hovering at a 2 1/2-year high,  Statistics Norway  said.  “They will continue to monitor the development in the
krone because it’s an important variable for inflation but they
are even more worried about the housing price development now,”
Kjersti Haugland, senior economist at DnB NOR ASA and a former
central bank analyst, said by phone yesterday.  The bank yesterday signaled rates will probably stay
unchanged for the rest of the year amid slowing global growth
and with policy makers in Washington, Frankfurt and  Stockholm 
also on hold. While a rate cut may be possible if the global
economy deteriorates, Qvigstad also said he “will not rule out
an increase this year.”  The  central bank  estimates consumer debt burdens will grow
to more than 204 percent of disposable income next year, the
highest since at least 1988.  Norway in the early 1990s seized control of its biggest
banks, in part because of a real estate slump that followed a
surge in lending growth triggered by deregulation in the 1980s.  “Households are getting increasingly vulnerable to
shocks,” Haugland said. “If something unexpected, a shock,
hits the Norwegian economy, the turnaround might be very abrupt
and lead to a very strong and abrupt fall in the Norwegian
economy.”  DnB expects the bank to raise rates again in March,
Haugland said.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen this month met with the
nation’s top bank executives to explore the need for stricter
lending rules in an effort to curb credit growth.  “The longer these developments go on, the further it goes,
the higher is the risk of a bubble,” Baltzersen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  