-- 
Obama’s Top 2012 Fundraiser Prefers Farming to Hunting to Raise $1 Billion

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/obama-s-top-2012-fundraiser-prefers-farming-to-hunting-to-raise-1-billion.html
Four years ago, Matthew Barzun
taught a session called “Hunting vs. Farming” to a group of
rookie  Barack Obama  fundraisers in a Chicago hotel ballroom.  The former executive at CNET Networks Inc. told them that
tracking and “bagging” wealthy donors is important in
presidential fundraising, while adding new donors -- even small
ones -- can yield bigger dividends.  Barzun, 40, now is putting his strategy to the test as he
leads the effort to raise as much as $1 billion for the 2012 re-
election bid amid a struggling economy and Obama approval
ratings at the lows of his presidency.  “Part of farming is, yes, make hay when the sun is
shining,” he said in his Chicago campaign headquarters office
during his first interview as Obama’s national finance committee
chairman. “But there will be rain, and our job is to do well
with rain, too, and don’t get all freaked out.”  It’s a message Barzun delivered to fundraisers this week
during a training session called “Obama University” that
attracted more than 100 money raisers from across the U.S.  Barzun resigned in May as the U.S. ambassador to  Sweden  so
he could accept his new assignment. It’s a post previously held
by  Penny Pritzker , a Chicago billionaire and businesswoman, who
helped raise a record $745 million for Obama’s 2008 campaign.  Jack Daniel’s Dynasty  Like Pritzker, Barzun is no stranger to big money. He and
his wife listed family assets, including joint trust accounts
and other holdings, valued between $305 million and $475 million
on a June 2009 financial disclosure form they filed after Obama
named him ambassador.  Much of the money comes from Jack Daniel’s Tennessee
Whiskey, one of the brands manufactured by Louisville-based
 Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A)  Barzun’s wife, Brooke Brown Barzun, is the
daughter of Owsley Brown II, the company’s former chairman.  Five unopened bottles of the whiskey, which Barzun says he
prefers to sip straight-up, sat on a shelf during the interview,
leftovers from an office party a few nights earlier.  Barzun is also no stranger to raising money. In the 2008
election, he was among Obama’s top fundraisers, collecting more
than $500,000, according to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks political money.  Democratic and Republican presidents have routinely awarded
ambassadorships to their top fundraisers. Besides Barzun, Obama
gave posts in  England ,  Spain ,  France  and  Japan  to some of his
2008 fundraisers.  Returning Ambassadors  It’s also not the first time an ambassador has returned to
the U.S. to oversee fundraising for a presidential re-election.
Mercer Reynolds, then an ambassador in  Switzerland , returned
home to lead the fundraising drive for former President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 campaign.  Four years ago, Barzun was one of three fundraisers who
pitched to Pritzker the idea of an “Obama University” as a way
to better train newcomers.  Barzun is repeating the program this year because he
realizes that the president’s fundraising time is more limited
than four years ago.  “It’s up to us to come up and help raise the resources we
need without always relying on his time or the first lady’s time
or the vice president’s time,” Barzun said.  Using Technology  With two smart phones placed in front of him, Barzun said
technology has grown exponentially since the last presidential
election. The campaign is experimenting with high-quality video
conferencing as a way to connect donors with senior campaign
staff and the president, as was done during his 50th birthday
celebration in  Chicago  in August.  Fundraisers will also be brought to Chicago for briefings
and dinners where they will learn how the campaign is preparing
for the election. “That’s where all the money is being spent
and so hearing about the needs and all that stuff, it’s such an
energizing thing for us volunteers because we can go home and
talk about all that stuff,” he said.  Pritzker said Barzun, then 36 years old, showed up in her
office about a week after she was named to the job four years
ago, asking what he could do to help.  “He was very creative in helping us figure out how to
really reach out to low-dollar fundraising,” she said, noting a
fundraising event in Louisville with an admission price of $25.  Low-Dollar Events  “It really kicked off this idea that there was a market
out there for doing low-dollar events with a big turnout and
that there was enormous benefit to the campaign,” she said.
“He brings a very practical approach and he’s innovative.”  In an interview with Bloomberg Markets magazine in 2008,
Barzun recounted how he asked Pritzker for permission to hold
the event. She agreed, he said, provided he didn’t spend more
than 5 percent the gross revenue.  “That made us think: ‘Do we really need chicken?’” he
told the magazine. “We served pitchers of water.”  As much of a technology junkie as he is, Barzun said he
knows the Internet has its fundraising limits.  “Fundamentally, this is people having one-on-one
conversations with other people, asking for their help,” he
said.  Raised in  Massachusetts , Barzun is the son of a lawyer and
social worker. He attended  Harvard College  and joined CNET as
the company’s fourth employee, after graduating magna cum laude
in 1993.  Internet Background  He was executive vice president for CNET’s business
technology group, responsible for boosting brands such as
Download.com, News.com, ZDNet, and Builder.com.  Before he was the Swedish ambassador, Barzun was president
of BrickPath LLC, where he advised and invested in Internet
media companies, according to his White House biography. His
hobbies include cooking, history and listening to music.  Barzun keeps an office in the 50,000-square-foot campaign
headquarters inside a high-rise that overlooks the site of
Obama’s historic 2008 victory celebration. He leaves his wife
and three children most weeks to commute from his Louisville
home to Chicago, often flying Southwest Airlines.  On a whiteboard near his desk, he has the U.S. divided into
11 fundraising regions, plus one for “abroad” for citizens
living outside the country.  Asked when he first met Obama, Barzun grabs a photo taken
in his backyard almost exactly five years ago during a
 Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee  fundraiser.  Obama in  Kentucky   Obama, then a U.S. senator contemplating a presidential
bid, had called Barzun before the event to get acquainted.
Barzun had exceeded expectations for Kentucky when he raised
money for 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, Senator  John Kerry  of Massachusetts.  As part of that fundraising visit five years ago, Barzun
said he asked Obama to do a free, public event while he was in
town because Louisville doesn’t attract many top Democrats. The
resulting gathering drew about 5,000 to a minor league baseball
stadium, Barzun said.  “It was amazing,” he said. “It was every ZIP code and it
was every age group and it was this wonderful, diverse mixture
that is Louisville.”  The next morning, Barzun said he introduced Obama to former
boxer  Muhammad Ali , a Louisville native.  The first public measure of Barzun’s leadership caught the
attention of the president’s rivals. Obama’s re-election effort
raised more than $86 million in the quarter that ended June 30,
eclipsing the combined haul of the entire 2012 Republican field.
The total is a combination of money collected by Obama’s
campaign and the  Democratic National Committee .  The campaign lowered its goal to $55 million for the third
quarter, which ends Sept. 30, after several fundraisers were
canceled because Obama was engaged in the congressional debate
over raising the U.S. debt ceiling, Barzun said.  Mike Mays, a friend who runs a coffeehouse chain in
Louisville, said Barzun lacks any of the pretentiousness that
might be associated with someone of his wealth and connections.  “He’s a pretty charismatic guy,” Mays said. “He’s got
the right balance between intellect, sense of humor and
attitude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  