-- 
Obama Pressures Republicans on Jobs Plan at Ohio Bridge

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-22T21:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/obama-to-pressure-republicans-on-jobs-plan-at-ohio-river-bridge.html
President  Barack Obama  promoted his
$447 billion jobs bill today near an aging, overcrowded bridge
in the swing state of Ohio, challenging Republican leaders to
support his plan to boost a sputtering economy.  Obama pointed to the Brent Spence Bridge, which carries
Interstate Highways 75 and 71 across the  Ohio River  between
Cincinnati and Covington,  Kentucky , as a symbol of deteriorating
infrastructure that would benefit from his proposal to spend $27
billion paying construction workers for highway system repairs.  “There is work to be done, and there are workers ready to
do it, so let’s tell Congress to pass this jobs bill right
away,” Obama said with the bridge as his backdrop. “What’s
Congress waiting for? Why is it taking so long?”  The span, listed as “functionally obsolete” on a national
bridge inventory, also links the home states of House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, who are largely critical of the
president’s jobs package, though they support fixing the bridge.  Obama’s remarks at a concrete plant overlooking the bridge
reflects a strategy before the 2012 elections of pushing
Republicans to approve the bill or suffer the consequences, said
Stu Rothenberg, editor of the Washington-based Rothenberg
Political Report.  “We’ve entered a new phase, clearly,” Rothenberg said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s about drawing lines,
drawing differences and, for the White House, trying to present
the Republicans as unwilling partners in bringing back the
economy.”  Obama’s Strategy  Obama explicitly challenged the two Republican
congressional leaders to act.  “Part of the reason I came here is because Mr. Boehner and
Mr. McConnell, those are the two most powerful Republicans in
government,”  he said. “They can either kill this jobs bill, or
they can help us pass this jobs bill.”  McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor earlier
today that Obama’s gambit won’t work.  “We’ve heard these promises before, and I don’t think the
president should expect anybody to fall for them again,”
McConnell said. “If a bridge needs fixing, by all means, let’s
fix it. But don’t tell us we need to pass a half a trillion
dollar stimulus bill and accept job-killing tax hikes to do
it.”  The president announced his jobs proposal on Sept. 8 and
has taken his campaign for passage to  Virginia ,  North Carolina 
and Ohio, re-election battleground states that Obama won in 2008
and  George W. Bush  carried in 2004.  Reception in Congress  Republicans, who control the U.S. House, have given the
jobs package a chilly reception, saying that tax increases would
discourage  job creation  and pointing to an unemployment rate
that’s at 9.1 percent after the $830 billion stimulus program in
2009. Some Democrats also have reservations.  “None of us agree with every part of it,” Senate
Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada told reporters Sept. 20.
He said Senate Democratic leaders haven’t decided whether to
push the chamber on all or only portions of the jobs package.  Obama responded to Republican accusations that his plan for
raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans amounted to class
warfare.  “If asking a billionaire to pay their fair share of taxes,
to pay the same  tax rate  as a plumber or a teacher is class
warfare, then you know what?” Obama said. “I’m a warrior for
the middle class.”  Economy and Election  Less than 14 months from Election Day, a sluggish economy,
volatile financial markets and voter angst are weighing on
Obama’s re-election prospects.  An American Research Group poll conducted Sept. 17-20 found
60 percent of Americans disapprove of Obama’s handling of the
economy, the highest in at least a year. Thirty-six percent
approved. A total of 53 percent of registered voters said the
economy is getting worse. The survey of 1,100 adults has an
error margin of plus or minus three percentage points.  The Brent Spence Bridge, described by the White House as
being on “one of the busiest trucking routes in  North
America ,” carries a highway running from  Michigan  to south
 Florida . Traffic is now about double the bridge’s designed
capacity of 80,000 vehicles a day.  Boehner’s office circulated Ohio news reports that said the
bridge project won’t create new jobs immediately because it
won’t be “shovel ready” until 2015, after environmental
studies and other pre-construction steps are complete.  ‘Excessive Regulations’  Boehner told reporters in  Washington  that the concrete
plant near the bridge site where Obama spoke is a target of
“excessive regulations” proposed by the Environmental
Protection Agency.  “These regulations threaten thousands of American jobs,”
he said at a news conference. “We hope the president will
address this during his visit.”  Today’s trip was Obama’s second visit to Ohio since he
proposed the jobs bill. He spoke in Columbus on Sept. 13 to
promote the package’s funding for school modernization projects.
Vice President  Joe Biden  also touted the jobs plan earlier this
week in Solon, Ohio.  Ohio’s  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in August, rising
for the third month in a row after dropping from a peak of 10.6
percent in February 2010.  Obama’s jobs plan is a mix of tax cuts and spending that
would include tens of billions of dollars to rebuild roads,
bridges and schools, an extension of benefits for the long-term
unemployed and aid for states and local governments to avert
layoffs of teachers, police and firefighters.  It also would reduce payroll taxes on workers, cut them in
half for most businesses and offer incentives for employers to
hire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Cincinnati at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  