-- 
Lobbyists Lurk, Use Jobs Maps to Woo Supercommittee Members

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T18:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/lobbyists-use-new-tactics-to-woo-supercommittee.html
Stephen Brown  is spending much of
his time these days in places where he can bump into one of 12
people. He lurks in hallways, lingers in committee hearings and
buys his way into fundraisers.  As a lobbyist for oil refiner  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , Brown is trying
to protect his company from government budget cuts and tax
increases that might be recommended by the dozen members of a
deficit-reducing congressional supercommittee.  Brown is not alone. He’s part of a lobbying stampede on
 Capitol Hill  as the supercommittee began its work to trim $1.5
trillion out of the federal deficit, cuts that have the
potential to affect every corner of the  U.S. economy . With such
stakes, businesses and trade groups are using unconventional
lobbying techniques to get their messages heard.  “We’re using pretty much every trick in the book to get in
front of these guys,” Brown said in an interview.  One energy trade group is planning a bus tour through the
panel members’ home states. The contractors’ lobby flew in more
than 200 constituents to descend on the offices of lawmakers.
Private equity and hospital organizations are showing committee
members how many jobs in their districts would be affected by
budget moves. A nursing home association is undertaking a
multimillion dollar ad blitz.  Bottom Lines  “They’re going to be trying to protect their bottom
lines,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director at  Washington ’s
Sunlight Foundation, which promotes government transparency. “I
can’t think of an industry that won’t be affected.”  The Aug. 2 deal that averted a federal default gave the
committee a Nov. 23 deadline for making recommendations, which
would require congressional approval by the end of the year. If
either step fails, $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending
cuts would be triggered over a decade, starting in 2013,
affecting defense and non-defense programs equally.  Tesoro, based in San Antonio, benefits from a tax break for
manufacturing that might be on the cutting block. The lack of
“constraint” on the supercommittee when it comes to slashing
programs or raising revenue is disconcerting, said Lee Fuller, a
lobbyist for the Independent Petroleum Association of America in
Washington.  “They could rewrite the entire  tax code  or entire
entitlement statutes if they wanted,” Fuller said in an
interview. “If you get seven members together, then you have a
package that gets an up or down vote.”  Committee Members  Washington Democratic Senator  Patty Murray  and Texas
Republican Representative Jeb Hensarling chair the committee.
The other senators are Republicans Jon Kyl of Arizona,  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania and  Rob Portman  of Ohio, and Democrats
Max Baucus of Montana and John Kerry of Massachusetts. Michigan
Republicans  Fred Upton  and Dave Camp round out the House side,
along with Democrats  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, Xavier Becerra of  California  and  James Clyburn  of South Carolina.  More than 180 people who have worked in the offices of the
committee members have registered as lobbyists at some point,
according to Legistorm, which compiles congressional data.  “There’s only a dozen members to lobby,” said Allison,
who also expects an uptick in political donations to the group.
“Normally this would be diffused over 535 members of
Congress.”  Bus Tour  Industries are employing inventive tactics to get their
message across. The Institute for Energy Research, a Washington
group that promotes oil and gas development, and its American
Energy Alliance advocacy arm are targeting five panel members
with a bus tour through Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and
Montana. They’re also creating a website and seeking out anti-
tax groups such as the Tea Party and Americans for  Tax Reform 
for joint rallies.  “The supercommittee is going to be the only game in town
and there are weighty issues to discuss,” said Tom Pyle,
president of the institute, in an interview. “We want to be
part of that discussion.”  Technology groups are joining forces to make sure lawmakers
understand the importance of their industry and its job-creation
potential, said Kevin Richards, senior vice president of the
federal government affairs division for the Washington trade
group TechAmerica.  The Task Force on American Innovation, an alliance of
companies, universities and scientific societies, yesterday
showed congressional staff a Power Point presentation on the
components of an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad.  The idea was to show “the different pieces in it and how
government research and development support helped create those
innovations,” Richards said.  Fly In  The Associated General Contractors of America flew in
constituents to argue their case for protecting and increasing
spending on infrastructure. Some are pushing for a raise in the
federal gasoline tax to support roadwork.  “Hopefully this shows a sense of urgency,” said Cedric
“Butch” Brooks, a highway contractor from Puyallup,
Washington, who took time away from his business to visit the
Capitol and meet with Travis Lumpkin, a senior adviser to
Murray, yesterday. “Nobody else is going to speak for us.”  The contractors had almost 200 meetings set up with
lawmakers or staff in the last two days, and 30 of their members
split up visits to Murray, Kyl, Baucus and Clyburn’s offices.
The group coached Brooks and other contractors on how to talk to
lawmakers and avoid being intimidated by the halls of power.  “If we’re not talking about our laundry list of ideas,
we’re going to be left out of the mix,” said Jeff Shoaf, the
group’s top lobbyist.  Private Equity   The private equity industry also is using constituents to
make its case. Tagged by some as “corporate raiders”
responsible for job cuts, the industry is trying to focus
attention on how it helps the economy and away from a proposed
tax increase on profit-sharing known as carried interest.  Its trade group, the Private Equity Growth Capital Council,
created a picture of the states and districts where the
companies owned by private equity firms reside and employ
workers. A Sept. 8 report sent to Kerry, Murray, Portman and
Toomey showed that their states are in the top 16 for private
equity investments. On the House side, Camp’s Michigan district
ranked 17th nationally.  Portfolio Companies  Now, the council is trying to arrange in-district visits
with plant managers and lawmaker meetings for local company
chief executive officers. That means fewer visits by executives
from New York firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co.,
and more from the companies in their portfolios that have local
influence.  While the council won’t say which companies it plans to
bring in, the range in private equity portfolios spans from
SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Inc. to Toys “R” Us Inc. The
industry knows it’s hard to get noticed.  “It’s going to be difficult to have the same kind of
impact in D.C. as you would under normal circumstances,” said
Steve Judge, the interim CEO of the Washington industry group.  With entitlements and Pentagon spending at the top of the
list for cuts, health-care companies and defense contractors are
echoing the private equity industry’s jobs theme.  The American Hospital Association, based in Chicago, has
put together a list of how many workers hospitals employ in each
congressional district. The group also released an analysis on
Sept. 9 that found the automatic cuts to the Medicare health
program for the elderly might cost as many as 194,000 jobs.  The American Health Care Association, the Washington-based
lobby group for nursing homes, including  Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND) 
and  Sun Healthcare Group Inc. (SUNH) , is responding with millions of
dollars of television and print advertisements, along with
visits by industry executives, nurses and patients to the home
districts of targeted lawmakers.  An August ad from the group features nurses taking care of
patients. “We understand the need for sacrifice, we’ve given
our fair share, and more,” one of the nurses says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at   tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  