-- 
Logitech Shares Slump After Forecasts Slashed Again Without Permanent CEO

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-22T08:40:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/logitech-cuts-sales-profit-forecasts-second-time-in-two-months.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN)  dropped
as much as 13 percent in Zurich trading after the company cut
profit forecasts for a second time in two months, putting
pressure on interim Chief Executive Officer Guerrino De Luca to
find a successor.  The stock fell as much as 1.02 Swiss francs to 6.78 francs,
the steepest decline since April 1. Logitech traded 11 percent
lower at 10:07 a.m. in Zurich, valuing the largest maker of
computer mice at 1.3 billion francs ($1.4 billion).  “The situation has worsened in the last two months in
Europe and the U.S., especially for consumers,” De Luca said in
a phone interview today. “The tougher the economy, the more
difficult for consumers to take out their wallets.”  Operating profit will be about $90 million in the year
ending March 31, 2012, on sales of about $2.4 billion, Romanel-
sur-Morges, Switzerland-based Logitech said in a statement
today. That compares with previous projections of at least $143
million for operating profit and $2.5 billion for revenue. Gross
margin for the year will be about 33 percent, the company said.  “These figures are a heavy blow for interim CEO de Luca
after less than three months on the job,” Beat Keiser, an
analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Zurich, wrote in a note. “Many
people have pinned their hopes for a turnaround of what remains
a severely challenged business model on him. This will certainly
not happen anytime soon.”  CEO’s Return  De Luca, who served as CEO between 1998 and 2008, returned
in July to replace Gerald Quindlen after Logitech posted a
first-quarter loss that was wider than analysts’ estimates amid
slumping sales in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa . Logitech
shares had lost about half their value this year through
yesterday as surging sales of Apple Inc.’s iPad threaten the
company’s traditional desktop and laptop businesses.  “The search for the new CEO is going very well, we’re into
it, but we absolutely need to get the right person,” De Luca
said. “I’m under no pressure to go and will stay around as long
as needed.”  “The traditional PC is all but dying and sinking
Logitech’s bread-and-butter keyboard and mice business with
it,” CA Cheuvreux’s Keiser wrote.  ‘Not Good Enough’  The company lowered its forecasts to factor in the
“current economic environment” in Western markets and its
product offerings, according to the statement. Logitech, which
also makes home-entertainment control, gaming and wireless
devices, is trying to improve its product lineups while
reinforcing sales and marketing efforts, De Luca said.  “The strength of our portfolio is not good enough and
we’re working on it, but a portfolio rejuvenation doesn’t happen
overnight,” De Luca said. “Retailers and distribution partners
are more cautious and inventories have been building up.”  De Luca said that excluding keyboards, which are doing
“very well,” all lines including digital music with earphone
speakers, have to be improved “dramatically” in coming months.  Logitech reduced its revenue and operating income estimates
on July 28 after reporting a net loss of $29.6 million for the
quarter through the end of June. The company on March 31 had
lowered its sales and profit forecasts for the full year through
that day because of “projected shortfalls” mainly due to
“weakness” in the company’s Europe,  Middle East  and Africa
retail sales region.  “The July targets were overly optimistic and I hadn’t had
enough time to assess the situation then,” De Luca said. “This
is the third consecutive time we disappoint and I tell you it’s
the last one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  