-- 
Oil Era’s Twilight Drives Depression, Debt Crisis, Rifkin Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/oil-era-s-twilight-drives-depression-debt-crisis-rifkin-says-interview.html
The world economy will face shocks
and depressions, punctuated by ever-shorter and weaker
recoveries, as long as it relies on outdated fossil fuels, says
Jeremy Rifkin, author of “ The Third Industrial Revolution .”  “There will be cycles of growth, collapse, growth,
collapse, every three years or so,” he said in an interview in
Berlin, where he was scheduled to speak on a panel about
sustainable growth introduced by  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  We are on the cusp of a major upheaval as the world
switches to renewable energies and our power-distribution
networks undergo a transition similar to that experienced by
communications systems with the advent of the Internet, he said.  Until the “third industrial revolution” is in full swing,
debt crises such as those plaguing the euro area will recur,
Rifkin said.  “The real crisis has been missed,” he said. “It occurred
in July 2008, when oil hit $147 a barrel. The whole economic
system shut down. That was the earthquake. The collapse of the
financial market 60 days later was the aftershock.”  Rifkin’s book is peppered with chats about hydrogen with
then-European Commission President  Romano Prodi  and dinners with
Merkel. Clients of his  Foundation on Economic Trends  include
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the European Commission and the
U.S. Department of Interior.  Peace Movement  Rifkin, who is 66, began a career as an activist in the
peace movement of the 1960s. He lectures at the Wharton School’s
Executive Education Program and has devised a master plan for
 Rome ’s transition to a  post-carbon economy .  All industrial revolutions occur, he argues, when
technological advances in communications and energy converge.
The first industrial revolution combined literacy and printing
with steam power and rail. The second brought us the telephone,
the internal combustion engine and oil.  That era is dying, he said, and it’s not just the economy
that is reeling from the carbon age, but the climate and
biosphere too.  “We are at the beginning of a mass shift in the chemistry
of the planet,” he said. “Our species has never experienced
anything like this and we’re not grasping it at all.”  He doesn’t rule out the end of civilization as we know it,
unless we get our act together.  Energy Revolution  That, he said, means shifting to renewable energy;
transforming our homes into mini power-plants; using hydrogen to
store intermittent energies such as solar and wind energy;
developing a “smart grid” so that small-scale power producers
can sell back excess electricity; and switching to electric
plug-in vehicles. The key is to advance all five elements
simultaneously.  Germany  and  Europe  are leading the way, yet they are still
in the early stages, he said. Rifkin’s vision resonates in
Germany, which has announced plans for an “energy transition”
after deciding to quit nuclear power.  “The good thing about the chancellor is that she’s a
physicist, she understands all the science,” he said.  The U.S., on the other hand, is falling behind, Rifkin
argues. President  Barack Obama , who wanted a green economy,
spent too much on stand-alone projects that don’t link up to
create a new infrastructure, he said.  “He’s lost billions,” he said. “The reason is that we
have a huge, powerful  energy industry  that can finance the
elections, and they didn’t want to touch this.”  Future of Utilities  Power companies around the world are reluctant to give up
their role as energy providers, Rifkin said. Yet utilities whose
executives realize their future is to manage grids and access
will survive, he said, in much the same way  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  made the switch from manufacturing PCs
to managing  information systems .  He views it as a generational question.  “When I give talks to executive boards, I can see the 40-
year-olds are nodding their heads,” he said. “The 60-year-olds
are shaking their heads. There’s a battle going on.”  New sources of energy will lead to an economy where power,
in both senses, is lateral rather than vertical, he predicted.  “It’s as fundamental as the shift from medieval guilds to
a market economy,” he said. “It has enormous opportunities for
a world in the doldrums of despair.”  So how are we going to pay for all this in an era of mass
debt? Rifkin said we have no choice.  He doesn’t pretend it’s easy.  “The second part of this century is either going to be
real hell on this planet, or we’re going to turn it around,” he
said. “I think it’s a pretty uphill climb.”  “The Third Industrial Revolution: How Lateral Power Is
Transforming Energy, the Economy and the World” will be
published in the U.S. on Sept. 27 by Palgrave Macmillan (291
pages, $27). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 