-- 
Oil Tanker Losses Widen as Vessel Glut Overwhelms Cargo Demand

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-22T16:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/oil-tanker-losses-widen-as-vessel-glut-overwhelms-cargo-demand.html
Supertankers hauling 2 million
barrels of Middle East crude oil to  Asia , the world’s busiest
route for supertankers, widened their losses because of a
surplus of ships seeking shipments.  Very large crude carriers on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan voyage are losing $3,120 a day, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London. On Sept. 19, losses were $4,175 a day, the
most this year, before narrowing in the next two days.  “Charterers keep drip-feeding Middle East Gulf cargoes,”
ICAP Shipping International Ltd., a division of ICAP Plc, the
biggest broker of trades between banks, wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  Global demand for supertankers will expand 5.2 percent this
year to 144.3 million deadweight tons, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. The fleet will swell almost twice as fast, expanding
9.9 percent to 176.9 million tons, it estimates.  Oil demand will expand 1.2 percent to 89.3 million
barrels a day this year, the  International Energy Agency 
forecast Sept. 13. The number of VLCCs in service worldwide grew
by 3.6 percent to 550 vessels this year, data from Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay show.  VLCC Losses  Losses on VLCC rents can be reduced by slowing a ship’s
speed on a return journey after a vessel has unloaded its cargo,
saving fuel costs. Returns published by the exchange do not take
into account reduced speeds. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers,
advanced 28 percent from the start of the year to $653.20 a
metric ton, data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide
showed.  Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage decreased
0.7 percent to 44.96 Worldscale points, according to the
exchange. The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude oil that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
increased 0.3 percent to 700 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  