-- 
Crude Oil Declines to a Six-Week Low as Fed Sees Downside Risks to Economy

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-22T20:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/oil-tumbles-to-one-month-low-as-fed-sees-downside-economic-risks.html
Oil dropped to a six-week low after
the  Federal Reserve  cited “significant downside risks” to the
economy of the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consuming nation.  Futures declined 6.3 percent after the Fed said it will
replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
Treasuries to spur growth. A report today showed manufacturing
in  China , the world’s second-biggest oil consuming country, may
contract this month. Prices also dropped on concern banks may
face difficulty getting funding.  “Signs of economic weakness are rearing their ugly head in
many places and we’re seeing an appropriate response in
commodity and equity markets,” said Michael Lynch, president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts.  Crude oil for November delivery fell $5.41 to $80.51 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug 9. It was the biggest one-day drop since
Aug. 8. The contract touched $79.66. Prices are down 12 percent
this year.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $4.87, or 4.4
percent, to $105.49 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the lowest close since Aug. 9. The contract
touched $105.02.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in  Washington  after ending a
two-day meeting yesterday. “The committee discussed the range
of policy tools available to promote a stronger economic
recovery in a context of  price stability .”  Equities and Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 3.2 percent to
1,129.56 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 3.5
percent to 10,733.83. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
fell as much as 5.2 percent to 605.2, the lowest level this
year. All of the commodities declined.  “All exuberance is being excised from the markets,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based
Schork Group Inc. “The odds are very good that we’re already in
a recession or will soon be in one.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut its long-term credit ratings
on Bank of America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co . yesterday, saying
U.S. support has become less likely if lenders have financial
trouble. Citigroup Inc.’s short-term rating also was downgraded.  “The market certainly didn’t like the FOMC statement
yesterday,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in  New York . “There’s a lot of pessimism out there
in the world for the overall global economy.”  Chinese Outlook  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, a preliminary
index of purchasing managers showed. The reading of 49.4 for the
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was
down from 49.9 in August.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
the first time in more than two years in September. A composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers fell below 50 for
the first time since July 2009, Markit Economics said today.  “The Chinese manufacturing data was terrible and you’ve
got  Europe  slowing down,” said Phil Flynn, vice president
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The market is pricing in a
global economic slowdown.”  The U.S. and China were responsible for 32 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy released on June 8. The 17 countries
using the euro accounted for about 12 percent of world use.  Goldman Projection  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its three-month forecast
for oil in New York, by 15 percent to $97.50 a barrel. The
bank’s previous target was $115 a barrel, analysts led by
Samantha Dart in  London  said in today’s report.  Libya will produce as much as 600,000 barrels a day of oil
soon, rising to 1 million barrels in six months, OPEC Secretary-
General Abdalla el-Badri said Sept. 19.  The North African country’s oil output and exports came to
a standstill after fighting broke out in February between forces
loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi and rebels seeking his ouster.
Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a day in January, according to
Bloomberg News estimates.  Libyan Production  “Libyan output appears to be on an upward slope,” said
 Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy LLC in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “The disruption of Libyan output was one of the
bullish factors supporting prices. The additional barrels will
be coming on the market as demand worsens.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will make
a decision on whether to cut supply after monitoring the global
economy and the pace of Libya’s rebound, an OPEC official with
knowledge of the matter said.  Saudi Arabia  will probably
maintain current output if U.S. and European economic woes don’t
spread, he said.  The organization meets next on Dec. 14 in Vienna. At its
June meeting, OPEC rejected a Saudi proposal to raise output.  “If prices continue to drop OPEC will have to make tough
choices,” Mueller said. “You can’t say it’s a cohesive group
after the June meeting.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 718,675
contracts at 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 517,286
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.37 million contracts,
the least since Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 