-- 
Tom DeMark Says Investor Panic To Abate Soon

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-22T20:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/tom-demark-sees-capitulation-after-s-p-500-falls-below-1-100.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may
drop as low as 1,076 before investor panic abates and stocks
rally, according to Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators for
identifying turning points in securities.  The benchmark index for U.S. equities may fall that far
intraday as early as next week and then gain as much as 20
percent, DeMark said in a telephone interview from Phoenix
today. The swings will push the VIX, as the  Chicago  Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, above the high of 48
it reached on Aug. 8, he said.  “We’re trying to identify when selling capitulation is
about to be completed,” said DeMark, the founder of Market
Studies LLC. “We’re trying to identify the inflection point on
the downside when the last seller sold. It could come as early
as next Thursday.”  The  S&P 500  slumped 3.2 percent to 1,129.56 at 4 p.m. New
York time, extending its weekly loss to 7.1 percent, on concern
policy makers are running out of tools to avoid another global
recession. The VIX jumped 11 percent to 41.35 as investors drove
up prices for insurance against equity losses.  Between April 29 and Aug. 8, the S&P 500 fell 18 percent on
a closing basis amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading
and the  U.S. economy  may slip into a recession. The S&P 500
yesterday had its biggest drop in a month after the  Federal
Reserve  said the turmoil caused by Europe’s crisis is taking a
toll on the economy and it plans to buy long-term debt and sell
shorter maturities to sustain the economic recovery.  ‘Pull a Rabbit’  “Clearly the equity market had very high hopes for the Fed
to pull a rabbit out of its hat, which didn’t happen,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING
Investment Management, wrote in an e-mail. His firm oversees
$550 billion. “Capitulation will take the market to last
summer’s lows,” he said. The S&P 500 hit 1010.91, the 2010
intraday low, on July 1.  DeMark, who has spent more than 40 years developing
indicators with names like “sequential” and “countdown,”
said during an interview on Aug. 16 that U.S. stocks would reach
new lows within weeks, setting the stage for a rally that would
push the S&P 500 above its 2011 highs. The slump in stocks came
later than anticipated, making it unlikely for the market to
reach new highs, he said today.  “The time that lapsed has dissipated some of the impetus
that would have existed had the break below the August 9th low
occurred within one to two weeks, and now it is almost seven to
eight weeks later,” he wrote in an e-mail.  39% Plunge  During the Aug. 16 interview, DeMark said  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA “look like buys.” The Paris-based banks
have both tumbled 39 percent since then.  Ryan Larson, head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global
Asset Management Inc., said investors may start panicking should
the S&P 500 fail to hold 1,101.54, this year’s intraday low
reached on Aug. 9.  “When panic sets in, investors first sell what isn’t
working, then they sell what is working to lock in profits, then
they will sell everything they can get their hands on,” Larson
wrote in an e-mail from Chicago. “Many thought we had seen
capitulation the week of August 8. But with the uncertainties
building, both domestically and abroad, we think capitulation
has yet to be seen.”  While markets are driven by the economy, prices move in
patterns and traders can use them to identify when to buy and
sell, according to DeMark, an adviser to  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP who provided consulting to hedge funds
including  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management LLC and  Leon Cooperman ’s Omega Advisors Inc. The market will rebound after
setting new lows, he said.  “When the last seller sold, it’s almost by default the
market will levitate because there will be a vacuum,” he said.
“There will be no sellers and the market can move up quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  