-- 
Home Prices Decline 3.3% in U.S. as Buyer Confidence Sapped

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T15:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/home-prices-in-u-s-fell-3-3-in-july-from-year-ago-on-economic-concern.html
U.S.  home prices  declined in the 12
months through July as concerns that the economy may enter
another recession sapped the confidence of would-be buyers.  Prices dropped 3.3 percent, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency in Washington said in a report today. Compared with June,
they rose 0.8 percent, more than the 0.1 percent gain that was
the average estimate in a Bloomberg poll of 15 economists.  Americans are becoming more pessimistic about the economy
after growth weakened in the first half of the year to its
slowest pace since the recovery began. The  unemployment rate  has
stayed above 9 percent for more than two years, with the
exception of slight dips in February and March. The median
income for U.S. households dropped in 2010 to the lowest level
since 1996, according to a Census Bureau report this month.  “There’s a lack of confidence among homebuyers that is
directly tied to the fact that people are worried about their
jobs,” said  John Burns , founder and chief executive of John
Burns Real Estate Consulting in  Irvine ,  California . “You can’t
get a home if you don’t have income.”  Home prices in July fell the most in the region that
includes Nevada and Arizona, slumping 6.9 percent from a year
earlier, the FHFA said. They decreased 6.7 percent in the area
that includes California.  Decline in Value  Five years into the housing crash, U.S. residential real
estate has lost $6.6 trillion in value, as  measured  by the
 Federal Reserve . The FHFA index, based on home purchases
financed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , has tumbled more than 18
percent from its April 2007 high. Other price measures, such as
the S&P/Case-Shiller index, have fallen even more because they
include foreclosures that investors usually purchase with cash.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
earlier this month slashed its  forecast  for U.S. economic growth
in the second half of 2011, citing gridlock over fiscal policies
and falling  consumer confidence . Gross domestic product probably
will increase 1.1 percent in the third quarter and 0.4 percent
in the fourth, down from the 2.9 percent and 3 percent expansion
that the Paris-based international economic research group
predicted in May.  That would put the second half of the year on par with the
first, when gross domestic product expanded at a 0.4 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter and 1 percent in the
second.  Median Price Drops  The median U.S. price for a previously owned home sold in
July was $171,200, according to National Association of Realtors
data. In August, it fell to $168,300, the trade group said
yesterday in a report. Sales last month rose to 5.03 million at
an annual pace from a 4.67 million rate in July.  Builders broke ground on new homes at the slowest rate in
three months in August, the Commerce Department said in a Sept.
20 report. Housing starts dropped 5 percent to 571,000 at a
seasonally adjusted annual pace.  Homebuilding companies have lost more than a quarter of
their value this year as an oversupply of existing homes dilutes
demand. New-home sales probably will drop to 307,000 this year,
according to a Sept. 12 forecast by  Mortgage Bankers Association 
in  Washington . That would be the fewest in almost half a century
of government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  