-- 
London Court Closes Where Hackers, Politicians, Amy Winehouse Met Justice

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-22T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/london-court-closes-where-hackers-mps-winehouse-met-justice.html
Westminster Magistrates Court heard
its final case yesterday, ending almost 40 years of legal
history at a site which has dealt justice to petty criminals,
politicians and pop stars, including the late  Amy Winehouse .  The building is being demolished by  Barratt Developments
Plc (BDEV)  to make way for luxury apartments, while the court’s
operations will move to a new 71 million pound ($109 million)
facility in London’s Marylebone neighborhood that will open
Sept. 27.  When nearby Bow Street Court shut in 2006, officials
lamented the shuttering of the 270-year-old British landmark.
There were few complaints yesterday as Westminster judges, 
lawyers and staff said goodbye to the cramped corridors
and 1970s architecture at 70 Horseferry Road.  “A far as the building is concerned, I can’t wait to see
the back of it,” said Fadi Daoud, a defense lawyer who has
worked for a decade at the court a short walk from the Thames.  Because of its prominent location, Westminster dealt with
more than its share of celebrity trials and high-profile
extraditions -- alongside the usual thefts and assaults.
Magistrates courts don’t try murders or other serious crimes,
which are handled in crown courts.  Former News of the World royal editor  Clive Goodman  and
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  appeared in 2007 charged with
hacking into mobile-phone messages, a scandal which eventually
brought down the  News Corp (NWSA) .-owned paper.  Photographers and cameramen frequently massed outside to
capture a well-know defendant leaving court.  Winehouse, Redknapp  Singer Amy Winehouse was cleared in 2009 of assaulting a
dancer, while soccer manager  Harry Redknapp  was there in 2010 on
tax-evasion charges.  Daoud, a partner at law firm  Lawrence & Co.  who often
represents people with addiction or mental-health issues, said
the court gave no special treatment to famous names who passed
through its doors.  “Everyone is treated equally by the court,” Daoud said.
“We know our clients will be treated in the same way as a
famous footballer or boxer.”  In March 2010, three British members of parliament arrived
to plead not guilty to claiming false expenses, while
demonstrators in pig masks gathered outside. The magistrate
refused their request not to be locked in the secure dock
normally used for defendants during court hearings.  The media attention became a source of income for some of
the court’s neighbors. Cafe owner Ermanno Zanehirella, 45, said
he counted journalists and cameramen, as well as solicitors and
court staff, among his customers.  Ministry of Justice  The disappearance of the court will hit his sales, he said.
“We might be good in the short-term period when they do the
building work,” Zanehirella said. “After that, it is
unknown.”  Barratt Developments bought the site from the Ministry of
Justice, which decided the building was no longer fit for its
purpose. Planning permission was granted for two residential
apartment blocks, said Katharine Barney, a spokesman for
Westminster City Council.  Liz Morley, a spokesman for Barratt, said the development
was still in the planning stages and wouldn’t comment further.  Bow Street Court has also been consigned to history. It was
sold in 2006 and is set to be turned into a luxury hotel.  Westminster’s profile has been raised by improvements to
nearby Victoria Underground station and several nearby housing
developments, said  Charles Dugdale , a partner at estate agent
Knight Frank LLP.  “Developers look for areas which are primed for a step
change in pricing, and we believe Westminster is one such
area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  