-- 
Hong Kong Inflation Slows From Fastest Pace in 15 Years

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-22T08:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hong-kong-inflation-slows-from-fastest-pace-in-15-years-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s inflation slowed in
August after surging in July to the fastest pace in 15 years
because of changes to public housing rent subsidies.  Consumer prices rose 5.7 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 7.9 percent gain in July, the government said on
its website today. The underlying rate, excluding one-off
factors such as subsidies, was 6.3 percent, the highest since
August 2008.  Hong Kong officials are concerned that low  interest
rates  in the U.S. and other advanced economies will lead to
capital inflows that fuel inflation and asset bubbles. Chief
Executive  Donald Tsang , who is due to give a policy address on
Oct. 12, may be considering measures to ease the burden on the
poor from rising food and rental costs.  “Fiscal policy, such as relief measures, is the only way
for the government to support those being affected,” Raymond Yeung, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before today’s data. He said that rising
rents are feeding into other costs, with restaurants charging
more for meals to cover their outlays.  The inflation rate has exceeded 5 percent for each of the
past four months, the first time that has happened since the
global financial crisis.  A currency peg to the  U.S. dollar 
means Hong Kong’s official interest rates move in lock-step with
those of the U.S. Federal Reserve, limiting one tool for
managing inflation.  Labor Costs  Prices will continue to rise in the short term on labor and
rental costs, Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
 Norman Chan  told reporters today. The city introduced a minimum
wage in May and has boosted civil servants’ salaries by as much
as 7 percent. Chan cited low interest rates in developed
economies as adding to inflation risks.  Cafe de Coral Holdings Ltd. (341) , a listed local restaurant
chain, said the company sees pressure to further raise prices
after increases of as much as 6 percent for meals,  Radio
Television Hong Kong  reported this week, citing Chairman Michael
Chan. Private home rentals gained 14 percent in August from a
year earlier to HK$20.4 ($2.6) a square foot a month, according
to Centaline Property Agency.  The increase in consumer prices in August compared with the
median 5.8 percent estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. July’s rate was boosted by a waiver of public housing
rentals in July 2010 that wasn’t repeated a year later.  Weaker growth may help to offset price pressures, with Hong
Kong’s economy shrinking in the second quarter and the
 International Monetary Fund  this week cutting its forecast for
the global expansion. The city government said in August that it
expects 2011 inflation to be 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  