-- 
Hong Kong Warns Inflation Yet to Peak After Prices Rise 5.7%

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-22T09:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hong-kong-warns-inflation-yet-to-peak-after-prices-rise-5-7-.html
Hong Kong ’s government warned that
inflation is yet to peak after consumer prices rose 5.7 percent
in August because of higher costs for rents and vegetables.  The increase was less than a 7.9 percent gain in July, the
biggest in 15 years, that was partly caused by changes to public
housing subsidies, a government statement showed today. The
underlying rate last month excluding such one-off factors was
6.3 percent, the highest since August 2008.  Hong Kong officials are concerned that low  interest rates 
in the U.S. and other advanced economies will lead to capital
inflows that fuel inflation and asset bubbles. Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang , who is due to give a policy address on Oct. 12,
may be considering measures to ease the burden on the poor from
rising food and rental costs.  “Inflation is going to stay stubbornly high,” said Joseph Lau, an economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  The inflation rate has exceeded 5 percent for each of the
past four months, the first time that has happened since the
global financial crisis.  A currency peg to the  U.S. dollar 
means Hong Kong’s official interest rates move in lock-step with
those of the U.S. Federal Reserve, removing one tool for
managing price pressure.  Inflation “is likely to climb up further in the coming
months before peaking out,” the government said today, adding
that fresh vegetables and private housing rentals drove price
gains in August.  Labor Costs  Prices will continue to rise in the short term on labor and
rental costs, Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
 Norman Chan  told reporters today. The city introduced a minimum
wage in May and has boosted civil servants’ salaries by as much
as 7 percent. Chan cited low interest rates in developed
economies as adding to inflation risks.  Cafe de Coral Holdings Ltd. (341) , a listed local restaurant
chain, said the company sees pressure to further raise prices
after increases of as much as 6 percent for meals,  Radio
Television Hong Kong  reported this week, citing Chairman Michael
Chan.  The increase in consumer prices in August compared with the
median 5.8 percent estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. July’s rate was boosted by a waiver of public housing
rentals in July 2010 that wasn’t repeated a year later.  Weaker growth may help to offset price pressures, with Hong
Kong’s economy shrinking in the second quarter and the
 International Monetary Fund  this week cutting its forecast for
the global expansion. The city government said in August that it
expects 2011 inflation to be 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  