-- 
Moody’s Bank Downgrades Assailed by Analysts as ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Persists

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/moody-s-bank-downgrades-assailed-by-analysts-as-too-big-to-fail-persists.html
Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings firm that downgraded the credit of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , said future U.S. bailouts of financial
firms are less likely. Some analysts and investors disagree.  “We have not gotten beyond too-big-to-fail,” said Jason Brady, a managing director at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management Inc., who helps oversee about
$76 billion. “We had an experiment where we let one go and it
didn’t work out so hot. Now they are going to be more likely to
let somebody go? I don’t think so.”  Brady was referring to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
collapsed in 2008 and presaged a taxpayer rescue of the biggest
banks to keep the financial system from collapsing. Lawmakers
have since pushed through regulations including the Dodd-Frank
Act aimed at cutting the interconnectedness of financial firms
and establishing plans to wind down troubled companies to avoid
future bailouts.  Moody’s cut the long-term credit ratings for Bank of
America and Wells Fargo yesterday and said the government is
“more likely now than during the financial crisis” to let a
large U.S. bank collapse, according to a statement. The ratings
firm said the two banks and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which had its short-
term rating downgraded, benefitted more than others from
underlying government support.  “They need to defend this move with logic, not just, ‘This
is our methodology,’” said Nancy Bush, an analyst at SNL
Financial, a bank-research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Moody’s likely is protecting itself “in case there is another
downdraft, since they were caught absolutely flat-footed in 2008
by slapping AAA on everything,” she said.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan  Moody’s isn’t abandoning the idea of government help,
saying in its Citigroup statement that the new assumptions
represent a pre-crisis level of support. The ratings of five
other banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S.
bank,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  State Street
Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  -- also incorporate
government support. These firms aren’t under review, according
to Abbas Qasim, a Moody’s spokesman.  “The banks’ liquidity positions and capital positions are
far stronger than they were in 2008, which was the depth of the
crisis,” Sean Jones, a Moody’s vice president, said in a phone
interview. That means the government is less likely to come to
the rescue, he said.  Qasim didn’t respond to a follow-up e-mail seeking comment
about analysts’ and investors’ reaction to the downgrades.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat
and co-author of the Dodd-Frank Act, said the rating firm’s
decision was right and affirmed what lawmakers had done in
overhauling financial regulations last year.  ‘We Got It Right’  “To the extent that they were rating the banks because
they were too big to fail, they were wrong and I view this as
confirmation that we got it right in our bill,” Frank, the
ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said
yesterday in an interview in  Washington .  Frank has criticized ratings companies for maintaining that
the U.S. would aid failing firms, pointing to a lack of
political will to bail out banks again, as well as powers given
to regulators to seize and unwind the largest firms.  “There is an increased possibility that the government
might allow a large financial institution to fail, taking the
view that contagion could be limited,” Moody’s said yesterday.  Another Cut  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, had its
ratings cut two levels to Baa1 from A2 for long-term senior
debt, and to Prime-2 from Prime-1 for short-term debt, Moody’s
said. The outlook for long-term senior ratings at the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender remains negative, indicating another
cut may be ahead.  Wells Fargo’s senior debt was cut one level to A2 from A1,
Moody’s said in a statement. The outlook remains negative on the
senior long-term ratings. New York-based Citigroup had its
short-term credit ratings cut to Prime 2 from Prime 1. The
ratings firm confirmed the lender’s A3 long-term rating, and the
A1 long-term and Prime-1 short-term ratings of Citibank N.A.,
saying the bank’s stand-alone credit profile had improved.  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , posted $29.3
billion in losses tied to subprime mortgages for 2008 and 2009
combined and took a $45 billion bailout from taxpayers, which
has since been repaid. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the
fourth-largest U.S. bank, has repaid a $25 billion bailout to
the U.S., while Bank of America returned $45 billion.  Bank of America and Citigroup said in statements that they
disagree with Moody’s decision, and Wells Fargo said the rating
agency’s move “solely reflects a change in their assumption
regarding systemic support.”  Soured Mortgages  Bank of America was unprofitable in three of the four
quarters ended June 30 as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, booked more than $30 billion in charges tied to
soured mortgages. The lender’s shares dropped 52 percent this
year through yesterday as Moynihan settled disputes over
defective loans.  “Bank of America is a much bigger deal than  Lehman
Brothers ; just the symbolism alone,” Brady said. For Moody’s to
say there’s a lower probability of a bailout “ignores the fact
that they are much, much bigger on Main Street. There’s no way
the government would let them fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 