-- 
Oracle Says Damages in Android Dispute May Be $1.2 Billion

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-22T20:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/oracle-estimates-damages-are-1-2-billion-in-android-dispute-with-google.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  estimated its damages
in a patent and copyright infringement lawsuit against  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  over Android software may be as much as $1.2 billion.  Oracle said its patent damages could be as much as
$202 million and its copyright damages could be as much as
$136 million, and that Google’s profit from copyright
infringement are $823.9 million, according to a filing today in
federal court in  San Francisco .  Google mischaracterized Oracle’s damage estimate when it
said in a filing yesterday that Oracle was seeking $2 billion,
including $1.2 billion in unjust enrichment damages for 2012
alone, Oracle attorney Steve Holtzman said in a letter today to
U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over the
case. Google can try to show that some of its profits aren’t
attributable to Oracle’s copyrights, Holtzman said.  While the $1.2 billion figure “certainly illustrates some
of the enormous profits enabled by Google’s infringement, it is
not part of” the damage estimate, Holtzman said in the letter.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the letter.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, sued
Google last year alleging the search engine company didn’t
obtain a license to use Java technology patents it claims are
infringed by the Android mobile-device operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices. A trial is
scheduled for Oct. 31.  In July, Alsup threw out  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle’s earlier estimate that it was entitled to as much as
$6.1 billion in damages in the lawsuit.  ‘Strenuously Pursue’  Oracle “intends to strenuously pursue” an injunction “to
resolve a key issue in this case: Whether Google can use
Oracle’s intellectual property to create an incompatible clone
of Java and thereby undermine Oracle’s and many others’
investments in ‘write once, run anywhere,’” the letter says. An
injunction could order the destruction of all products that
violate its copyright.  Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  and Oracle CEO
Larry Ellison met for two days of settlement discussions this
week before a magistrate judge in  San Jose ,  California . The
companies were ordered to contact the judge today to discuss
when further discussions will take place and whether Page and
Ellison would have to attend, according to a court filing
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  