-- 
More Dodd-Frank Cost Analysis Required Under Proposed Bill

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-22T22:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/more-dodd-frank-cost-analysis-required-under-proposed-u-s-bill.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Shelby , the
senior Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, introduced
legislation to require more cost-benefit analysis from financial
regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act.  The bill would bar financial regulators from finalizing
rules if the costs are found to outweigh benefits and require
each agency to develop plans to modify, eliminate or streamline
existing regulations.  “American job creators are under siege from the Dodd-Frank
Act,” said Shelby, who introduced the bill today. “In their
rush to expand the reach of government into our private markets,
congressional Democrats refused to consider the impact of the
Dodd-Frank Act on economic growth or  job creation .”  The bill comes in the wake of internal agency reviews
requested by Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee. The
lawmakers have raised concerns that financial regulators aren’t
adequately estimating the costs of Dodd-Frank on the broader
economy.  Earlier this year, the Securities and Exchange Commission
was forced to drop a rule making it easier for shareholders to
nominate board candidates after a U.S. court found the agency
didn’t adequately examine the burden on the firms.  The new bill, which has received the backing of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, would apply to 10 federal agencies and
other regulators, including the  Federal Reserve , Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  Shelby, in a letter today, asked Senator Tim Johnson, a
Democrat and the panel’s chairman, to hold a hearing on the
legislation.  Johnson, of  South Dakota , “looks forward to reviewing the
legislation,” said Sean Oblack, the committee’s spokesman.  “But it is unfortunate that they chose not to consult with
Democrats before introduction,” Oblack said in an e-mail. “The
Dodd-Frank Act and other existing laws already require a
significant number of cost-benefit analyses, and we hope to
avoid adding duplicative layers of bureaucracy that would tie
regulators’ hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  