-- 
Morocco Wins Credit for Economy-Boosting Reforms: Arab Credit

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-09-22T10:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/morocco-wins-credit-for-economy-boosting-reforms-correct-.html
Bank lending to  Morocco  rose at the
fastest pace in the Arab world as the kingdom steers clear of
political turmoil that toppled regimes in Libya, Tunisia and
Egypt.  International loans to the country climbed $1.3 billion, or
14 percent, in the first quarter, compared with the 0.3 percent
increase in total credit to  Africa  and the  Middle East , the  Bank
for International Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland , said in a 
report  published Sept. 18. Advances to Libya dropped 37 percent
and those to Egypt fell 14 percent. The yield on Morocco’s 4.5
percent eurobond due October 2020 declined 11 basis points to
5.99 percent today from the peak in February.  Moroccans approved constitutional changes in July proposed
by King Mohammed VI to transfer more power to the parliament,
forestalling uprisings similar to those that ousted  Libya ’s
Muammar Qaddafi and Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak . The  International
Monetary Fund  predicts political reforms will help the nation’s
economy grow 4.6 percent this year, up from 3.7 percent in 2010.  “Morocco is perceived as one of the most stable countries
in the region and it proved to be so when protests started,”
said Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded Arab investment bank.
“The king was quick to react with reform initiatives.”  Constitutional Changes  The BIS report tracks fund flows from global banks to
regional ones, including country-specific units of international
banks from their parent companies, which they can use to lend
domestically.  The amended constitution allows for the prime minister to
be chosen from the party that wins elections even as the king
retains the power to overrule or dissolve parliament, along with
his role as “commander of the faithful” in the Islamic nation.
Elections will be held Nov. 25, state-run Maghreb Arabe Presse
news agency reported last week. The Group of Eight nations along
with Persian Gulf countries pledged this month to help Egypt,
 Tunisia , Morocco and Jordan make the transition to democracy by
mobilizing $38 billion of international financing.  The country retained its BBB- credit ratings from Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the lowest investment grade in both
scales, and the Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the highest
non-investment level. Egypt’s creditworthiness was cut twice by
Moody’s this year to Ba3 and once by Fitch to BB due to
political instability.  Morocco’s inflation rate was 2.2 percent in the first eight
months of this year, according to  central bank data , compared
with 8.5 percent in Egypt. The central bank has held its
benchmark  interest rate  at 3.25 percent since March 2009, when
it was lowered by a quarter of a percentage point.  Enduring ‘Unrest’  “Thanks to sound macroeconomic policy and political
reforms, Morocco was well-equipped to respond to the social
unrest,” the IMF said  in a report  in July. “In this
challenging environment, Morocco has performed well economically
and has seen its social indicators improve.”  The country of 33 million people, which was invited to join
the six-member  Gulf Cooperation Council , is investing in
infrastructure projects including an allocation of 31.5 billion
Moroccan dirhams ($3.83 billion) to expand  wind-power  capacity
by 2020, high-speed rail to connect its main Atlantic coastal
cities, and a seaport and logistics facility in Tangier.  Morocco
allocated  17 billion dirhams in this year’s budget to build and
upgrade highways, railways and seaports.  “Foreign investors now prefer to invest in Morocco rather
than  Egypt  or Tunisia,” said Alae Yahya, an analyst at
Casablanca-based Sogecapital Bourse, a unit of Societe Generale
SA. “Even compared to a country like  South Africa , there is
good investor confidence here. Of course there are structural
and administrative problems but the government has undertaken
initiatives to make things easier for international investors.”  U.S. Slowdown  Still, Morocco’s credit risk has risen to the highest level
in more than two years as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and an
economic slowdown in the U.S. threaten to stall the global
economic recovery. The cost to insure the nation’s debt against
non-payment for five years using credit default swaps jumped 65
basis points, or 0.65 percentage point, this quarter to 238
basis points yesterday, the highest level since June 2009,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Morocco’s 10-year eurobond underperformed its counterparts
in the region this quarter. The yield on the Moroccan notes rose
21 basis points since the end of June, compared with a 40 basis-
point decline to 4.67 percent in the average yield for sovereign
Middle Eastern debt, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle
East Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  The Moroccan economy is facing increased risk due to ties
with its main trading partners in Europe, including France and
 Spain , Keren Uziyel, an economist at the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit, said in a Sept. 20 e-mail. The European Union
is the North African nation’s largest trading partner, according
to European Commission data.  Stocks Slide  The benchmark  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  retreated about 9
percent this year, compared with a 39 percent plunge in Egypt’s
 EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   International banks can be expected to continue to support
projects in Morocco, Simon Kitchen, Cairo-based strategist at
EFG-Hermes, said by telephone on Sept. 20. The capacity of local
banks to finance such projects may be limited given a loan-to-
deposit ratio of 80 percent in July, central bank data show.  “From a banker’s perspective, you’d be happier financing
an investment rather than financing current spending because the
investment should generate its own returns to pay you back,”
Kitchen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  