-- 
House of Fraser Sales Growth Slows; First-half Profit Falls

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-22T08:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/house-of-fraser-sales-growth-slows-first-half-profit-falls.html
House of Fraser Ltd., the U.K.
department store chain owned by Highland Group Holdings Ltd.,
said sales growth slowed in the last seven weeks after reporting
first-half profit fell on costs to build a new distribution
center.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 6.2 percent to 12.2 million pounds ($18.8
million) in the six months ended July 30, the Glasgow-based
retailer said in a statement today. Sales at stores open at
least a year rose 1.9 percent in the past seven weeks. That
compares with 5.3 percent in the first half.  The 61-store  chain  is adding upmarket brands such as Gucci
and Prada accessories to its stores, extending its own-brand
range, including Howick Tailored menswear, and adding concierge-
style shopping services in stores to attract shoppers as
unemployment fears and inflation saps  consumer confidence . Same-
store sales in the last four weeks have increased to 3.9
percent, the company said.  “We have experienced a slower start to the second half,
however we are encouraged by the pickup in the subsequent
weeks,” Chief Executive Officer John King said in a statement.
“There is no doubt that market conditions will remain
challenging, and we will remain cautious for the remainder of
the year.”  U.K. retail same-store sales fell 0.6 percent in August,
according to the  British Retail Consortium , led by declines in
footwear and housewares.  House of Fraser was taken private in November 2006 by
Highland Acquisitions, a group partially owned by Baugur Group
Hf, the failed Icelandic investor.  The third-largest department store in the U.K. announced in
June that it completed a 250 million pounds bond sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 