-- 
HP CEO Apotheker Is Said to Have Been Unaware of Board’s Plan to Oust Him

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-22T20:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hp-s-apotheker-said-to-have-been-unaware-of-plan-to-replace-him.html
Former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief
Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , who was fired by the board
today, was unaware that his standing as CEO was being questioned
until the news first broke yesterday, according to a person
close to the situation.  Apotheker was preparing to discuss strategy at today’s board
meeting, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
matter is private. Instead, the directors replaced him with
former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  CEO  Meg Whitman , who is on the board.  The directors had been concerned about the stock price and
its lack of improvement under Apotheker’s leadership, a person
close to the situation said. Some top Hewlett-Packard executives
also opposed the $10.3 billion acquisition of Autonomy Corp., a
deal pushed by Apotheker, according to the person.  Under Apotheker, who became CEO in November, Hewlett-
Packard lowered sales forecasts three times and made jarring
strategy shifts. Before yesterday, when Bloomberg first reported
that he may be fired, the company’s stock had plunged 47 percent
on his watch. “Investor exasperation” with management is at
its highest in more than a decade, according to Toni Sacconaghi,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Hewlett-Packard shares surged 6.7 percent yesterday on
speculation that Apotheker would be replaced. At the time,
Whitman was seen as a possible interim CEO, people familiar with
the matter said. Today, the company named her as its permanent
leader, along with switching  Ray Lane  from nonexecutive chairman
to executive chairman.  Hewlett-Packard shares fell $1.18, or 4.9 percent, to
$22.80 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  