-- 
Palestinians in Gaza Defy Hamas to Support Abbas Drive for UN Recognition

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-22T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/palestinians-in-gaza-defy-hamas-to-support-un-recognition-bid.html
As Khamis Nammour ladles steaming
fava-bean stew onto plates of hummus at his Gaza City
restaurant, he keeps an eye on the television screen for news
about the Palestinian bid for United Nations recognition.  “It’s a good beginning,” said Nammour, 36, stirring the
Egyptian stew known as  fuul . “We have been waiting a long time
to have our own state and we deserve it.”  His support for achieving Palestinian statehood through the
UN isn’t shared by Gaza’s ruling Hamas movement. Its leaders
officially frown on the campaign, led by  Palestinian Authority 
President  Mahmoud Abbas  from the  West Bank , home to 2.6 million
people versus 1.6 million in the  Gaza Strip . Eighty-six percent
of Gazans favor the Abbas push, a survey by a Palestinian
research center found, more than in the West Bank.  After the UN recognition effort was formally announced in
May, Hamas leaders condemned Abbas, known locally as Abu Mazen,
for failing to consult with them. They said his willingness to
accept a state that includes only the West Bank, Gaza and east
 Jerusalem  showed weakness and that Israel should be taken over
by Palestinians as well.  When Abbas, 76, speaks to the UN General Assembly today, he
won’t mention that he represents barely two-thirds of
Palestinians, or that the leadership of the other one-third is
pledged to the destruction of Israel.  Divided Leadership  That bifurcation weakens his position at home, said Basem
Zbeidi, a political scientist at the West Bank’s  Birzeit
University  near Ramallah. When he returns, Abbas would be well
advised to pay more attention to Gaza and complete the
reconciliation with Hamas, Zbeidi said.  “Building the whole approach on the premise of unity would
make him stronger and allow him to speak with authority on
behalf of all Palestinians,” he said.  Still, Abbas’s Sept. 21 decision not to press for an
immediate vote by the 15-member  Security Council  on making
 Palestine  the 194th member of the UN hasn’t reduced Gazans’
enthusiasm for the push.  “I never liked Abu Mazen and his band, but when they
decided to go to the UN and ask for an independent Palestinian
state, I did really support them from the bottom of my heart,”
said Asmaa Abu Tahoon, a 30-year-old housewife, in an interview
yesterday. “This is the demand of the vast majority of our
people. I don’t think Abbas would refrain from the vote on the
bid after all that he achieved.”  Staying Away  Abbas’s Fatah movement briefly shared power when Hamas won
legislative elections in 2006. Then clashes with Hamas forced
the Palestinian leader to flee his Gaza home in 2007 and members
of his secular Fatah party were tossed from office buildings to
their deaths. He hasn’t been back.  In the West Bank, thousands packed city squares in
Ramallah, Nablus and Hebron this week to celebrate the UN
campaign. Flags, banners and portraits of Abbas were plastered
on buildings and youngsters danced the Debka folk dance to
euphoric crowds.  In Gaza, Hamas hasn’t explicitly banned street rallies,
though few have materialized.  “I don’t believe the Palestinian people are so
enthusiastic that they want to go to demonstrations,” Yousef
Rezca, a political adviser to top Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh,
said in an interview.  While pollsters found that support for the UN bid was 86
percent in Gaza, it was 82 percent in the West Bank, according
to the independent Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey
Research in Ramallah.  Higher in Gaza  Fifty percent of those surveyed expect the UN effort to
succeed, while 43 percent believe it will fail, according to the
Sept. 19 poll of 1,200 people, which had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.,  “They appreciate what Abbas is doing, even in Gaza,” said
Khalil Shikaki, the poll’s director. “Statehood is important to
people and they’ve shown a level of patience that indicates they
don’t expect to get everything they want immediately.”  Hamas, an Islamic movement that is considered a terrorist
group by  Israel , the U.S. and the European Union, took control
of Gaza after Abbas fled and his Fatah deputies were purged.
Until that point Haniyeh had been prime minister of the
Palestinian Authority, governing both the West Bank and Gaza
with Abbas.  After four years of schism the two sides signed a
reconciliation agreement May 4 that calls for elections to
create a joint government within a year. Abbas sidelined the
push while he moved ahead with the UN campaign, aware of threats
from the  U.S. Congress  to withdraw more than $500 million in
annual funding if the tie-up with Hamas goes through.  More Poverty  With its population crammed into a sandy narrow territory
bordering the  Mediterranean Sea , Gaza has a poverty rate of 33
percent, compared with 18 percent in the West Bank, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Still, economic growth is accelerating to an estimated 17
percent from 15.2 percent in 2010, which reflects the easing in
Israeli trade restrictions. In the West Bank, growth is expected
to slow to 4 percent in 2011 from 7.6 percent last year, the IMF
said. Gaza  unemployment  fell to an estimated 25.6 percent in the
first half of 2011 from 39.3 percent in 2010, according to the
 World Bank .  Gaza has been rebuilding after the territory was physically
devastated by the 22-day offensive Israel opened in 2008 with
the announced aim of stopping Palestinian militants from firing
rockets over the border. Thousands of rockets hit Israel over
the previous eight years before the military action, which left
more than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  While Hamas has strengthened its grip over Gaza since its
break with Fatah, Abbas loyalists have found the leaders more
tolerant than expected on the statehood campaign.  “Hamas’s opposition to the UN bid is pretty soft,” said
Talal Oukal, a political scientist at  Al-Azhar University  in
Gaza City. “They’re not really trying to do anything to stop it
and their criticism hasn’t been very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City through the  Tel Aviv  newsroom at
   sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 