-- 
Perry Leads Romney in Florida Poll That Spotlights Two-Man Race

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-22T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/perry-leads-romney-in-florida-poll-that-spotlights-two-man-race.html
Rick Perry  leads  Mitt Romney  among
Florida Republicans and they each hold double-digit advantages
over the party’s other presidential contenders, according to a
Quinnipiac University poll highlighting the two-man rivalry
defining the race.  Perry, the  Texas  governor, has support from 28 percent of
Florida Republicans in the survey, compared with 22 percent for
Romney, the former Massachusetts governor.  The poll’s release today comes as Perry, Romney and the
other candidates prepare to meet for their third debate this
month. Tonight’s faceoff in Orlando, Florida, is likely to
feature spirited exchanges between the two as Perry seeks to
keep his frontrunner status and Romney vies for momentum.  Perry’s popularity in Florida -- a state that could prove
pivotal next year in both the nomination and general election
contests -- has surged over the last month since he entered the
race, the new survey showed, while Romney’s backing has
stagnated.  Perry’s margin of support has more than doubled since a
Quinnipiac poll released Aug. 4, in which 13 percent of Florida
Republicans backed him. He declared his candidacy on Aug. 13.  Romney drew support from 23 percent in last month’s poll,
about the same as in the current survey.  The poll shows Perry with “the lead -- and the momentum --
among Florida Republicans,” Peter A. Brown, the assistant
director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute, said in a statement.  Obama Matchups  The results have a positive for Romney: a stronger showing
against President  Barack Obama  than Perry. In a general election
matchup in Florida, Romney is backed by 47 percent of the
state’s registered voters to 40 percent for Obama, according to
the poll. Obama runs slightly ahead of Perry, 44 percent to 42
percent.  The finding “reinforces Perry’s need to improve his
standing with independent voters,” Brown said.  The telephone survey of 1,007 registered voters was
conducted Sept. 14-19 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points for its entire sample. The error margin
for its 374 Republican respondents was plus or minus 5.1
percent.  Other Candidates  The poll showed none of the other Republican contenders
reaching double-digit levels of support. Sarah Palin, the former
Alaska governor and the party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee
who is publicly flirting with a run, drew support from 8 percent
of Republicans. Businessman  Herman Cain  and former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  of Georgia were next with 7 percent.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas had 6 percent, followed by
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota with 5 percent.  Were Palin to decide not to run, Perry’s support would grow
to 31 percent while Romney would stay at 22 percent. Also,
Florida Republicans favored Perry in a hypothetical two-man race
with Romney, 46 percent to 38 percent.  The survey suggests that Perry’s much-discussed comparison
of Social Security to a “ Ponzi scheme ” -- seized on by his
Republican opponents to argue he is unelectable -- may not hurt
him in the nomination race but could present him with a
challenge in the general election in  Florida , the state with the
nation’s highest concentration of senior citizens.  While 52 percent of Republicans said it was fair to
characterize the program that way, 58 percent of all registered
voters said the description was unfair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  