-- 
PGA’s Tour’s Top Players Seek $10 Million, Trophy at Tour Championship

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/pga-s-tour-s-top-players-seek-10-million-trophy-at-tour-championship.html
Luke Donald  could do little more
than watch as  Jim Furyk  hoisted golf’s silver FedEx Cup at last
year’s season-ending Tour Championship. Along with the shiny
trophy and $1.4 million tournament prize, Furyk pocketed an
extra $10 million as the U.S. PGA Tour’s season-long champion.  Donald, with $24.1 million in career earnings, comes into
this week’s Tour Championship focused more on the trophy than
the bonus. He finished second to Furyk at the event last year.  “Where I am in my career, it’s not like I can’t afford to
buy things,” Donald, golf’s No. 1-ranked player, said in a news
conference at Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club, where the event
begins today. “I’m really more concentrating on winning the
tournament, picking up another trophy and all the spoils that
come with it.”  In its fifth year, the  PGA Tour ’s season-long FedEx Cup
points title is up for grabs coming into the last of four
playoff events. Tiger Woods won the trophy two of the first
three years and  Vijay Singh  locked up the 2008 title before the
final event was played.  This week, the top five players in the standings are
separated by 1,912 points. First place at the Tour Championship
is worth 2,500 points, which means any of the top five can win
the bonus.  Following a fifth-place finish at last week’s BMW
Championship,  Webb Simpson  leads all players with 5,261 points.
Dustin Johnson is second with 3,841, followed by  Justin Rose 
(3,748), Donald (3,625) and  Matt Kuchar  (3,349). Simpson,
Johnson and Kuchar are Americans. Rose and Donald are English.  “There’s a lot of great things that can happen this
week,” Kuchar said. “I’m excited.”  No  Tiger Woods   Woods won’t be in the field for the second straight year.
The 14-time major tournament winner, who has slipped to No. 49
in the  Official World Golf Ranking  during a 22-month winless
drought, wasn’t among the 125 qualifiers for the playoffs this
year. Furyk is also absent after finishing 22nd at the BMW event,
bumping him down to 36th on the points list. Only the top 30
players qualified for the finale.  With so many players bunched together near the top of the
points list, a variety of scenarios can unfold before a winner
is determined. A year ago, Furyk came to East Lake 11th in
points and captured the title with a scream-inducing par on the
final hole while wearing his hat backward to stop rain from
dripping off the brim in front of his face.  Just by qualifying for this week, all 30 players receive
exemptions into most of next season’s richest events, including
the  Masters Tournament , U.S. and British opens and the Players
championship.  Geoff Ogilvy , 24th on the points list, said he is focused
this week on the tournament’s fringe benefits.  ‘Pretty Special’  “It’s still the Tour Championship,” he said. “At the end
of your career, it would be pretty special to have on your
mantle. I guess I’ll view it like that and try to win.”  Before the creation of the FedEx Cup in 2007, the Tour
Championship often lacked the excitement of a season finale.
Top-ranked players, including Woods and  Phil Mickelson , skipped
the 2006 tournament and fans in Atlanta, where college football
ranks as the area’s most popular sport, stayed away before the
event was moved to September from November.  The PGA Tour, golf’s richest professional circuit, and
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  created the winner-take-all $10 million bonus to add
to the interest. While many millionaire players, such as Donald,
say the money isn’t the motivating factor, it certainly doesn’t
go unnoticed.  “Part of the appeal of the FedEx Cup is that carrot
dangling at the end, whether we need the money or not,” Ogilvy
said in a news conference. “It’s like betting your friend for
$2 on the putting green. It’s better to beat him for $2 than it
is to just beat him for the fun of it. It’s not going to be a
life-changer, but guys are going to be pretty happy with it. It
makes a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  