-- 
Philippine Peso, Bonds Drop on Risk Global Expansion Will Falter

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-22T09:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/philippine-bonds-gain-a-third-day-on-budget-surplus-peso-drops.html
The Philippine peso slid to a six-
month low and bonds dropped on speculation foreign funds are
selling emerging-market assets as the global recovery falters.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks dropped the
most since March after the  Federal Reserve  said there were
“significant downside risks” in the  U.S. economy . Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas “will remain mindful of ensuring policy
settings that could help sustain the growth we are now enjoying,
given the lower risk of inflation that is looming,” Governor
Amando Tetangco said today.  “There’s some unwinding from foreign players and people
are cautious,” said Antonio Espedido, treasurer at China
Banking Corp. in  Manila . “The weaker currency also added to
pressure on bond selling.”  The peso lost 0.6 percent to 43.772 per dollar as of 4 p.m.
in Manila, the weakest close since March 17, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It fell as much as 0.6 percent earlier to
43.785 and is down 3.4 percent so far this month.  The Fed will extend the average maturities of the
Treasuries in its portfolio by purchasing $400 billion of long-
term debt while selling an equal amount of shorter-term
securities, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in  Washington 
after ending a two-day meeting yesterday.  Yields on the Philippine government’s 5.875 percent bonds
due January 2018 rose 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point,
to 5.2 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  The government said today in an e-mailed statement in
Manila that it had a budget surplus of 9.22 billion pesos ($210
million) last month. That narrowed the eight-month deficit to
34.5 billion pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  