-- 
Pitt’s ‘Moneyball’ Rattles Baseball; De Niro’s Assassins: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-22T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/pitt-s-moneyball-rattles-baseball-de-niro-s-hired-killers-rick-warner.html
“ Moneyball ” took seven years to
make it to the big screen. Now we know why.  Turning  Michael Lewis ’s best-seller about baseball
economics into a Hollywood film was a huge challenge -- the
equivalent of hitting a 95 mph fastball. Payroll maneuvers and
complex statistics aren’t easily translated into gripping drama.  Brad Pitt , director Bennett Miller and screenwriter  Aaron Sorkin  (who was brought in to rewrite the script) haven’t struck
out with their underdog sports story but they haven’t hit a home
run, either. In baseball lingo, it’s a line-drive single.  The film focuses on Billy Beane, the Oakland Athletics
general manager whose innovative player-evaluation system helped
the cash-strapped team become a championship contender.  You can only spend so much time explaining the stat-based
formula that Beane (winningly played by Pitt) and his wonkish
Yale-educated assistant Peter Brand (a miscast Jonah Hill) use
to find bargain players overlooked by other teams.  So what we get are frequent flashbacks to Beane’s playing
career, from his days as a high-school hotshot picked in the
first round of the 1980 draft to his last major-league game in
1989. Besides Beane and Brand (a composite character), the
film’s other major figure is Athletics manager Art Howe (a gruff
Philip Seymour Hoffman), a baseball traditionalist infuriated by
the young numbers crunchers.  As for action, it’s mostly confined to a montage of real
clips from Oakland’s record 20-game winning streak in 2002.  That’s the most exciting part of the film, which tells me
that the story might have been better served by a documentary.  “Moneyball,” from  Columbia Pictures , opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Killer Elite’  I lost track of the body count in “ Killer Elite ” about
the same time I stopped caring who lived or died. Since almost
everyone in this hyper action/spy film is a hired assassin, it’s
hard to work up much sympathy when they bite the dust.  Based on “The Feather Men,” a novel by British adventurer
Ranulph Fiennes, the film stars  Jason Statham , Clive Owen,
 Robert De Niro  and an amazing variety of killing methods.
Victims are dispatched by gunfire, choking, knife, hammer,
broken paintbrush and a remote-controlled truck. I kept waiting
for a death ray.  The story pits one group of former British special-ops
agents against another. The first team killed three sons of an
Omani sheik during a secret 1970s war. Now the dying sheik
hires mercenaries to execute his sons’ killers for a $6 million
bounty.  Puzzled De Niro  Director Gary McKendry’s first feature globetrots from
London and Paris to the  Middle East  and  Australia , where Danny
(Statham) is living a quiet life with his girlfriend before
being lured out of retirement to rescue his mentor Hunter (De
Niro) from the sheik’s clutches.  Statham, a veteran action star, is very comfortable beating
his foes to a bloody pulp. But Owen’s curly hair and swarthy
mustache makes him look like a 1970s porn star and De Niro, with
his scraggly beard, appears puzzled as to how he ended up in
this movie.  “Killer Elite,” from Open Road Films, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 