-- 
Pope Warns German Leaders Against Europe Extremism, Breakdown in Society

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-22T16:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/pope-warns-german-leaders-against-europe-extremism-breakdown-in-society.html
Pope Benedict XVI  warned German
lawmakers that Europe risked descending into a “state of
culturelessness” that invites extremism, using the rise of the
Nazis to highlight the kind of breakdown that must be resisted.  In the first address by a pope to the German parliament,
Benedict equated the Nazis to a “band of robbers,” saying that
“we Germans know from our own experience” what happens when
secular culture becomes disconnected from a higher order.  “We have seen how power became divorced from right, how
power opposed right and crushed it, so that the state became an
instrument for destroying right -- a highly organized band of
robbers, capable of threatening the whole world and driving it
to the edge of the abyss,” the pontiff told the lower house,
the Bundestag, in Berlin today.  Benedict, 84, is in Germany at the start of a four-day
visit to his homeland, which includes talks with  Chancellor
Angela Merkel , President  Christian Wulff  and former Chancellor
Helmut Kohl. He celebrated Mass with a crowd of about 70,000 at
Berlin’s Olympic Stadium this evening, before traveling on
tomorrow to the cities of Erfurt and then Freiburg.  Merkel said that she and the pope discussed the need for
policy makers to assert their authority over financial markets
for the public good.  “We spoke about the financial markets and the fact that
politicians should have the power to make policy for the people
and not be driven by the markets,” Merkel told reporters after
their meeting. They also talked about Europe, a topic of “great
interest” for the pope, and European unification, which she
said is “indispensable” for Germans.  ‘Radical Movements’  In his speech, Benedict told lawmakers that justice must be
paramount if the state is to act for the good of the people, and
warned that  Europe  risks being dominated by “positivist
reason” at the expense of religion.  The result, he said, is that “Europe vis-à-vis other world
cultures is left in a state of culturelessness and at the same
time extremist and radical movements emerge to fill the
vacuum.”  Taking care not to endorse any political party, the pope
praised the ecological movement that sprang up in Germany in the
1970s, prompting spontaneous applause from Green Party members
in the chamber.  It “was and continues to be a cry for fresh air which must
not be ignored or pushed aside,” he said.  Lawmaker Boycott  The pope’s speech was boycotted by some lawmakers from the
opposition Greens, Social Democrats and the Left Party.
Christian Stroebele of the Greens said in an interview with
Deutschlandradio Kultur that the head of the Catholic Church was
being honored in a manner denied to other religious leaders.  Gay and lesbian groups are among demonstrators who wended
their way through the streets of Berlin today in protest at the
church’s teachings on homosexuality, contraception and marriage.  The protests contrast with the welcome Benedict received
from hundreds of thousands of worshippers six years ago when he
sailed down the River Rhine to Cologne on his first visit to
 Germany  as pope.  Not everyone agrees with Catholic teaching on lifestyle
issues and “in a free society this dissent must be allowed to
express itself,” Robert Zollitsch, the head of the German
Bishops’ Conference, said in Berlin yesterday. Yet some of the
protests are “excessive.”  The first German pope since the 16th century was greeted by
a front-page image adorning the headquarters of Axel Springer
AG’s mass circulation Bild Zeitung published on April 20, 2005,
the day after he was elected pontiff, saying: “We are Pope!”  ‘Heinous Crime’  The Catholic Church in Germany has encountered a wave of
allegations of sexual abuse by priests that emerged last year,
beginning at an elite Jesuit high school in Berlin. Archbishop
Zollitsch apologized to more than 100 pedophilia victims in
February 2010 after Benedict called abuse a “heinous crime.”  The pope will seek a dialogue with other faiths during his
visit. He is scheduled to meet a group of Muslims in Berlin
tomorrow before heading to Erfurt, the cradle of the Protestant
Reformation. There he’ll meet with representatives of Germany’s
protestant denominations in the Augustinian cloister, where
Martin Luther began his monastic studies in 1505.  Benedict’s trip to Germany in September 2006 was
overshadowed by a lecture at the University of Regensburg in
which he appeared to equate Islam with violence while reading a
dialogue from a 14th-century text.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  