-- 
Port Authority Immune to Liability in 1993 Bombing, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-22T21:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/port-authority-entitled-to-immunity-in-1993-trade-center-bomb.html
The Port Authority of New York and
 New Jersey  is entitled to government immunity from liability for
failing to prevent a bombing at the World Trade Center in 1993,
New York State’s highest court ruled.  A total of 648 plaintiffs filed 174 complaints against the
Port Authority for injuries sustained in the bombing, accusing
the agency of failing to provide adequate security by not
establishing checkpoints at the garage, restricting public
access or inspecting vehicles.  A state Supreme Court jury in 2005 found the Port Authority
liable for negligently failing to maintain the parking garage in
a “reasonably safe condition,” assigning 68 percent of the
fault to the agency and 32 percent to the terrorists.  The judge in the case denied an agency request to dismiss
the complaint, a ruling that was upheld by the Appellate
Division. In 2008, jurors awarded $824,000 to plaintiff Antonio
Ruiz. The Court of Appeals in  Albany  today reversed the judgment
in a 4-3  ruling  and ordered Ruiz’s complaint dismissed.  “Governmental entities cannot be expected to be absolute,
infallible guarantors of public safety, but in order to
encourage them to engage in the affirmative conduct of
diligently investigating security vulnerabilities and
implementing appropriate safeguards, they must be provided with
the latitude to render those critical decisions without threat
of legal repercussion,” Judge Theodore T. Jones wrote for the
majority.  Hertz Employee  Ruiz, 55, an employee in a Hertz Global Holdings Inc.
garage under the World Trade Center when the bomb exploded, sued
the Port Authority in February 1994, asking for $3 million in
damages, said Jonathan Rapport, an attorney with Richard J. Katz
LLP in  New York , a firm that represented Ruiz.  Ruiz was thrown against a wall by the blast and suffered
loss of hearing and sight in one eye and had to move out of  New
York City  because the “ever present sound of sirens, other
noise and chaos triggered memories of the bomb,” Rapport said.  “It’s a tragedy all over for Mr. Ruiz and the remaining
plaintiffs that are part of the steering committee,” Rapport
said in a telephone interview. “We don’t agree with the court’s
decision and we don’t feel that it follows the court’s
precedent.”  Final Resolution  “While we are still reviewing the decision, we are pleased
that the court has accepted the  Port Authority ’s longstanding
position on this matter recognizing its continuing governmental
immunity,” the Port Authority said in a statement. “Today’s
ruling brings us closer to a final resolution of this emotional
process.”  Six people, including four Port Authority employees, were
killed when terrorists Ramzi Yousef and Eyad Ismoil detonated a
fertilizer bomb in a rented van inside the Trade Center’s
parking garage on Feb. 29, 1993, creating a hole six stories
deep.  Yousef and Ismoil were later captured in Pakistan and
Jordan and convicted in connection with the bombing in 1997,
while four other terrorists involved in the attack were
convicted in March 1994. Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and nine other
members of the same jihadist organization were convicted in
January 1996 of crimes related to the bombing. All were
sentenced to 240 years in prison.  The Port Authority began counterterrorism planning in the
early 1980s, Jones wrote in today’s decision.  ‘Prime Target’  In 1984, a report prepared at the request of the agency’s
police superintendent said the Trade Center was a “prime
target” for terrorists, and a consultant wrote in a 1985 report
that an attempted bombing was “probable” and that the facility
was “highly vulnerable” through the parking lot, which needed
better surveillance such as security cameras and ground mirrors,
Jones said.  Another report, issued in 1985 by an office created to
study security risks to Port Authority facilities, found that a
vehicle bomb could be driven into the Trade Center and parked in
the garage and detonated later, although such an attack was
considered “low risk,” Jones said.  That report also suggested ways to improve security at the
Trade Center, including the possibility of eliminating public
parking, Jones said. Another report conducted by an outside
security consultant found that vehicles had uncontrolled access
to the lowest levels of the garage.  Yet another consulting firm hired in 1991 after the Persian
 Gulf War  found that the parking garage was at a lower risk of a
terrorist attack than the public concourse, which had the
highest risk, and the plaza, Jones said.  More Lighting  The Port Authority boosted security at the parking garage
as a result of the studies, installing surveillance cameras,
door alarms and more lighting, stationing a full-time guard at
the entrance and sending officers on patrols on access ramps,
Jones said. The agency increased security further after
receiving intelligence in January 1993 that a New York office
complex was being targeted for attack, Jones said.  “While the instant terrorist bombing occurred within the
parking garage and may focus some attention on proprietary
responsibility, the Port Authority’s police resources were
devoted to countering criminal incidents for the benefit of all
who visited the WTC,” Jones said. “Any failure to secure the
parking garage predominantly derives from a failed allocation of
police resources.”  Judge Carmen B. Ciparick, writing for the minority, said
the agency was “repeatedly warned” by experts that the parking
area posed a security risk. Ciparick said the authority’s status
as a government agency doesn’t prevent it from liability.  Basic Measures  “The Port Authority’s failure to implement discrete and
basic security measures in the public parking area of the
commercial building complex arose from the exercise of its
proprietary -- rather than governmental -- obligations,”
Ciparick wrote. “Treating the Port Authority as a private
landlord, there was sufficient evidence at trial to support the
jury’s finding of liability and its apportionment of fault.”  A jury in state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  in March 2009
ordered the Port Authority to pay $5.5 million to Linda Nash, an
ex-Deloitte & Touche LLP manager who was wounded and trapped in
the parking garage during the 1993 bombing. Nash was allowed to
present arguments to the Court of Appeals, although her
complaint was deemed beyond the scope of the appeal.  The case is In the Matter of World Trade Center Bombing
Litigation, Steering Committee v. the Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey, New York state Court of Appeals, No. 217
(Albany.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 