-- 
Proposed IRS Budget Cuts Would Widen U.S. Tax Gap, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-22T16:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/proposed-irs-budget-cuts-would-widen-u-s-tax-gap-lawmaker-says.html
A proposed $600 million reduction
in the  Internal Revenue Service ’s 2012 budget may cost the
Treasury as much as $4 billion in forgone revenue, said a senior
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee.  If enacted, the budget cut would “increase the deficit and
widen the tax gap” because the IRS “collects between $4 and $7
for every $1 of funding,” said Representative  John Lewis  of
 Georgia , the top Democrat on the tax-writing panel’s Oversight
subcommittee.  Lewis spoke at a joint meeting today of the Oversight and
Select Revenue Measures subcommittees called to examine use of
the U.S. tax code to influence energy policy.  The IRS had a budget allocation of $12.1 billion for fiscal
2011 and requested $13.3 billion for fiscal 2012. Earlier this
month a Senate panel approved a bill funding the agency at $11.7
billion for fiscal 2012.  In July a House appropriations panel approved legislation
that would fund the IRS at $11.5 billion for fiscal 2012.  Republican leaders on the panels focused on how the IRS has
administered energy tax credits. Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican and chairman of the oversight
subcommittee, said the agency has done a poor job of overseeing
a number of energy tax credits including the plug-in electric
and alternative motor vehicle credit.  ‘Claimed a Bicycle’  Even though that credit “only applied to new vehicles, IRS
allowed credits when returns listed years such as 1991, 1979,
and strangely enough, even 1300,” Boustany said. “They even
allowed plug-in and hybrid credits for vehicles such as a
‘Cadillac Escalade,’ ‘Hummer H3,’ and ‘Harley Classic.’ One
taxpayer successfully claimed a bicycle.”  J. Russell George, the  Department of Treasury inspector
general for tax administration , told the panel that the IRS can
do more to prevent waste and fraud in overseeing energy credits.  “They do not effectively utilize the information that they
have,” said George, who earlier this year issued two reports
critical of the agency’s handling of the tax credits.  Lewis said budget cuts would undermine the agency’s ability
to root out fraud and make it harder for the IRS to adapt to
policy changes.  “Any serious discussion of  energy policy  and  tax reform 
must begin with fully funding the agency,” Lewis said.  He asked a witness, Richard Byrd, commissioner of the IRS’s
wage and investment division, how the proposed cut would affect
the agency.  “We are going to have to dramatically reduce our staffing
in a number of places, including how we look for fraud,” Byrd
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  