-- 
Prostate Biopsy Doubles Risk of Hospitalization for Men in Study

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/prostate-biopsy-doubles-risk-of-hospitalization-for-men-in-study.html
Men who receive prostate cancer
biopsies are more than twice as likely to end up in the hospital
from complications than those who don’t get the procedure, a
report says, highlighting risks with the practice.  The study, the largest of its kind, looked at data from
150,000 Medicare patients 65 and older from 1991 to 2007 and
found a 6.9 percent hospitalization rate in the 30 days
following the procedure, compared with 2.9 percent of men who
didn’t receive the treatment. Patients should be made more aware
of the possible complications associated with the often life-
saving process, according to the analysis released today.  “Prostate biopsy is an essential procedure for detecting
prostate cancers,” Edward Schaeffer, a  Johns Hopkins  University
School of Medicine urologist and oncologist and the study’s
senior investigator, said in a statement. “However, it is
important for men to be aware of the possible risks of prostate
biopsies, which are often described as simple outpatient
procedures.”  A prostate biopsy typically entails sending an ultrasound-
guided needle about a dozen times through the rectum to collect
specimens from the walnut-sized gland that sits under the
bladder. The 15-minute test carries an infection risk because
the needle can take bacteria from the bowel into the prostate,
bladder and bloodstream.  Serious Infections  While the overall rate of hospitalization in the 30-day
period following the procedure has declined steadily since 1991,
the rate of men who had serious infections rose, to 1.2 percent
in 2007, compared with 0.5 percent in 2000, the study found. An
increase in drug-resistant germs may be to blame, Schaeffer
said.  “Antibiotics are routinely given to men at the time of
biopsy, and the fact that infections serious enough to cause
hospital admissions have been on the rise makes us think that
these types of complications are occurring because of a steady
increase in antimicrobial resistance rates in America,”
Schaeffer said.  Previous studies have found a small, growing percentage of
men undergoing prostate biopsies becoming critically ill and
dying from bacterial infections.  Today’s study found no increased risk of mortality in those
who had biopsies compared with the group of men with similar
characteristics who didn’t undergo the procedure.  Prostate cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer death
in men, according to the  American Cancer Society . More than
240,000 men will be diagnosed with the disease this year, and it
will lead to about 33,730 deaths, the organization said.  The study was released online in advance of its publication
in the November issue of The  Journal  of Urology. It was funded
by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the U.S. National
Institutes of Health, an American Urological Association
Astellas Research Star Award, and the Patrick C. Walsh Prostate
Cancer Research Fund at Johns Hopkins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 