-- 
Protests Greet Pope on Visit to German Homeland

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-22T08:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/protests-greet-pope-on-visit-to-german-homeland.html
Pope Benedict XVI  arrived in Berlin
for a four-day visit to his homeland, where he will address the
German parliament and meet with  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  Merkel and President  Christian Wulff  greeted the 84-year-
old pontiff at Berlin’s Tegel airport today. He is due to end
the first day of his trip by celebrating Mass to a crowd of
70,000 at Berlin’s Olympic Stadium. He will then travel to the
cities of Erfurt and Freiburg as well as meet with former
Chancellor Helmut Kohl before returning to  Rome  on Sept. 25.  The pope’s speech to the lower house of parliament, or
Bundestag, at about 4:15 p.m. may be boycotted by lawmakers
including Christian Stroebele of the  Green Party , who said in an
interview on Deutschlandradio Kultur that the head of the Roman
Catholic Church was being honored in a manner denied to other
religious leaders. The protests contrast with the welcome
Benedict received from hundreds of thousands of worshippers six
years ago when he sailed down the River Rhine to Cologne on his
first visit to Germany as pope.  “None of this is religious tourism, even less a show,”
Benedict said in comments  broadcast on ARD  television on Sept.
18. “It should be about moving God back into our field of
vision, a so-often absent God, for whom we have so much need.”  Gay and lesbian groups are among demonstrators due to wend
their way through the streets of Berlin today in protest at the
church’s teachings on homosexuality, contraception and marriage.  Front-Page Image  Not everyone agrees with the Catholic Church’s teachings on
lifestyle issues and “in a free society this dissent must be
allowed to express itself,” Robert Zollitsch, the head of the
German Bishops’ Conference, said in Berlin yesterday. Yet some
of the protests are “excessive.”  The first German pope since the 16th century will also be
greeted by a front-page image adorning the headquarters of Axel
Springer AG’s mass circulation Bild Zeitung published on April
20, 2005, the day after he was elected pontiff, saying: “We are
Pope!”  “It’s important again to stress Christian unity in our
time because secularization continues to creep up and the things
we share together in Christian faith should continue to be
called up,” Merkel said in a Sept. 17 statement welcoming the
pope.  The Catholic Church in  Germany  has encountered a wave of
allegations of sexual abuse by priests that emerged last year,
beginning at an elite Jesuit high school in Berlin. Archbishop
Robert Zollitsch apologized to more than 100 pedophilia victims
in February 2010 after Benedict called such abuse a “heinous
crime.”  Cradle of Reformation  The pope will seek a dialogue with other faiths during his
visit. He is scheduled to meet a group of Muslims in Berlin
tomorrow before heading to Erfurt, the cradle of the Protestant
Reformation. There he’ll meet with representatives of Germany’s
protestant denominations in the Augustinian cloister, where
Martin Luther began his monastic studies in 1505.  Benedict’s trip to Germany in September 2006 was
overshadowed by a lecture at the University of Regensburg in
which he appeared to equate Islam with violence while reading a
dialogue from a 14th-century text.  Two years ago the pope stoked controversy when he lifted
the excommunication of Bishop Richard Williamson and three other
priests days after Williamson denied the Nazi Holocaust. The
action drew a rebuke from Merkel, who said the church had not
provided sufficient clarification for its decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  