-- 
Rand Has Worst Five-Day Plunge Since 2008 as Interest Rate Left Unchanged

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-22T14:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/rand-falls-to-2-year-low-as-fed-says-u-s-economy-faces-downside-risks-.html
The rand tumbled, heading for its
biggest five-day plunge since 2008, as the weakening global
economy hurt demand for riskier assets and after the central
bank signaled it may cut interest rates to boost the economy.  The rand fell as much as 5.4 percent to 8.3401 per dollar
to its weakest level since July 2009, and was down 4.1 percent
at 8.2398 at 4:36 p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its drop this
week to 9.1 percent. The currency broke through 11 per euro,
sliding 2.1 percent to 11.0996.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated the most since
November 2008 and commodity prices sank after the  Federal
Reserve  warned of “significant downside risks” to the  U.S.
economy . The rand maintained its decline after the central bank
left its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.5 percent and Governor
 Gill Marcus  reiterated it would “act appropriately” should the
global economy continue to deteriorate.  “She was at pains to stress the risks to the economy,”
Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “Don’t discount the
possibility of a rate cut, and that would be negative for the
currency.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in November,
which investors use to lock in borrowing costs, reduced an
earlier advance to as much as 5.47 percent as traders pared bets
that the interest would remain on hold at the last MPC meeting
this year. The contracts were one basis point up at 5.35
percent.  Rand Move ‘Welcome’  The rand’s decline will aid the nation’s exporters while
posing a “moderate but rising” risk to inflation, Marcus said,
echoing Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  who earlier said
the weaker currency may boost economic growth.  “There seems to be a joint line from government that this
move is welcome,” Peter Attard Montalto, an analyst at Nomura
International Plc in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments. “I
think we will see the  Reserve Bank  more in the market trying to
ensure this move is orderly.”  The central bank doesn’t target a level for the rand and
won’t intervene to weaken or strengthen the  exchange rate ,
Marcus said. The bank would continue dollar purchases aimed at
building foreign-currency reserves, she said.  “If it stays at this level for a long period of time it
will have that attraction for exporters,” Marcus said. “It
could be positive but we do not take action to set or keep it at
a particular level.”  Retailers Drop  The slide in the rand and move from riskier assets
triggered a fall in South African retailers, which are mostly
foreign-owned. The FTSE/Africa General Retailers Index declined
3.7 percent, its biggest slide in more than 16 months.  High trading volumes yesterday were likely “foreigners
dumping our retailers,” Syd Vianello, a Nedbank Capital retail
analyst, said by phone. “The average South African retail share
today is 50 percent to 60 percent owned offshore. When
foreigners decided to dump, it’s sell everything.”  Retailers import about 70 percent of their apparel and the
sharp decline in the value of the rand will push input costs
higher, Vianello said.  Local-currency bonds declined, with 10-year yields rising
to the highest in more than seven weeks, after Marcus said
inflation will peak at 6.2 percent in the first quarter of 2012,
above the central bank’s target range of 3 to 6 percent.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 fell, driving the
yield up 15 basis points to 8.27 percent, the highest since July
29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  