-- 
Rangers-Flyers Winter Classic Seats for Sale Online Before Announcement

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-23T15:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/rangers-flyers-winter-classic-seats-for-sale-online-before-announcement.html
Tickets for this season’s  National
Hockey League  outdoor Winter Classic between the  Philadelphia
Flyers  and  New York Rangers  already are for sale online, even
before the league announced the game’s location or participants.  At least 31 tickets and one luxury suite are available for
purchase on the resale website  TicketCenterOnline.com  for a Jan.
2 game between the Rangers and Flyers at Citizens Bank Park, the
home of  Major League Baseball ’s  Philadelphia Phillies . The NHL,
which hasn’t released any details about the game, said yesterday
on its website that it would host a “major press event” on
Sept. 26 at the ballpark.  NHL spokesman Jamey Horan said in an e-mail that no one had
tickets to the Winter Classic because the league hadn’t
announced the details of the game. He didn’t respond to
questions regarding those details.  “There are no tickets on sale at this time,” Horan said.
“Once we make the announcement, we will release pertinent
information on the correct way to acquire. Any other
advertisement is incorrect.”  Viveca Woods, a spokeswoman for  TicketNetwork , which
supplies the website, said today in an e-mail that any tickets
offered by the company are verified before they go on sale.  “Tickets that are listed on TicketNetwork’s ticket
exchange/marketplace are obtained in advance by professional
ticket brokers through: fan clubs, VIP persons, credit-card
promotions, and friends of the team, prior to when the public
can buy tickets at the box office,” Woods said.  Guaranteed Sale  Woods added that the seats can also come from season-ticket
holders, and that the company offers a 125 percent guarantee
with every sale.  The most expensive tickets available on
TicketCenterOnline.com are $1,455, with the cheapest priced at
$508 per seat. The luxury box, which includes 16 tickets and
three parking passes, is being offered at $53,253.  This is the fifth consecutive year that the NHL will hold
an outdoor game around the new year. The Jan. 1, 2011, game
between the  Pittsburgh Penguins  and Washington Capitals was the
most-watched regular-season NHL game since 1975.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  