-- 
Rate-Cut Bets at Seven-Week Low as RBA Talks Up Economy: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-23T03:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/rate-cut-bets-at-seven-week-low-as-rba-talks-up-economy-australia-credit.html
Traders slashed bets on an
interest-rate cut in  Australia  next month to the lowest level in
seven weeks after the central bank showed optimism the nation
will weather Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in the U.S.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Deputy Governor Ric Battellino
signaled Sept. 21 the economy should extend a two-decade
expansion and that market pricing of rate cuts was
“pessimistic.” Australia’s economy grew 1.2 percent last
quarter, the fastest pace in four years, while an 11 percent
decline in the currency against the  U.S. dollar  since July 31
may aid struggling industries such as manufacturing and tourism.  “The RBA would rather err on the hawkish than the dovish
side as there are still pockets of strength in the economy,
particularly if you look at the mining investment boom and
growth in household disposable income,” said Pieter Van Der Schaft, head of Asian rates research at Morgan Stanley in  Hong
Kong . “With the decline in the Aussie dollar, financial
conditions are easing somewhat so that is another reason for
them to delay” any cuts.  The yield on October cash rate futures rose 16 basis points
this month to 4.65 percent, compared with the 4.75 percent
benchmark, the highest since Aug. 1 and on course for the
biggest monthly increase since September last year. The cost to
lock in fixed rates for three months in Australia rose 4 basis
points since Sept. 19, the most in the Group of 10 currencies.  Consumer Spending  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded more than
economists forecast last quarter, driven by rising consumer
spending and a rebound in exports after natural disasters
disrupted coal mining at the start of the year. Strategists
expect growth of 1.84 percent this year and 4.25 percent in
2012, according to surveys by Bloomberg News.  The U.S., where employment growth unexpectedly stagnated in
August, will expand 1.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent next
year, while GDP in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
will surge 9.3 percent and 8.7 percent, separate surveys show.  There are “reasonable grounds for optimism” that
Australia’s economy won’t stall due to the slump in the U.S.,
Battellino said in a speech in  New York .  Markets appear to have reached “a pessimistic assessment”
based on the assumption U.S. and European economic problems will
“flow through” to Australia, he told the Euromoney Australian
and New Zealand Debt Capital Markets Forum. “The bank’s
approach will be to keep an open mind.”  The RBA said in minutes of its Sept. 6 meeting released
this week that it’s too early to gauge any effects of a U.S.
slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis on other regions.  Mining Boom  The central bank raised  interest rates  seven times
beginning in October 2009 to help control inflation amid the
nation’s biggest mining boom in more than a century.  Chinese demand for Australian  iron ore  and coal help spur
the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since
it was freely floated in 1983.  The currency’s 58 percent surge since the end of 2008 to
its record curbed profits for companies in manufacturing and
tourism with BlueScope Steel Ltd. and Qantas Airways Ltd.
announcing plans last month to trim their workforces. The
government will hold a conference Oct. 6 focusing on  job
creation , the future of manufacturing and “adapting to the high
dollar,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said Sept. 11.  The so-called Aussie fell below parity yesterday for the
first time in more than six weeks after a preliminary index of
purchasing managers signaled Chinese manufacturing may shrink
for a third month in September. It traded at 98.06 U.S. cents as
of 12:55 p.m. in Sydney today.  Financial Turmoil  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing and the global financial turmoil spurred by
speculation  Greece  will default.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
on corporate debt climbed 23 basis points to 217.1 basis points
yesterday, the biggest one-day jump since March 6, 2009 and the
highest level since July 13 of that year, according to data
provider CMA. The risk benchmark fell 3 basis points to 214
basis points as of 10:55 a.m. in Sydney today, according to
Credit Agricole SA prices.  The extra yield investors demand to own the nation’s
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has
increased 52 basis points this quarter to 229 basis points on
Sept. 21, the highest since November 2009, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Corporate and Collateralized Index
shows. The spread was last at 228 basis points.  Investors are estimating Australian consumer prices will
rise at an annual 2.46 percent pace over the coming five years,
down from this year’s high of 3.14 percent on May 6, according
to the gap between indexed government debt and bonds that aren’t
linked to inflation.  Benchmark Yields  The 10-year benchmark government bond yield has tumbled 36
basis points this month to 4.01 percent at 1:02 p.m. in Sydney
today. Yields on all Australian bonds, including the longest-
dated security maturing April 2023, have been lower than the
cash rate since Aug. 9.  The chance of the RBA lowering rates when it next meets on
Oct. 4 fell to 46 percent today from 80 percent a week ago,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps
trading.  Traders are wagering the central bank will cut rates to
4.01 percent by December, up from a low of 3.47 percent Aug. 9.  Morgan Stanley recommends paying the overnight indexed swap
rate on expectations that the RBA won’t reduce rates at least
till year end. The central bank may cut 50 basis points in the
first half of 2012, Van Der Schaft forecasts.  “The key for them now is the employment outlook,
particularly private-sector wage growth, and the fact that so
far  China’s economy  remains strong and commodity prices are
relatively firm,” he said.  The RBA will hold its key rate at 4.75 percent, according
to 23 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on Sept. 13.
Sixteen expect the rate to be higher by the end of 2012, five
expect it to be lower and three say it will remain unchanged.  “We still think the next move in the cash rate will be
up,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist in Sydney at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. “The RBA’s made it pretty clear that they’re still
worried about the medium-term inflation outlook, and provided
things don’t deteriorate a lot more offshore, that will remain
their focus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 