-- 
Real’s World-Worst Plunge May Trigger Intervention Reversal: Brazil Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-22T20:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/real-s-world-worst-plunge-may-trigger-intervention-reversal-brazil-credit.html
The real’s biggest five-day plunge
since 1999 prompted  Brazil  to use derivatives to shore up the
currency, reversing a 28-month-old strategy aimed at stemming
gains.  Brazil’s currency tumbled as much as 4.1 percent against
the dollar today before the central bank auctioned swaps that
are equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market, helping
the real pare losses to 0.9 percent. The real has lost 9.4
percent since Sept. 14, handing investors in real-denominated
bonds a loss of 13.5 percent in dollar terms this month through
yesterday, the worst performance in emerging markets, according
to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Speculation is mounting that the real’s slide may deepen,
pushing up import prices and adding to the highest inflation
rate in six years, if the central bank fails to provide dollars
or deploy some of its $352 billion in reserves to defend the
real. Concern policy makers’ surprise rate cut last month
signals they are giving up on their goal of slowing inflation is
compounding the real’s decline as  Europe ’s debt crisis erodes
demand for emerging-market assets.  “The central bank is signaling it’s uncomfortable with the
current foreign-exchange rate,” said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho, chief economist with Franklin Templeton Investments
in Brazil. “Other measures to defend the real may come.”  The decline in the real is a reversal of a 46 percent rally
from the end of 2008 through August that prompted policy makers
to buy dollars, raise taxes on bond investors and impose trading
restrictions to stem the appreciation and protect exporters.  Rate Cut  Today the central bank accepted bids for 55,075 currency
swaps of 112,290 on offer, according to a statement in the
Sisbacen system. The real lost 0.9 percent to 1.8930 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 4 p.m. New York time, from 1.8756 yesterday. The
last time policy makers entered the  derivatives market  to weaken
the dollar was in June 2009.  The central bank hasn’t bought dollars in the  spot market 
since Sept. 13, breaking a practice it adopted since May 2009.
It bought $47.6 billion in the first eight months of this year,
surpassing the $41.4 billion it purchased in 2010. It last sold
dollars on Feb. 3, 2009, when the real closed at 2.3052 per
dollar.  The central bank declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement.  Brazil sees no need to sell foreign reserves in the spot
currency market at the moment because the economy still receives
dollar inflows from export revenue, a government official said.  Market Liquidity  The central bank is ready to offer enough swap contracts to
ensure adequate liquidity in the currency futures market, said
the official, who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak about the topic publicly.  The central bank intervention came as foreigners cut their
bets on the real’s gain by 70 percent from a record high in
July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on trading
at BM&FBovespa SA,  Latin America ’s largest securities exchange.
The bullish bets in the futures and dollar spread contracts,
known as DDI, have dropped to $7 billion, the lowest level since
August 2010, from $24.6 billion on July 7.  Brazil joined  Turkey  on Aug. 31 as the only Group of 20
nations to lower rates in the past two months to shore up
growth. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the
benchmark interest rate a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31,
after raising it at the previous five policy meetings, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy.  ‘Bulletproof’       Consumer prices climbed 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  “I used to think the Brazil story was bulletproof, but to
me there have been a lot of cracks in the armor in the last six
to nine months because of policy makers,”  Win Thin , global head
of emerging-markets currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman
& Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “I couldn’t
think it’s going toward a very pretty end.”  The dollar’s gains in recent days was a “normal” reaction
to investor uncertainty about the European debt crisis, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in  Washington  today.
Mantega accused the U.S.,  Japan  and Europe last year of sparking
a global “currency war” by keeping rates near zero.  President  Dilma Rousseff  urged world leaders yesterday to
“impose controls on the currency war” before the  Federal
Reserve  announced a plan to lengthen the maturities of its bond
holdings to reduce borrowing costs.  Currency Swaps  The real reached 1.9549 per dollar earlier today, the
weakest level since July 2009, before the central bank
intervention. It fell to a six-year low against the Australian
dollar and weakest level against the yen since March 2009. The
16 percent loss in the real this month doubles the drop in the
Botswana pula and almost triples the decline in the euro.  The Turkish lira fell to an all-time low of 1.8474 per
dollar yesterday.  Brazil’s central bank yesterday decided not to roll over
reverse-currency swap contracts expiring in October, which will
lead to the unwinding of $2 billion worth of bets against the
dollar. It’s the first time policy makers refrained from
renewing the contracts since January.  Yields on  interest-rate  futures due in January 2013 fell 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 10.69 percent. The
yields earlier rose to 10.96 percent, the highest level since
Aug. 31, in part on concern that the currency slide will limit
the room for the central bank to cut rates further.  Volatility Jumps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 26 basis
points to 282, the highest level since July 2009, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default
climbed 23 basis points yesterday to a two-year high of 196,
according to CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The real lost 24 percent in the three months through
December 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. froze global credits and Brazilian companies’ bets on the
currency went awry. It touched a three-year-low of 2.6202 on
Dec. 5, 2008.  Petrobras Earnings  “At these levels, I am not sure if the government is
massively worried about this,”  Roberto Melzi , a local markets
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Almir Barbassa, chief financial officer of state-owned oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA, said in an interview in Rio de
Janeiro yesterday that the currency’s slump may reduce profit
this quarter as the cost of servicing dollar-denominated debt
rises in local-currency terms. The state-controlled oil producer
will likely book a financial loss, following a 2.9 billion-real
($1.5 billion) gain in the second quarter, should the Brazilian
currency hold below 1.7 per dollar, Barbassa said.  A real weaker than 1.7 per dollar would add 0.5 percentage
point to inflation over the next 12 months, said  Zeina Latif , an
economist at RBS Securities in  Sao Paulo . Prices will rise 5.71
percent in the next 12 months and increase 5.5 percent next
year, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 16 central
bank survey of about 100 economists.  “Considering inflation seems to exceed the center of the
target in 2012, it would be bad news,” Latif said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “My fear is that this
impact can be higher as the inflationary inertia increases. This
is not a comfortable situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 