-- 
Treasury 30-Year Yields Tumble Most Over Two Days Since 2008 on Economy

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-22T21:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/treasury-yield-falls-to-record-on-fed-bond-purchase-twist-.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rallied,
pushing yields down the most over two days since the depths of
the financial crisis almost three years ago, as stocks fell
worldwide on concern the economy is sliding into recession.  Benchmark 10-year notes rose for a fifth day in the longest
stretch of advances since May a day after the central bank said
it would buy $400 billion of longer-term debt while selling an
equal amount of shorter maturities to cap borrowing costs under
what is known as Operation Twist. The extra yield 30-year bonds
offer over two-year notes shrank to the narrowest since 2009.  “People are really scared,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The
market expected a curve twist, but not to this extent, and so we
are seeing a strong long-end rally in bonds. And we are in the
midst of a situation where every day the likelihood of a global
recession creeps up stronger.”  Yields on 30-year bonds decreased 20 basis points, or 0.20
percentage point, to 2.80 percent at 5:11 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent
securities due in August 2041 advanced 4 11/32, or $43.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 119 6/32. Yields fell as much as 44 basis
points over two days, the most since November 2008.  Two-Year Yields  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.20 percent
after dropping this week to a record low 0.14 percent. The
difference between 30- and two-year yields was 2.59 percentage
points, the lowest on a closing basis since February 2009.  A gain of more than one point in 10-year notes pushed
yields down 14 basis points to 1.72 percent after touching
1.6961 percent, the lowest in Fed figures beginning in 1953.  Yields on 10-year notes may drop to 1.60 percent by the end
of the year,  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy at the
primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in a research
note. The previous forecast was 1.75 percent. The 30-year bond
yield may drop to 2.50 percent, compared with a previous
projection of 3.30 percent.  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasuries and
inflation-indexed debt, a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices known as the break-even rate, dropped to 1.71 percentage
points, the lowest on a closing basis since September 2010.  At today’s $11 billion government auction of 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, the debt produced a
yield of 0.078 percent. The average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of five primary dealers was 0.048 percent. Investors bid
for 2.61 times the amount of debt offered, compared with an
average of 2.84 for the past 10 auctions of the securities.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 30.4 percent of the offering,
compared with 41.6 percent at the July auction and the 10-sale
average of 42.4 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 35.7 percent, the
highest in data beginning in 2003.  “The auction was OK,” said Michael Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, which as a
primary dealer is obliged to participate in U.S. debt offerings.
“We are in the midst of a risk-off trade, and break-evens are
considered risk assets. There was a pretty significant direct
bid, showing there is demand for inflation protection.”  The U.S. government will auction $35 billion of two-year
notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of
seven-year securities in separate offerings beginning Sept. 27.  Returns on Bonds  Thirty-year bonds have returned 30 percent this year, more
than triple the 8.9 percent gain in the broader Treasury market,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The gain in
long bonds is the biggest since a 41 percent increase for 2008.  After a two-day policy meeting that ended yesterday, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  cited “significant downside
risks” in the  U.S. economy  and announced it will buy bonds due
in six to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of
debt maturing in three years or less.  The purchases “should put downward pressure on longer-term
 interest rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the Fed said in its statement.  The central bank also announced a measure to support the
mortgage market by reinvesting maturing housing debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of  U.S. government debt .  ‘Shock and Awe’  “The Fed gave us a surprise -- a shock and awe,” said
 David Ader , head of government bond strategy in Stamford,
 Connecticut , at CRT Capital Group LLC. “They will be buying 90
percent of the 30-year sector for the next nine months, so
that’s more than anyone anticipated. It gave us the drama of
these last two days.”  U.S. debt securities got a boost as stocks slumped
worldwide. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 3.2
percent, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 4.6 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, gauging the
greenback against the currencies of major U.S. trading partners,
rose to the highest level since February as investors took
refuge in the safest assets.  “Markets are once again looking forward and not liking
what they see,”  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist
at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford , wrote in a research note to
clients. “Twist has arrived. Low for even longer is only
reinforced by the Fed decision, and we see no reason to change
our mantra.” The unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is a
primary dealer.  The world is on the eve of the next financial crisis with
sovereign debt its epicenter, according to Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s
largest bond fund.  The  European Central Bank  hasn’t put in place a “circuit
breaker” to contain the region’s turmoil, El-Erian said at an
event in  Washington  today. Responses of policy makers to the
crisis haven’t been structural, he said, adding that the U.S.
and  Europe  have not addressed impediments to economic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  