-- 
Reliance Said to Need Up to 4 Years to Revive India Gas Area

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-23T11:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/reliance-said-to-need-up-to-4-years-to-revive-largest-gas-field.html
Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  may need three to four years
to raise output from India’s biggest gas field because the
reservoir is harder to tap than previously estimated, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Reliance, which sold a 30 percent stake in the fields to
BP, has sought the Indian government’s permission to develop
smaller areas to counter a drop from its main KG-D6 block off
the east coast, the person said, asking not to be identified
because the plan is private. The company is also studying buying
shale-gas assets in Canada, the person said  Profit at Reliance has missed analysts’ forecasts for six
of the last seven quarters and its shares have slumped 27
percent this year as production of the clean-burning fuel falls.
Tests showed increasing production may even be unviable at
government controlled prices, the person said.  “The gas business is the most important for their growth
and investors are hoping it’ll rise quickly,” said Walter Rossini, who oversees the equivalent of $269 million of Indian
stocks, including Reliance, at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan. “Without the growth in gas their shares will stagnate.”  Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance, declined to comment
on the gas production and on acquisitions when reached by
telephone today.  Shares of India’s biggest company by value fell 2 percent
to 770.60 rupees, following yesterday’s 6.1 percent drop, the
biggest two-day decline since Nov. 3, 2009. The benchmark
Sensitive Index lost 0.3 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Reliance’s debt using credit-default
swaps has risen 132 basis points to 324 basis points this
quarter, the most since the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  London-based BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, is
studying data for the deepwater block in the  Bay of Bengal  after
receiving the Indian government’s approval to buy the stake in
23 fields valued at $7.2 billion, according to an e-mail
response from BP yesterday.  “We need to understand the options through joint
evaluation of data before deciding the next course of action,”
BP said in the e-mail. Reliance and BP are planning to develop
discoveries known as the R-Series and other satellite fields in
the KG-D6 block, according to BP.  Boosting output may take a couple of years, Sashi Mukundan,
BP’s  India  chief said Sept. 6.  Satellite Fields  Satellite fields in the KG-D6 block and the R-Series fields
together have the potential to produce as much as 35 million
cubic meters a day of gas, the person said. That would boost
production by 78 percent from the current level of 45 million
cubic meters a day.  Tests carried out by Reliance have shown that the gas-
bearing layers of sand in two main producing areas of the KG-D6
block are thinner than initially estimated and may require the
company and partner BP to adopt costlier drilling techniques,
the person said. To recover the additional cost the government
may need to increase the price at which the fuel can be sold,
according to the person.  Reliance sells gas to power plants and fertilizer units at
$4.2 per million British thermal units, a price set by the
government and scheduled for revision in April 2014.  Expenditure  Reliance has spent about $5.6 billion on developing the
KG-D6 block, or 64 percent of the expenditure approved by the
government, the person said. The company has told the
Directorate General of Hydrocarbons that it wants to spend the
remaining $3.2 billion to develop the R-Series and other
satellite fields in the KG-D6 block, according to the person.  The Indian government asked Reliance to drill 11 wells in
the year ending March 31, S.K. Srivastava, director general at
the country’s oil regulator, said May 2. Srivastava didn’t
answer two calls to his mobile phone today.  The decline in output may continue until work on the wells
is completed and they are connected to the main pipeline system
carrying the gas, according to a Aug. 25 statement from Calgary-
based  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) , which has a 10 percent stake in the
KG-D6 block.  The investment by BP will accelerate development and
production from Reliance’s fields in India, Ambani said on Feb.
21 when the deal was announced. Reliance may get an additional
$1.8 billion from London-based BP if the two companies discover
more oil or gas in some of the blocks covered by the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  