-- 
Republicans May Prefer Jobs Deal to Budget Trigger: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-22T00:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/republicans-may-prefer-jobs-deal-to-budget-trigger-ezra-klein.html
When he talks about the  American
Jobs Act , President  Barack Obama  employs a simple refrain: “Pass
this bill!” He used some variant of that a dozen times in his
speech announcing the legislation.  But when it came time this week for the president to talk
about his deficit-reduction  proposal , three words were notably
absent from the pitch. He never said “Pass this bill.” In part,
that’s because he’s not offering a bill; he’s submitting a
proposal to Congress’  Joint Select Committee on Deficit
Reduction . But it’s also because there is no chance that a bill
resembling Obama’s proposal will pass.  Republicans would sooner adopt a resolution honoring Karl Marx and Eugene Debs for their commitment to the working man.
Obama knows that, the Republicans know that Obama knows that,
and most of us know it, too. In a conference call with reporters
on Sunday night, a senior administration official didn’t even
attempt to pretend otherwise: “It’s his vision and not a
legislative compromise being crafted to garner some number of
votes in the House and the Senate,” he said.  So what legislation will the Joint Select Committee on
 Deficit Reduction , known as the “supercommittee,” produce? As
with anything that requires congressional action, the smart bet
is on nothing. In this case, however, “nothing” isn’t really
nothing. Because if nothing passes the supercommittee, then an
automatic sequestration process -- better known as “the trigger”
-- begins. The real goal of the supercommittee is to offer a
proposal that both Democrats and Republicans prefer to the
trigger. And that may be harder than many people realize.  The trigger itself is a product of political compromise.
Devised in the final days of the debt-ceiling debacle and rushed
into law on the eve of the government’s near-default, it was a
response to the political question that had thwarted every
previous effort to resolve the crisis: How could Congress craft
a debt deal when Republicans won’t agree to new taxes and
Democrats won’t agree to significant spending cuts without new
taxes?  Comically Progressive  The answer was an automatic trigger that begins in 2013 and
distributes its cuts in an almost comically progressive fashion.
The final compromise would slash $1.2 trillion from federal
programs over 10 years -- though because interest savings were
included in the total, it’s really a cut of $980 billion or so.
Of every $2 in cuts, $1 would come from the Pentagon. In
addition, Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries,
and nearly all programs benefiting low-income Americans, would
be exempt from cuts.  An across-the-board sequester is the crude work of a
hatchet, not a scalpel, but a lot of Democrats would prefer
crudely implemented, broad cuts that target defense and exempt
the social safety net to narrow cuts to social programs that are
handled delicately. The White House is perhaps more concerned
about the trigger than many in the Democratic base because the
defense cuts are not at all abstract to them. But they will find
it very hard to sell congressional Democrats on a compromise
struck in order to protect the Pentagon.  That formula leaves Republicans with two options for
securing a deal with the Democrats: either cut $1.5 trillion in
spending in a way both parties prefer, or agree to raise taxes.
Does either course seem likely to you?  Of course, policy considerations aren’t the only factors in
play. There is also politics. Democrats would like to strike a
deal with Republicans (and the administration in particular very
much wanted a grand bargain). They worry about looking weak on
defense if too much is cut, or weak on deficits if the public
concludes the overall reductions don’t go far enough. A month or
two ago -- about the time the debt deal was struck -- those
concerns seemed likely to dominate Democratic thinking.  Confrontational Approach  But Democrats have become increasingly disillusioned with
the politics of begging the Republicans for a deal. That’s been
the Democratic strategy since the election, and all it’s gotten
them is an angry base, a string of losses in  special elections 
and the contempt of a nation that prefers strong leaders to
ineffectual compromisers. The president’s recent speeches have
reflected his party’s more confrontational approach, including
Obama’s promise to veto any supercommittee legislation that cuts
Medicare benefits without raising taxes on the wealthy. The
closer we get to the election, and the higher the stakes become
in the news media, the harder it will be for either party to
back down.  There is, however, another lure the Republicans might
dangle before Democrats without surrendering their no-new-taxes
pledges: spending on jobs. The supercommittee could easily
decide that deficit reduction requires job growth (because it
does), and thus propose policies like infrastructure investment
and an expanded payroll-tax cut. Democrats would give up a lot
of future spending to get more government support right now for
an ailing economy. There’s even a precedent for this: It’s
exactly how the Republicans and Democrats resolved the standoff
over the expiration of the Bush tax cuts in 2010, with Democrats
continuing the tax cuts in return for Republican support for
extended jobless benefits and other policies.  The devil of any compromise is, of course, in the details.
At this point, it would be very difficult for the White House to
back a Republican-favored deficit bill even in return for
passage of part of Obama’s jobs package. But it would be even
harder for them to back a Republican-friendly deficit bill in
return for the simple satisfaction of having made  Washington 
“work.” Liberals are very unlikely to find that more attractive
than the trigger.  So if Republicans don’t want to accept substantial new
taxes (and they don’t), and if they don’t want to facilitate
huge cuts to the Pentagon (and they don’t), it might be time for
them to start thinking about what sort of jobs program they
could live with. After all, “Pass this bill!” makes for a much
more stirring applause line than “Pull that trigger!”  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  