-- 
Triathletes Outnumber Golfers in Augusta at World’s Largest Half Ironman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/triathletes-outnumber-golfers-in-augusta-at-world-s-largest-half-ironman.html
Deke Copenhaver was running for re-
election as mayor of Augusta,  Georgia , last year, when he
decided to swim and bike along the campaign trail, too.  Copenhaver, who became the first U.S. mayor to complete all
three legs of an Ironman-sponsored triathlon in his own city,
will be back at it again this year. After  finishing  the  Augusta
70.3 half Ironman  race near the back of the pack in 2010, the
mayor has a loftier time goal this year.  Copenhaver, 43, will be one of about 3,200 triathletes on
the course Sept. 25 in Augusta, a city becoming as well-known
among endurance athletes as it is among the thousands of golf
fans who attend the  Masters Tournament  in town every April. The
event is sold out, and is expected to be one of only two of the
25 half Ironman races held in the U.S. this year to achieve that,
according to Ironman spokeswoman Jessica Weidensall.  “My time wasn’t great, but on the run portion I had to go
from athlete to ambassador,” Copenhaver, who completed the race
in 6 hours, 56 minutes and 38 seconds, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s my excuse. People were yelling ‘mayor,
mayor.’ I was shaking hands with everybody. I’m going to wear a
visor this year, I think.”  Down-Current Swim  The 70.3-mile (113.1-kilometer) race consists of a  1.2-mile
swim  down the Savannah River, a  56-mile bike  ride that begins in
Augusta and continues through nearby Aiken County,  South
Carolina , and finishes with a  13.1-mile run  through the streets
of downtown Augusta. With a down-current swim, bike ride through
rolling country roads, and a two-loop run course that allows
spectators and family members to line the streets, the race has
attracted an average of 3,200 competitors since its 2009 debut.  That makes it the largest race of its kind based on
participants, according to Ironman, a subsidiary of World
Triathlon Corp., which is owned by Providence, Rhode Island-
based  Providence Equity Partners .  Greg Stivers, a senior vice president with Automatic Data
Processing Inc., the world’s largest payroll processor, in
Alpharetta, Georgia, will compete in the event for the first
time. After moving to the Atlanta area from Pleasanton,
 California , in June, he said he wasn’t sure where Augusta was on
 a map .  “I’m new to the South, so I had only known of Augusta for
golf,” Stivers, 44, said in an interview. “I didn’t know if we
were going to be riding around the Masters course or what.
That’s what’s so neat. There’s a little bit of mystique to it.”  The majority of the race takes place in downtown Augusta,
about five miles from the 70-year-old Augusta National Golf Club,
which has hosted golf’s first major tournament of the year since
1934.  Financial Windfall  While the route might come as a disappointment to any golf
fans hoping to glimpse the Masters course, it’s a boon to the
city’s downtown business district. Because many Masters’
attendees rent houses during the week or stay near the club for
the majority of the day and travel home after the final putt
falls, businesses located farther from the golf course enjoy a
bigger financial windfall during Ironman weekend.  “We probably get at least a 25 percent increase,” said
William Harrison, owner of the  Boll Weevil Café and Sweetery , a
family-owned restaurant located about two blocks from the finish
line. “We do pretty well on the weekends already, so it’s a
blessing.” Harrison declined to reveal the financial value of
the increased business.  Like many Augusta residents, Harrison, 33, has been
attending the Masters since he said he was “old enough to
appreciate it.” He said the city, which has about 200,000
residents, is still defined by the tournament, which was co-
founded by Atlanta-born Bobby Jones.  “Anybody you talk to about Augusta, that’s the first thing
that comes to mind,” Harrison said.  Estonian Triathlete  In addition to the Masters and Ironman events, Augusta,
which is also home to the  Professional Disc Golf Association  and
 National Barrel Horse Association , hosts about 40 athletic
events per year, according to the city’s convention and visitors
bureau. The city also hosted the USA Cycling national
championships in June for the first time, drawing more than
1,000 racers.  The sporting events are “huge for our economy,” Brinsley
Thigpen, chief executive officer of the  Augusta Sports Council ,
said in a telephone interview. “We love being known for the
Masters, don’t get me wrong, but it would be nice to be known
for other events as well.”  Marko Albert , a 32-year-old professional triathlete from
 Estonia , took a 10-hour flight to compete in the 2010 race. He
finished with the fastest swim time, covering 1.2 miles in 18
minutes, 52 seconds, and placed eighth overall.  “It’s a nice place,” Albert said in a telephone interview.
“The bike course was not only scenic, but if you are a strong
biker, you can make up some time. On the run, the main streets
were full of people. There was huge support.”  After finishing third in last month’s  Ironman Austria  event,
Albert will skip this year’s Augusta race as he travels to
 Hawaii  to train for next month’s  Ironman World Championship .  Copenhaver, however, won’t be watching from the comfort of
a private viewing area like some city officials. He’ll be trying
to finish in less than six hours.  “I’m a competitor,” said Copenhaver, who was a partner in
a real estate firm before becoming the full-time mayor in 2005.
“There’s no backing down.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Michael Buteau in
Atlanta at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  