-- 
Richard Zabel Said to Get Promotion to Deputy U.S. Attorney in New York

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-22T16:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/richard-zabel-said-to-get-promotion-to-deputy-u-s-attorney-in-new-york.html
Richard Zabel, a federal prosecutor
in  Manhattan , was promoted to deputy U.S. attorney for the
Southern District of New York, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Zabel served as co-head of litigation at Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP from 1999 until 2009, when he rejoined the
prosecutor’s office in Manhattan. He replaces Boyd Johnson III,
who is leaving to join the  law firm  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
& Dorr LLP, according to the firm.  A graduate of  Princeton University  and  Harvard Law School ,
Zabel worked as an assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan from
1991 to 1999, holding positions including chief of the office’s
narcotics unit. He co-wrote two reports published in 2008 and
2009 by the group Human Rights First, “In Pursuit of Justice,
Prosecuting Terrorism Cases in the Federal Courts.”  He twice won the Attorney General’s Award for Distinguished
Service for his role in the prosecutions of a violent criminal
organization known as the Latin Kings and members of the Gambino
organized crime family.  Johnson, a graduate of Hamilton College and Cornell Law
School, has been a prosecutor in the office since 1999, holding
positions including chief of the public corruption unit and head
of the international narcotics trafficking unit.  He is scheduled to start work with Washington-based Wilmer
Hale’s litigation and white-collar practices on Oct. 1.  Under the supervision of both men, prosecutors in the
office have won several insider-trading cases including the May
conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 