-- 
Fed’s ‘Operation Twist’ Will Probably Fail, Roach Tells CNBC

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-22T12:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/roach-tells-cnbc-that-fed-s-operation-twist-will-probably-fail.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s “Operation
Twist” to curb long-term borrowing costs will probably fail and
the U.S. is “on the brink” of relapsing into a recession, said
 Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS)   Asia .  “We obviously had a wrenching crisis three years ago,”
Roach said in an interview on CNBC today. “QE1 was important in
putting a floor under the financial chaos that was unfolding.
QE2 failed. Operation Twist will probably fail. QE3 will fail.”  The Fed’s efforts to spur growth have included purchases of
$2.3 trillion in securities from December 2008 through June in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing. U.S. policy makers
said yesterday they will extend average maturities of Treasuries
in its portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term debt while
selling an equal amount of shorter-term securities, dubbed
“Operation Twist” after a similar program in 1961.  “We’re certainly on the brink of a relapse, double dip,
whatever you want to call it,” Roach said, referring to the
 U.S. economy . “America is in a Japanese-like situation,” he
said, referring to a period during the 1990s when  Japan ’s
economy slipped in and out of recession and grew at an average
of about 1 percent a year.  “The unconventional tools that the Fed is trying to
convince the markets will work failed in Japan and they won’t
work in this economy either,” he said.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday maintained a pledge
made in August to hold the Fed’s benchmark interest rate near
zero through the middle of 2013 so long as unemployment stays
high and the inflation outlook is “subdued.” The target rate
has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008
and some borrowing costs were already nearing record lows before
yesterday’s action.  “What are they going to get out of Operation Twist?”
Roach said. “They’re going to take a long-term  interest rate 
which is already at record lows down a little bit more. Is that
going to make things better for balance-sheet constrained
American consumers?”  “We’ve had no demand growth for 14 quarters from the 70
percent of the U.S. economy -- the America consumer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  