-- 
Romania’s SIF4 Holders Approve Sale of BCR Stake to Erste

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-09-22T12:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/romania-s-sif4-holders-approve-sale-of-bcr-stake-to-erste-1-.html
The shareholders of SIF Muntenia
SA, a Romanian investment fund, gave the management clearance
today to continue talks on selling a minority stake in Banca
Comerciala Romana SA to  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Muntenia
Chief Executive Officer Petre Pavel Szel said.  The fund, also called SIF4, is party to an agreement in
principle by four investment funds, known as SIFs, to sell 24.1
percent of BCR to Erste for cash and shares worth a total of 435
million euros ($584 million). SIF4 won’t request a listing of
the Romanian lender on the Bucharest Stock Exchange, Szel said
in a phone interview today after the shareholders meeting.  “We received the green light from our shareholders to
continue negotiations with Erste,” Szel said. “From now on,
the management can continue the process to dispose of the BCR
stake and we hope that we can sell the first part of our stake
by December.”  The four SIFs that signed the agreement in principle are
SIF Banat-Crisana SA, SIF Transilvania SA, SIF Muntenia and SIF
Oltenia SA. Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, will
buy their shares for a total of 453.9 million lei ($141 million)
in cash. The funds will also get stakes in Erste of as much as 1
percent each through a share swap, once the transaction is
completed. That will raise Erste’s BCR stake to 93.5 percent.  Moldova Yet to Decide  SIF Moldova SA, which was left out of the accord, may also
consider selling its stake in BCR if shareholders agree, CEO
Costel Ceocea said on Sept. 15. A vote on this is scheduled for
tomorrow or Saturday.  The five SIFs together would become one of the biggest
shareholders in the Vienna-based bank, with a combined stake of
about 5 percent.  “SIF4 shareholders have mandated the board to solicit a
BCR listing only if negotiations with Erste Group Bank are not
finalized by Oct. 13,” EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s Romanian
brokerage unit wrote in a note to clients today. “In other
words, the disposal of the BCR interest received the green
light.”  When it agreed to buy a 61.9 percent stake in BCR in 2005
for 3.75 billion euros, Erste promised to list BCR’s shares
within three years, to give the SIFs an exit option. It agreed
with the funds to delay that target date to October this year
because of adverse market conditions. Earlier this year, Erste
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said he would now rather
add to the stake -- which has been raised in the meantime to
69.4 percent -- than list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  