-- 
Romney-Perry Sparring During TV Debate Shapes Republican Bid for President

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-23T05:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/romney-sharpens-attacks-on-republican-rival-perry-to-narrow-lead.html
Rick Perry  and Mitt Romney
intensified their attacks on each other during a televised
debate last night, sparring over Social Security and health care
in the escalating two-man battle dominating the Republican
presidential contest.  Perry, the Texas governor, and Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, accused the other of retreating from
controversial stances as they vied at the nine-candidate faceoff
in Florida, a state whose primary could heavily influence the
party’s nominating race.  “There’s a Rick Perry out there that’s saying, almost to
quote, that the federal government shouldn’t be in the pension
business, that it’s unconstitutional and it should be returned
to states,” Romney said. “You better find that Rick Perry and
get him to stop saying that.”  Perry, who has called Social Security a “ Ponzi scheme ,”
said Romney had wrongly accused him of wanting to dismantle the
program, when he had instead advocated offering people the
option of joining a state-operated retirement system instead of
the federal one.  “It’s not the first time that Mitt’s been wrong on some
issues before,” Perry said at the debate sponsored by  Fox News 
and Google in  Orlando , in the center of the state with the
nation’s highest concentration of senior citizens.  Romney pressed his case that Perry, in his 2010 book “Fed
Up,” called the federal creation of the Social Security system
unconstitutional.  ‘Crumbling Monument’  Perry wrote that the program was “a crumbling monument to
the failure of the New Deal,” and that it was created “at the
expense of respect for the Constitution and limited
government.”  In seeking to turn the tables on Romney, Perry charged that
his rival had flip-flopped on issues including health care,  gun
control , abortion rights and education.  “I think Americans just don’t know sometimes which  Mitt
Romney  they’re dealing with,” Perry said.  “Nice try,” Romney responded in rejecting that attack. He
continued: “There are a lot of reasons not to elect me, a lot
of reasons not to elect other people on this stage. But one
reason to elect me is I know what I stand for.”  The heated exchanges between Romney and Perry underscored
the degree to which attention is increasingly focused on them in
the crowded nomination contest.  ‘Bludgeon’ One Another  “When all is said and done, the two guys standing in the
middle here, Romney and Perry, aren’t going to be around because
they’re going to bludgeon each other to death,” former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. quipped when asked to name which of
his opponents he would select as vice president.  Romney -- the comfortable, albeit vulnerable, frontrunner
when he embarked earlier this year on his second presidential
run -- now is seeking to make up ground against Perry, who has
catapulted to the lead since entering the race last month.
Romney is working to reshape his campaign into a more aggressive
effort that can compete with Perry, whose folksy style contrasts
with Romney’s more buttoned-down manner.  Perry, too, is facing challenges. While polls indicate he
is the emerging favorite of core Republican voters who hold sway
in the primary, he is competing with Romney for the support of
the independent and swing voters who will influence the general
election. At the same time, he is facing criticism and pressure
from other fiscally and socially conservative candidates on
several fronts, including immigration policy.  ‘Soft’ on Immigration  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  called Perry
“soft” on illegal immigration because he has called it
impractical to build a fence across the entire U.S. border with
 Mexico  and supported allowing undocumented immigrants to attend
 Texas  universities at in-state tuition rates.  “He’s very weak on this issue of American sovereignty and
protecting our borders and not being a magnet for illegal
immigration,” Santorum said.  Defending himself on the tuition issue, Perry said, “If
you say that we should not educate children who have come into
our state for no other reason than they’ve been brought there by
no fault of their own, I don’t think you have a heart.”  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a favorite of
Tea Party activists who has faded in the polls since Perry
entered the race, called it “madness” to allow any taxpayer-
subsidized benefits for illegal immigrants, a clear reference to
the in-state tuition issue.  She also declared: “I would build a fence on America’s
southern border -- on every mile, on every yard, on every foot,
on every inch of the southern border.”  Straw Poll  The debate is part of a three-day Republican gathering in
 Florida  -- often a swing state in presidential general elections
-- that will culminate in a non-binding straw poll on Sept. 24.  Romney spent much of the night rejecting Perry’s
characterizations of him as not sufficiently committed to
Republican principles. Asked at one point what he thought of
Perry’s description of him as “Obama-lite,” Romney tersely
responded, “I don’t think he knows what he’s talking about.”  On education, Perry criticized Romney for supporting
President Barack Obama’s “Race to the Top” education program
that rewards state school systems for reaching certain goals.  “That is an important difference,” Perry said. “That is
not conservative.”  ‘Turn Off the Lights’  Bachmann said she would “take the entire federal education
law, repeal it. Then I would go over to the Department of
Education; I’d turn off the lights; I would lock the door, and I
would send all the money back to the states and localities.”  Perry charged that Romney had backtracked on the health-
care plan he enacted in  Massachusetts , which -- like the one
Obama signed into law last year -- mandated that everyone have
health insurance.  In the first edition of a book by Romney, Perry said, the
former governor touted his health-care plan as “exactly what
the American people needed to have -- that Romneycare.” In a
later edition, Perry said, “You took that line out, so speaking
of not getting it straight in your book, sir, that would be a
big one for you.”  Romney and Perry each pitched themselves as the candidate
best qualified to be president and to draw distinctions with
Obama.  “I happen to believe that to create jobs, it helps to have
had a job, and I have,” Romney said, referring to his
background as the onetime chief executive of the investment firm
Bain Capital LLC.  Market Plunge  The central theme of Romney’s candidacy is that his
business experience gives him the credentials to resuscitate the
sluggish  U.S. economy . The debate took place on a day that
stocks tumbled and Treasury 10-year yields dropped to a record
amid concern central banks are running out of tools to prevent
another recession. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 391.01,
or 3.5 percent, to 10,733.83. Ten-year Treasury yields fell as
low as 1.6961 percent, the lowest since Federal Reserve figures
began in 1953.  Perry’s main argument is that his record of creating jobs
in Texas makes him the best person to revive the slumping U.S.
economy.  “If it will work in the state of Texas, it will work in
 Washington , D.C.,” Perry said. “People understand that the
state of Texas during the last decade -- something special
happened there.”  The other candidates on the debate stage were
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , businessman  Herman Cain  and former New Mexico Governor
Gary Johnson.  Libertarian Principles  Paul and Johnson stressed their commitments to libertarian
principles that call for significantly diminishing the reach of
the federal government. And Johnson, making his second
appearance in the six Republican debates held so far this year,
delivered perhaps the night’s best-received quip in blasting
Obama’s economic record.  “My next door neighbor’s two dogs have created more
shovel-ready jobs than this current administration,” he said,
eliciting a roar of laughter from the audience and chuckles from
the other candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story: Julie Hirschfeld Davis
in Orlando, Florida at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  