-- 
Rupee Plunges Most in 15 Years as Investors Seek Safe Haven in U.S. Dollar

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-22T13:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/rupee-drops-to-two-year-low-as-investors-seek-safety-in-dollar.html
India ’s rupee plunged the most in
more than 15 years as investors sold emerging-market assets in
favor of the dollar’s relative safety on concern the global
economy is weakening.  The currency sank to a 28-month low and the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index dropped 4.1 percent after the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday there are “significant downside risks”
to the  U.S. economy . The Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against six major trading partners, rose for a second
day. The  Reserve Bank  of India will intervene in the  currency
market  to curb excessive swings in the rupee, though it isn’t
doing so at the moment, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told
reporters yesterday in  New York .  “ Risk aversion  has just got stronger after yesterday’s Fed
news,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-based currency trader
at Development Credit Bank Ltd. “The Sensex plunged and the
euro seems to be tanking. Overall, a very gloomy picture and
there’s no saying where we go from here.”  The rupee weakened 2.5 percent to 49.5425 per dollar at the
5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
the biggest drop since Feb. 5, 1996. It touched 49.5475 earlier,
the lowest level since May 15, 2009, and lost 9.8 percent this
quarter, the worst performance among the 10 most-traded Asian
currencies.  Implied volatility on one-month, dollar-rupee options
touched 13.5 percent today, the highest level since June 2010,
versus 11 percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Overseas funds withdrew a net $2.3 billion from Indian stocks in
August, the most since October 2008, according to exchange data.  Asia Drops  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, fell 1.45
percent today to 114.2, the lowest level this year.  “The extent to which India would intervene depends on
whether the rupee slides further and how currencies are doing
regionally,” said Nick Verdi, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Barclays Capital . “If the rest of the region
continues to be sold off, there’s little incentive for the
Indian authorities to step in independently.”  The rupee may rebound to 47 per dollar at the end of this
year, Verdi predicts.  The RBI didn’t buy or sell foreign currencies in the eight
months through July after purchasing a net $870 million in
November 2010, according to data on the central bank’s website.
Central banks intervene by buying or selling their currencies to
influence exchange rates.  The monetary authority sold dollars after the rupee fell
below 48 against the greenback on Sept. 14 for the first time in
two years, a trader at a state-owned bank said that day,
declining to be identified as he isn’t authorized to speak to
the media.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.21
per dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.04 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  