-- 
Russia Says Rescue of Europe by Joint BRICS Action ‘Impossible’

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-22T21:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/russia-says-rescue-of-europe-by-joint-brics-action-impossible-.html
The world’s largest emerging
economies will not act as a bloc to ease  Europe ’s financial
crisis, Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said.  “It’s impossible, I’m certain of that,” Storchak told
reporters today in Washington. “If the BRICS are going to act
to overcome the euro zone’s financial problems, then it will be
based on the possibilities presented by working through the
 International Monetary Fund .”  Finance ministry and central bank officials from  Brazil ,
Russia,  India ,  China  and  South Africa  met before this week’s IMF
annual meeting to discuss coordinating policy as Europe reels
from a sovereign debt crisis and growth slows in the U.S. There
is a “high” danger that Greece will not fulfill all of its
debt obligations, Storchak said.  “But whether that means creditors, Greek debt holders,
will declare them in default is still a question,” he said.
“They might not.”  Declaring  Greece  in default with the idea of triggering
covenants in the country’s debt would be a serious step for
creditors, he said. “That would mean, at a minimum, a haircut
and then maybe even cutting off part of the body.”  Neither Brazil nor other members of BRIC, which began
including South Africa in its meetings earlier this year,
proposed a joint effort to help Europe going into today’s
meeting, Storchak said. Russia would not want to provide
individual help to a country like Greece without seeing a debt
stability analysis like those required of Paris Club borrowers,
Storchak said.  Buying Bonds  Different government procedures among the countries make
joint action such as a loan or buying bonds impossible, Storchak
said.  “Sovereigns aren’t banks, they aren’t able to provide a
syndicated loan,” he said. “Methodologically, that would be a
fairly difficult thing to do.”  Working through the IMF remains the “most practical and
pragmatic path,” he said.  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Sept. 19 that countries
with “major reserves” might consider options to help ease
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  The countries said in a statement after their meeting that
they would provide support “if necessary” through the IMF or
other global financial bodies. The BRICS are also “concerned
with the slow pace of quota and governance reforms in the IMF.”  With work lagging on implementing changes agreed in 2010,
BRICS are more likely to contribute to the new agreement on
borrowing as a way to help through the IMF than trying to
further boost their sway by raising their shareholding, Storchak
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  Washington  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  