-- 
Russian Natural-Gas Dispute With Ukraine Threatens New Cutoff to Europe

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-09-22T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/russian-gas-dispute-with-ukraine-threatens-new-cutoff-to-europe.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  visits Moscow tomorrow to spar over natural gas
contracts as the two former Soviet states risk their third gas
war in six years and another disruption to Europe’s supplies.  Yanukovych, who will meet his Russian counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , is angering Russia
with ambitions to move his country of 46 million into the
European Union, while cutting dependence on imports of Russian
gas, 80 percent of which is shipped via Ukraine to the EU.  A pricing dispute between Russia and Ukraine disrupted
deliveries to at least 20 countries for two weeks amid freezing
temperatures in January 2009. It also drove up next-month gas
prices in the U.K.,  Europe ’s biggest market, as much as 15
percent and prompted Slovakia’s government to consider a restart
of Soviet-era nuclear reactors which it shut after joining the
EU in 2004. A new dispute would come as economies in the region
slow because of the effects of a sovereign-debt crisis.  “It’s shaping up as having all the potential for a
conflict,” Julian Lee, senior energy analyst at  Centre for
Global Energy Studies , said Sept. 21 by phone from  London . If
supplies to the EU were cut, “it would be very damaging” to
European confidence in Russia’s reliability as a gas supplier.  Russia, whose once close ties to Yanukovych have soured,
insists that  Ukraine  must stick to a 10-year agreement signed in
2009. It has said that a supply reduction may be granted if
Ukraine, which plans to import less gas from Jan. 1, drops its
objections to joining a Russian-led customs union.  Cutting Costs  Ukraine is seeking to cut costs and to decrease by two-
thirds purchases of the fuel in a three-year move starting from
2012. Russian state-gas monopoly OAO Gazprom says it will
continue to charge Ukraine the full price for contracted
deliveries.  A renewed cutoff would be the third since 2006 and may
encourage the EU, which relies on Russia for a quarter of its
gas needs, to accelerate plans to secure alternative gas
supplies from the Caspian via the proposed Nabucco pipeline,
said Lee. It would also make EU support for the Russian-led
South Stream pipeline to Europe via the  Black Sea  less likely,
he said.  “If there was any suspicion that Russia was manipulating
the situation to make a conflict worse than it needed to be,
then it would seriously undermine EU comfort with dependence on
Russian gas,” Lee said.  ‘Unfair and Enslaving’  Ukraine’s Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said Sept. 20 he
“hopes” that the talks in Moscow will “start a review of the
2009 gas contract,” which his country considers “unfair and
enslaving.”  The contract was signed by former Premier  Yulia Tymoshenko ,
who’s in jail awaiting trial on charges including abuse of power
by agreeing to pay too much for Russian gas. It requires Ukraine
to buy no less than 33 billion cubic meters of gas each year.  The eastern European country, which relies on  Russia  for
more than 60 percent of its gas needs, is seeking to reduce
imports to 12.5 billion cubic meters by 2015 from 40 billion
cubic meters this year. It also wants to cut the price from next
year’s expected level of $415 per cubic meter to $230.  Increased Leverage  Russia’s leverage in the talks was bolstered earlier this
month when Gazprom began pumping gas through the $10 billion
subsea  Nord Stream  pipeline, which bypasses Ukraine by running
under the  Baltic Sea . The project will be able to carry enough
supplies for 26 million European homes when it’s fully up and
running next year and is the first direct link between western
Europe and Russia.  The  International Monetary Fund  postponed a visit to
Ukraine planned for early September to late October citing the
need for stronger government policies. The Washington-based
IMF’s second review of a $15.6 billion loan with Ukraine has
been delayed since March since the Cabinet failed to increase
domestic fees for natural gas.  Yanukovych, who replaced his Western-backed rival,  Viktor Yushchenko  in 2010, is asserting Ukraine’s independence from its
neighbor by rejecting an offer to hand over control of Ukrainian
state gas company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy in return for a new
contract.  He’s also refusing to join a customs union with Russia,
Kazakhstan and Belarus, in return for subsidized  gas prices , as
this would jeopardize his efforts to negotiate a free-trade
accord with the  27-nation EU  as a first step toward membership.  ‘Absolutely Unrealistic’  Putin on Sept. 16 said it was “absolutely unrealistic”
for Ukraine to seek EU membership because of the monetary
union’s debt crisis. It will benefit more from regional
integration with Russia than from joining the bloc, Putin said
at an investment forum in the Black Sea resort of Sochi.  The EU, while not willing to accept Ukrainian membership,
wants to resist Russian influence in the former  Soviet Union  and
has made it clear that Ukraine has to keep out of the Russian-
led bloc,  Alexander Rahr , an analyst at the Berlin-based German
Council on Foreign Relations, said by phone on Sept. 21.  Yanukovych, who was a Russian-backed candidate against
Yushchenko in 2004, is refusing to back down with Russia and has
threatened to sue Gazprom in international court should talks
over gas supplies fail.  “The legal battle is likely to be drawn out, which will
poison bilateral relations between Kiev and Moscow,” said Lilit
Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at  IHS Global Insight .
“Ironically, Yanukovych, who prior to his election was thought
to be the Kremlin’s man, faced with resurgent Russian foreign
policy toward Ukraine, could be the leader who brings Ukraine
closer to the EU than the previous reformist leaders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  