-- 
SABMiller Drops Most in a Month on Concern Over Foster’s Price

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-22T10:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sabmiller-drops-most-in-a-month-on-concern-over-foster-s-price.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  fell the most in a
month in  London  trading as European stock markets slumped and
analysts said the maker of Peroni and Grolsch beer may be paying
a high price for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)   The shares fell as much as 7.1 percent, the steepest
intraday drop since Aug. 18. They were down 6.9 percent at
2,033.5 pence as of 11:57 a.m. as the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  tumbled 4.8 percent.  Foster’s is a “pricey” acquisition,  Trevor Stirling , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said in a note.
SABMiller’s A$9.9 billion ($9.7 billion) offer values the
Australian brewer at 13 times its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, more than the 12.4 times that
InBev NV paid for Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008, though with
“less upside and more downside risk,” he wrote.  Stirling said he’s “cautious” on the return on invested
capital that SABMiller will be able to derive from buying
Melbourne-based Foster’s. There is also “a lot of downside
risks” to sales assumptions for Foster’s, the analyst wrote.  Foster’s agreed yesterday to be bought for A$5.10 a share
in cash, ending a three-month pursuit by SABMiller. The shares
rose 37 cents, or 7.6 percent, to A$5.26 in Sydney today.  Foster’s said the total agreed offer is worth A$5.5325 a
share to investors, including a payment of 30 cents a share as
part of a capital return and a 13.25-cent final dividend as a
result of the talks.  Tax Ruling  “The market is treating this as a bid worth A$5.40 but
there is a discount being taken as it’s going to take a few
months to get the money,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage $5.4
billion at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “There is
hardly any uncertainty about this deal not being done.”  The 30-cent payment is conditional on  Australia ’s tax
office ruling it as a capital return to investors and not a
dividend. If that can’t be achieved, SABMiller will increase its
bid to A$5.40 in cash, according to Foster’s.  The purchase is London-based SABMiller’s biggest and will
boost earnings per share in the first full year of ownership,
the company said yesterday.  “This represents a full price and is a very favorable
outcome for Foster’s shareholders,” Andy Bowley, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  