-- 
Sahara Plans $300 Million Steel Mill in Mali to Serve Region

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-22T15:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sahara-plans-300-million-steel-mill-in-mali-to-serve-region.html
Sahara Mining SA , an iron ore miner
with operations in Mali, plans to build a $300 million steel
mill near Tienfala in the southwest of the country to help close
a supply gap in West Africa.  Construction of the mill, with an initial capacity of
300,000 metric tons a year, will start in October and it should
be operational within 18 months, founder Sandeep Garg said by
telephone from Mali. Sahara is planning to expand capacity to 1
million tons a year within five years and expects investment to
reach $1 billion, he said.  African steel consumption of finished products totaled 25.6
million tons last year, of which  Egypt  and South  Africa  used
13.6 million tons. That compares with crude steel production of
17.2 million tons, according to statistics from the  World Steel
Association .  “Except for a handful of small mills in  Nigeria , there are
no steel producers in West Africa,” Mohamed Kharva, an analyst
at Nedcor Securities, said from Cape Town. “If this project can
come to fruition, it will be a step in the right direction for
Africa to industrialize.”  The mill, which will produce long products for the West
African market, is partly financed by a group of local banks in
Mali, Garg said.  “Steel production in Africa looks unrepresentative of the
size of the market,” Jason Kaplan, research manager at Metal
Bulletin Research in  London , said by e-mail. “The size of the
population and construction activity in sub-Saharan Africa means
that any fresh, domestic rebar production would find a ready
market.”  Rebar is a long product used in construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  