-- 
Sanofi’s Multaq Use Should Be Restricted, EU Regulator Says

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-22T15:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sanofi-s-multaq-use-should-be-restricted-eu-drug-regulator-says.html
The use of Sanofi’s Multaq heart-
rhythm treatment should be restricted because of an increased
risk of cardiovascular, liver and lung injuries with the drug,
the European Medicines Agency said.  The drug should only be prescribed to patients with a
persistent, paroxysmal irregular heartbeat, and then only after
alternative treatments have been tried, the London-based agency
said today in a  statement  on its website.  The decision will wipe out most use of the drug, said
Vincent Meunier, an analyst for Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.
Multaq, approved by regulators in 2009, treats a non-permanent
form of  atrial fibrillation , a rapid and irregular beating in
the heart’s upper chambers. Multaq had sales of 172 million
euros ($231.7 million) last year. Analysts reduced their
estimates for the medicine after the agency began reviewing the
drug’s safety.  “Because the drug will be restricted there will be a
minimal amount of sales,” Meunier said in a telephone
interview. “The drug is pretty much dead.”  The agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
began examining the drug in January following reports of severe
liver injury in patients who took it.  `Significant' Opinion  “The CHMP opinion is significant as it ensures
availability of an important treatment option for paroxysmal and
persistent atrial fibrillation, a growing public health concern
associated with life-threatening consequences,” Sanofi Chief
Medical Officer Jean-Pierre Lehner said in a statement.  The drug will have sales of 642 million euros in 2016,
according to the average forecast from four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That prediction has dropped by 558.5 million euros in
the past three months.  Patients taking Multaq should review their treatment at
their next scheduled doctor’s appointment, the EMA said.  “The committee concluded that there was an increased risk
of Multaq causing injury to the liver as well as the lungs when
used in accordance with the currently approved prescribing
information,” the agency said in today’s statement.  Extended Review  The EU review was extended after Paris-based Sanofi said
July 7 that it stopped a study of Multaq in patients with a
permanent form of atrial fibrillation because it significantly
raised the risk of heart attack, stroke and death from
cardiovascular disease.  The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  said Jan. 14 Multaq
had been tied to  acute liver failure requiring a transplant  in
two women of about 70 years of age. Sanofi said the same day
Multaq had been linked to liver-function test abnormalities and
“hepato-cellular injury,” including two cases of acute liver
failure.  Dronedarone, the chemical name for Multaq, was designed to
be a safer alternative to amiodarone, a generic medicine with
serious liver and lung risks that is only approved for life-
threatening irregular beating in the heart’s lower chambers.  The treatment won U.S. clearance in July 2009, after being
rejected by the FDA three years earlier.  The French National Authority for Health, reversing a
decision made one year earlier, said June 24 Multaq could lose
reimbursement in  France  after the country’s regulator decided it
offers patients an “insufficient medical benefit.” In 2010,
the same authority had said Multaq was a “useful additional
treatment” for erratic heartbeat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  