-- 
Sany Proceeds With Roadshow After $3.3 Billion Hong Kong Stock Sale Delay

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T11:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sany-heavy-said-to-postpone-3-3-billion-hong-kong-stock-sale-after-rout.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co., the
construction-equipment maker run by  China ’s richest man, is
pushing ahead with an investor roadshow after delaying its $3.3
billion Hong Kong stock sale.  “We aim to grasp an opportunity when the market turns
relatively favorable,” Tang Xiuguo, president of parent Sany
Group Co., said today in a phone interview. The company, based
in Changsha,  Hunan province , intends to complete the roadshow in
the U.S. and  Europe  by the end of the month, he said.  Sany delayed the sale pricing, previously set for Sept. 26
because of “short-term uncertainties,” Tang said. XCMG
Construction Machinery Co., China’s biggest crane maker, also
plans to cut the size of its Hong Kong share sale as the city’s
benchmark index heads for its biggest monthly drop in almost
three years amid European debt concerns and slowing U.S. growth.  “Investors aren’t willing to subscribe for new shares
aggressively as they expect the market will continue falling,”
said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion.
“There’s a mismatch in price expectations between investors and
issuing companies, which is unlikely to be solved this year.”  Offer Plan  Sany, headed by Chairman Liang Wengen, had planned to offer
1.34 billion shares at HK$16.13 to HK$19.38 apiece, according to
a term sheet sent to investors. It was seeking funds to help
expand production as it begins challenging Caterpillar Inc. and
Komatsu Ltd. in overseas markets.  The share-sale delay won’t affect Sany’s expansion plans,
including construction of a U.S. plant that’s due to open this
year, as the company has enough cashflow to finance operations
Tang said.  “If the IPO goes through successfully, we may launch new
projects in the U.S.,” he said. Still, the company is “in no
rush” to complete the share sale, he said.  Sany, China’s biggest maker of concrete machinery, fell 1
percent to 15.13 yuan at the 3 p.m. close in  Shanghai . The stock
has gained 5 percent this year while the Shanghai Composite
Index has dropped 13 percent. Sany doubled first-half net income
to 5.9 billion yuan ($923 million).  Sany’s delay comes after a stock-market sell-off that has
caused investors to lose money on 44 out of 51 Hong Kong initial
public offerings this year, according to Bloomberg data.
Shoemaker Hongguo International Holdings Ltd. tumbled 15 percent
today on its trading debut.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has dropped 14 percent this month. The
Bloomberg Hong Kong IPO Index, which measures the first-year
performance of new stocks, has fallen 27 percent this year.  XCMG Construction  XCMG Construction plans to pare the size of its Hong Kong
offering to 15 percent of outstanding shares, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. The sale has already been
delayed.  Xiao Nan Guo Restaurants Holding Ltd. scrapped a HK$581
million ($75 million) IPO, according to a Sept. 21 filing. China
Everbright Bank Co. pulled a $6 billion offering in August,
having considered cutting the size of the sale in half as stocks
dropped.  Companies have raised $40 billion in Hong Kong share sales
this year, led by China Construction Bank Corp.’s $8.3 billion
offering last month. The tally is about the same as in the year-
earlier period.  Sany’s Liang topped Forbes  Asia ’s 2011 China rich list with
an estimated wealth of $9.3 billion. The company’s three other
founders, including Tang, are also billionaires, according to
the magazine.  Sany is set to open a factory this year in Peachtree City,
 Georgia . It also has overseas facilities in  Germany ,  India  and
 Brazil , according to its  website . The company, which also makes
cranes,  wind turbines  and port equipment, employs more than
60,000 people, it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  