-- 
Sarkozy Told Obama China’s Yuan Should Be in Special Drawing Rights Basket

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-22T04:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sarkozy-told-obama-china-s-yuan-should-be-in-special-drawing-rights-basket.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
told President  Barack Obama  that the yuan should be included in
the International Monetary Fund’s Special Drawing Rights system,
a French presidential official said.  Moving toward including the yuan in the SDR basket has been
a goal of Sarkozy’s this year as France seeks to shape the
international financial system during its one-year leadership of
the Group of 20 major world economies. Including the yuan in the
SDR, a unit of account derived from the value of the dollar,
yen, pound and euro, would further integrate the Chinese
currency into world markets.  The official, speaking to reporters in  New York  after
Sarkozy met Obama, said France would push for the yuan’s
inclusion in exchange for increased consumption and trade from
 China  in order to stimulate the global economy. The official
spoke on condition of anonymity in line with government rules.  The official didn’t say if a timetable for the yuan’s
inclusion in the SDR was discussed. The Special Drawing Rights
basket is reviewed every five years by the IMF’s executive
board, and the most recent changes took effect in January.  Sarkozy proposed at a one-day seminar in Nanjing in March
that the yuan should be included in the SDR. European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said then that the idea was
“worth discussing.” U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner at the same meeting said that “flexible exchange rate
systems” and free capital flows were prerequisites for
inclusion into the basket. China has neither.  French Push  France has continued to push the issue. Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  last month told reporters in Beijing that a
working group had been set up to address issues related to the
yuan’s eventual inclusion in the SDR basket.  What isn’t clear is whether China wants to be included.
Last month Chinese central bank Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said the
yuan shouldn’t rush to join the IMF’s currency basket, according
to a commentary he wrote in the Caixin Century magazine. Still,
his boss, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan,
floated the idea in 2009 of a new international reserve currency
based on the SDR to replace the  U.S. dollar .  Shen Jianguang, chief economist for greater China at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , who has worked at the IMF and
the  European Central Bank , said the push to include the yuan in
the SDR basket is “a French idea” that is “meaningless for
China” because the yuan needs to be convertible first.  “China wants to do it but do it at their own pace which
will minimize financial turmoil,” he said.  Shen said Sarkozy could curry more favor with China by
pushing  Europe  to give the Asian nation market-economy status,
something Premier Wen Jiabao asked for last week in a speech
addressing increasing Chinese investment in Europe.  “There is nothing for free,” Shen said.  The yuan slipped 0.1 percent to 6.3907 to the dollar at
12:53 p.m. today in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  