-- 
Satellite to Fall in Biggest Space Crash Since ’79

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-22T16:52:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/satellite-may-fall-to-earth-in-biggest-uncontrolled-space-crash-since-79.html
A five-metric-ton dead research
satellite will crash into Earth tomorrow, the largest such
object to make an uncontrolled landing since 1979,  NASA  said.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said the
satellite, which has a  1-in-3,200  chance of injuring or killing
a person on landing, won’t hit  North America . It said it was too
early to “predict the time and location of re-entry with any
more certainty,” in a  release  today.  NASA expects 26 “potentially hazardous” objects from the
Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite to survive, with a total
weight of 532 kilograms (1,172 pounds), spread over an area 500
miles long (804 kilometers). The rest will be destroyed as the
satellite passes through the atmosphere.  The risk of injury is “vanishingly small,” said Steve Cole, a spokesman for NASA.  “The great majority burns up and never poses any harm,”
he said in a telephone interview from  Washington . The odds of it
hitting any individual are “one in several trillion.”  Space objects of about 4 metric tons fall to Earth about
once a year, said Cole. There have never been confirmed reports
of serious injury.  The last time larger NASA satellites made uncontrolled
crashes was 1979, when  Skylab , a space station that weighed 75
metric tons, and Pegasus 2, a satellite that weighed 10.5 metric
tons, came down, said Cole.  Look Up!  Skylab hit the earth on July 11, 1979, along the
southeastern Indian Ocean and a sparsely populated section of
Western Australia, causing no major damage,  according  to NASA.  In the days leading up to its crash, countries including
 South Africa ,  Switzerland , Belgium and  Turkey  made preparations
in case of debris, according to contemporaneous reports from the
 Associated Press . A Grand Rapids, Michigan, newscaster sued NASA
in an attempt to force the agency to destroy it before it fell.  The Space Shuttle Discovery released UARS, the first to
measure multiple chemicals in the atmosphere, including chlorine
monoxide, which destroys ozone, and methane. Initially designed
to operate for  three  years, it was decommissioned in December
2005, with six of its 10 instruments still functioning, after
maneuvering into a lower orbit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 