-- 
HSBC to Sell Korean Branches on Restructuring, MoneyToday Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-09-22T10:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hsbc-to-sell-korean-branches-on-restructuring-moneytoday-says.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  plans to sell its
retail banking operations in  South Korea  as part of the
company’s worldwide restructuring,  MoneyToday  reported, citing
people it didn’t identify.  The London-based lender aims to sell its entire 11 branches
in South Korea, leaving only investment and corporate banking
businesses in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy, the Korean-language
internet newswire reported today, without saying how much the
assets may be worth. Jessica Lennon, a spokeswoman for HSBC in
 Hong Kong , declined to comment on the report by phone.  HSBC, which plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs by the end of
2013, said last month that it is in talks to sell its U.S.
credit card and retail services. Foreign financial firms
operating in South Korea have faced setbacks recently, with
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s local unit closing branches following a
worker strike, and Lone Star Funds’ planned sale of  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940)  postponed because of legal action.  HSBC’s South Korean business posted net income of 293.5
billion won ($245 million) last year, with 24.4 trillion won in
consolidated assets, according to data on its  website . It
employed about 840 staff in Korea as of Dec. 31, the data show.  The British bank abandoned a $6 billion deal in 2008 to buy
Korea Exchange Bank from Dallas-based Lone Star after failing to
persuade the U.S. fund to cut the price while regulators held
the deal in limbo, citing legal disputes involving Lone Star.  The same legal issues are now holding up Lone Star’s
attempt to sell KEB to Hana Financial Group Inc. Regulators have
delayed approval of the transaction until the end of a court
case against Lone Star and its former local unit head on stock
manipulation charges. Lone Star has denied wrongdoing.  Standard Chartered ’s South Korean banking unit suspended 43
branches in July as its employees went on strike over the
company’s plan to base pay on performance. It had reopened 14
branches as of Sept. 19, the company said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  