-- 
Scene Last Night: Krawcheck, Deborah Voigt, Lagarde’s Nietzsche

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-22T15:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/scene-last-night-gary-parr-flowers-voigt-s-salome-lagarde-s-nietzsche.html
Just as the  New York Philharmonic 
Opening Night Gala was getting under way, Gary Parr, vice
chairman at Lazard Ltd. and chairman of the New York
Philharmonic, estimated that his conversations would be 98
percent about music and 2 percent about markets.  By dessert time, under a tent on the Lincoln Center campus,
Parr had revised his figures (“92 percent music, 8 percent bank
crisis,” he said).  He was still an outlier.  “I’d say 37 percent music, 63 percent markets,” said
Philharmonic board member J. Christopher Flowers, founder of JC
Flowers & Co. “Where’s Wagner when we need him? He’d get the
eurozone whipped into shape.”  The opening-night program included lots of Wagner, the
composer who invested so much in Rhine gold, and the last scene
from  Richard Strauss ’s statement on prophets and loss of head,
“Salome.”  Deborah Voigt provoked ovations after blasting confidently
as the teenage freak who slobbers loudly over the severed head.  Alan Gilbert , the N.Y. Phil’s music chief, led a rousing
overture to “Tannhauser,” a grand opera about a minstrel down
on his luck.  “It was uplifting,” said  Sallie Krawcheck  at the end of
the concert, looking relaxed and happy a few weeks after she
resigned from Bank of America following a management shakeup.  The gala raised $2.6 million, though reality kept
intruding.  “Every meeting tonight, the first question is: How is
 Europe ?” said Gunter Dunkel, chairman of the managing board of
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale.  “I say it has a 50/50 chance, but not more,” Dunkel said.
“It depends on courageous political leadership. We all know what
needs to be done, but they are tough decisions. They need to be
explained to the electorate. The choices are between bad and
worse.”  Christine Lagarde   At the Plaza Hotel, market talk was center stage as the
Atlantic Council held its Global Citizens Award Dinner. The
council, formed in 1961, works to strengthen the transatlantic
relationship through public-policy discussions and research.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine
Lagarde received one of the council’s awards.  “When I look at the advanced economies going through
difficult times, I think of two different philosophers,”
Lagarde said.  “One is Schopenhauer, who said ‘Life is tough, and every
day makes it worse,’” she said.  Unhappy Camper  She prefers the outlook of Nietzsche:  “He is not necessarily a happy camper, but happier in his
conclusions. He said, ‘What does not destroy us, strengthens
us.’”  Good thing there was a little music to lighten the mood.
Joe Dassin’s upbeat “Aux  Champs Elysees ” played as Lagarde
approached the stage, a fanciful and welcome flourish. After her
remarks, pianist Natasha Paremski played Chopin and
Rachmaninoff.  The 320 guests, who dined on filet mignon -- also served at
the Philharmonic gala -- included: Adrienne Arsht, chairman of
the Adrienne Arsht Center Foundation; Victor Chu, chairman of
First Eastern Investment Group; and  Muhtar Kent , chairman and
CEO of Coca-Cola Co. All were dinner chairmen as well.  The goody bag included a copy of “Berlin 1961” by the
Atlantic Council’s president and chief executive, Frederick
Kempe.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 