-- 
SEC’s Schapiro Grilled by Lawmakers Over Ethics ‘Breakdown’

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-22T23:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/schapiro-grilled-by-lawmakers-over-ethics-breakdown-at-sec.html
Lawmakers grilled U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro over what they
called a breakdown in ethics that allowed the agency’s former
top lawyer to work on policy related to the Bernard Madoff fraud
after he inherited money from the  Ponzi scheme .  “This is simply unacceptable,” Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, told Schapiro. “I continue to
have grave concerns and serious questions about the procedural
breakdown in the SEC’s ethics process.”  Today’s hearing in  Washington  was called by members of the
House Financial Services and Oversight and Government Reform
committees to highlight a 119-page report issued earlier this
week by the SEC’s inspector general. The report concluded that
the agency’s former general counsel,  David Becker , may have
violated criminal law by taking a lead role in deciding how
Madoff investors should be compensated for their losses.  Becker, who sought and received clearance from the SEC’s
ethics counsel to work on the matter, told lawmakers that he
“did precisely what I was supposed to do.”  He said the dispute has taken a toll on him and that he’s
“extremely depressed and very sad that this has been a dreadful
experience for my friend  Mary Schapiro  and the SEC, as well.”  The report comes as the SEC has been trying to restore its
reputation after acknowledging that it missed opportunities to
uncover Madoff’s decades-long fraud years before it unraveled in
2008. Both Republicans and Democrats at the hearing said the
watchdog’s findings show that more fixes are needed at the
agency.  ‘Two Strikes’  “We are deeply concerned that we’ve now had two strikes on
 Bernie Madoff ,” said Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican and chairman of the oversight committee. “How are we
going to make sure we don’t have a third?”  Schapiro told the lawmakers that she is overhauling the
agency’s procedures for vetting conflicts of interest, and she
took part of the blame for the firestorm over Becker’s work.  “I need to be acutely sensitive to any issue that could
potentially interfere with the commission’s ability to fulfill
its mission with the full confidence of the investing public,”
she said.  ‘Fictitious’ Profits  Inspector General H. David Kotz began his probe in March
after Becker and his brothers were sued by the court-appointed
trustee in the Madoff bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in
what the trustee termed fictitious profits from the inherited
account.  When Becker joined the agency in 2009, he told Schapiro and
William Lenox, then the agency’s ethics counsel, about his
family’s Madoff investment, which had been liquidated after his
mother’s death. Lenox told Becker in May 2009 that he didn’t
have a financial conflict of interest and could work on the
policy for compensating the victims.  Becker left the SEC in February to return to his private
 law firm .  Today, Becker said that he thinks the trustee has
overstated the profits that he got from the account. After
paying estate taxes and dividing the inheritance, Becker said he
received about $10,000 to $15,000.  Several Democrats at the hearing said they were less
concerned about Becker’s case than what it said more broadly
about the SEC ethics process. They also told Becker they were
surprised he would testify with the threat of a Justice
Department investigation hanging over his head.  “My objective is to get the truth out. It’s as simple as
that,” Becker said. “I’ve got nothing to hide.”  Becker took issue with Kotz’s decision to send his case to
the  Justice Department , saying the inspector general uses
criminal referrals to “get lots of publicity” for his
investigations.  “I’ve seen Inspector Kotz do this before,” Becker said,
adding that a number of the watchdog’s previous referrals
“were laughable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  