-- 
Scottish & Southern Reconsiders Plans to Build U.K. Reactors

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-09-22T11:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/scottish-southern-reconsiders-plans-for-u-k-nuclear-reactors.html
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE)  may
drop out of an alliance with GDF Suez SA and Iberdrola SA to
build nuclear reactors in northern  England  as it pursues
construction of renewable-energy projects.  “A review of our involvement in new nuclear is currently
under way,” Justyn Smith, a spokesman for the Perth, Scotland-
based utility, said today by telephone. The U.K.’s second-
largest power producer will make an announcement “shortly.”  Scottish & Southern, GDF and Iberdrola announced plans to
work on a U.K. nuclear project in 2009 and bought a site for 70
million pounds ($109.1 million) near Sellafield, West Cumbria.
In the past two years, renewables ventures, including the 350-
megawatt Clyde land-based wind farm and the 140-turbine Greater 
Gabbard offshore farm, have dominated Scottish & Southern’s 
capital and investment spending, which will total 1.7 billion 
pounds in fiscal 2012.  “Renewables are their favored area and where they see
themselves at the forefront,” Investec analyst Angelos Anastasiou said in a telephone interview. “The nuclear side was
always half-hearted.”  Sabine Wacquez, a spokeswoman for  GDF Suez (GSZ)  in Paris,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.
Iberdrola’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail.  Expiring Capacity  The British government approved eight sites for nuclear
plants in October. About a quarter of the country’s generation
capacity is set to expire in the next decade as coal-fired
stations shut to meet European pollution requirements and
reactors reach the end of their working lives.  NuGeneration Ltd., 75 percent-controlled by GDF and
Iberdrola, aims to develop as much as 3,600 megawatts of atomic
power, with the first reactors commissioned around 2023. The
companies plan to make a final  investment decision  by 2015.  Other utilities pursuing plans to build plants in Britain
include Electricite de France SA,  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EON AG and RWE 
AG. EDF owns 15 of Britain’s 19 operating reactors and plans to 
build four more. Centrica is a 20 percent stakeholder in the 
French company’s existing nuclear plants and has the option to 
be a minority investor in its new facilities. The Windsor, 
England-based company is committed to spending 200 million 
pounds before making a final investment decision.  “We’d warmly welcome it if SSE were to abandon its
involvement in this expensive and dangerous technology,” Dan
Barlow, head of policy in  Scotland  at the World Wildlife Fund,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We’d encourage those companies
left in the consortium, including ScottishPower’s owners
Iberdrola, to also consider abandoning their nuclear
ambitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  