-- 
SEC Former Top Lawyer Says He Had No Conflict in Madoff Case

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-22T14:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sec-s-former-top-lawyer-says-he-had-no-conflict-in-madoff-case.html
Former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission general counsel  David Becker  said he didn’t violate
the law when he worked on policy about the Bernard Madoff case
after inheriting money from the  Ponzi scheme .  Becker, who stepped down in February, made the statement in
remarks prepared for a U.S. House hearing today. He is
testifying along with SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and H. David Kotz, the inspector general who released a 119-page report this
week calling for Becker’s conduct to be reviewed by federal
prosecutors.  Kotz alleged that Becker could have benefited personally
from a policy the lawyer advocated about how Madoff investors
should be compensated for their losses.  “I had no financial interest in the position that the
commission took,” Becker said in the testimony. He said he
“did precisely what I was supposed to do” by seeking an
opinion from the agency’s ethics lawyer that allowed him to work
on the matter.  Becker and Schapiro may face a grilling at today’s joint
hearing of Financial Services and Oversight and Government
Reform subcommittees. Republican lawmakers have said Kotz’s
findings reflect broader problems at the SEC.  “The disregard shown by the chief counsel, the ethics
counsel and the chairman to the appearance of a conflict of
interest raises legitimate questions about the judgment of all
the SEC officers involved in this matter,” Financial Services
staff members wrote in a memo prepared for committee members.  Under Fire  Schapiro, in her prepared remarks, faulted herself for
failing to recognize the conflict presented by Becker’s
inheritance, which she said she learned about when he rejoined
the agency in 2009.  “While I understand that Mr. Becker did obtain clearance
from the ethics counsel, I also realize that, as chairman, I
need to have a broader vision that goes beyond what may be
required,” she said. “I need to be acutely sensitive to any
issue that could potentially interfere with the commission’s
ability to fulfill its mission with the full confidence of the
investing public.”  The SEC has been trying to restore its reputation after
acknowledging that it missed opportunities to uncover Madoff’s
decades-long fraud years before it unraveled in 2008. More
recently, the commission has been under fire for destroying some
enforcement documents and bungling a $557 million lease for new
 office space .  The agency’s troubles have been magnified as it grapples
with writing dozens of new rules required by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, many of which are past due.  Fictitious Profits  Kotz began his probe in March after Becker and his brothers
were sued by the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff
bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed
fictitious profits from the inherited account.  When Becker joined the agency in 2009, he told Schapiro and
William Lenox, then the agency’s ethics counsel, about his
family’s Madoff investment, which had been liquidated after his
mother’s death. Lenox told Becker in May 2009 that he didn’t
have a financial conflict of interest and could work on the
policy for compensating the victims.  Schapiro said the agency has already taken steps to
overhaul the ethics office and the process for reviewing
possible conflicts.  Reclaimed Profits  As general counsel, Becker advocated that Madoff investors
be compensated for losses from an SEC-overseen insurance fund
using a formula that adjusted for inflation. The argument, which
was approved by the commission, could have made it less likely
that the trustee would seek to reclaim profits from Becker.  If the method were used, the amount of money that the
trustee would be able to seek from Becker and his brothers would
have been reduced by about $140,000, Kotz said in the report.  Becker said in the testimony that he took a 90 percent pay
cut to return to the SEC and at the age of 62 “forfeited
millions of dollars to serve my country.” Becker said his only
relationship with Madoff “is that in 1995 he defrauded my then
85-year-old father.”  He said that he sought an ethics ruling before working on
the matter at the agency because “I had neither desire nor
reason to skate close to the line.”  The public dispute over his conduct “has been a dreadful
experience for me in ways there is no need for me to detail,”
Becker said.  With assistance from Phil Mattingly in Washington --Editors:
Lawrence Roberts, Dan Reichl  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Zurich at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  