-- 
Senate Panel Approves Bill Aimed at Thwarting Computer Attacks

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T17:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/senate-panel-approves-bill-aimed-at-thwarting-computer-attacks.html
Legislation aimed at protecting the
nation’s financial networks and power grids from computer
hackers and safeguarding consumer data online won approval from
a U.S. Senate panel in a party-line vote.  The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the measure today,
with the committee’s 10 Democrats voting in favor and its eight
Republicans voting no. The bill, introduced by Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who chairs the Judiciary panel,
parallels many of the cybersecurity recommendations made by the
Obama administration in May.  The measure, S.1151, would set a national standard for
notifying consumers about data breaches, replacing varied
reporting requirements in 47 states. It also would make
concealing a data breach a crime, and toughen penalties for
damaging computers that manage the nation’s critical
infrastructure, including in the defense, transportation and
public health and safety sectors.  Data breaches at Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
have sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how businesses
protect consumer information and notify the public about cyber
attacks. Sony was criticized by U.S. lawmakers including
Representative Mary Bono Mack for taking six days to disclose an
attack that exposed 100 million customer accounts and prompted
the temporary shutdown of the company’s PlayStation Network.  The Leahy bill, known as the Personal Data Privacy and
Security Act of 2011, is one of a number of cybersecurity and
online-privacy measures introduced in Congress this year as
lawmakers increase their focus on how companies are dealing with
threats from hackers and malicious software.  Comprehensive Bill  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is
compiling comprehensive cybersecurity legislation on his side of
 Capitol Hill . In the House, a task force of 12 Republicans led
by Representative William “Mac” Thornberry of Texas is
expected to send its cybersecurity recommendations to House
Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor on Oct. 3.  Leahy introduced similar cybersecurity measures in 2005,
2007 and 2009 that stalled in the Senate. The measure approved
by the Judiciary committee today is co-sponsored by Democratic
senators  Charles Schumer  of New York, Ben Cardin of Maryland,  Al Franken  of Minnesota, and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  