-- 
Senate Poised to Vote on Trade Aid That May Advance Accords

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/senate-poised-to-vote-on-trade-aid-that-may-advance-agreements.html
The Senate is debating and plans to
vote today on the renewal of aid for workers who lose their jobs
to foreign competition, a step that would open the way for
President Barack Obama to submit three free-trade agreements.  Lawmakers are to consider a scaled-back version of Trade
Adjustment Assistance negotiated by Senator  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, and Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican as an amendment to a bill renewing tariff preferences
for developing nations. Republicans led by Senator Orrin Hatch
of Utah failed in the past two days to trim the benefits and
enact the aid only when trade deals with  South Korea , Colombia
and Panama are signed into law.  Renewing the worker benefits would meet a condition Obama
set before he would send Congress the trade accords reached
under President  George W. Bush  and awaiting approval since 2007.  “It’s been four years that people have been hanging around
waiting for these things to be submitted to the floor,”  William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign Trade Council  and a
Commerce Department official in the Clinton administration, said
in an interview. “I’m optimistic we can get all this done.”  Trade Adjustment Assistance augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of stimulus legislation in 2009,
it was expanded beyond manufacturing to include service workers
such as call-center employees. Republicans say renewing the
extended aid would be too costly when lawmakers are struggling
to reduce the federal deficit.  Trade Deals  The proposal to renew aid for service workers, estimated by
the Senate Finance Committee to cost $320 million annually,
would continue most of the assistance through 2013 and provide
retroactive benefits to those left out so far this year.  The South Korea trade deal, the biggest for the U.S. since
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994, would boost
U.S. exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the first year in
which it’s in full effect, according to the U.S. International
Trade Commission. The accord with Colombia would increase
exports by as much as $1.1 billion a year.  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
Caterpillar Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , have
been among the biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida urged lawmakers
today to support his amendment limiting the aid only to workers
hurt by imports from U.S. partners in free-trade agreements. The
Baucus proposal would include workers harmed by products from
nations lacking deals with the U.S., such as China and India.  Reports to Congress  An amendment by Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota
Republican, would require the U.S. International Trade
Commission to report on the costs to businesses when free-trade
agreements are signed by the president and submission to
Congress for approval is delayed more than two years.  “If the president believes a trade agreement is in
America’s national and economic interests, he needs to submit it
to Congress,” Thune said during debate.  Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, pushed an
amendment forcing the sale to Taiwan of 66 new F-16 C/D jets
built in his state. Taiwan said it needs to replace an aging air
fleet as  China  deploys missiles across a strait separating the
foes in Asia’s biggest military spending program.  Baucus said the trade-preferences bill isn’t the “time,
place or season,” for considering the sale of weapons.  Democrats staved off a push by Senate Republican leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Sept. 20 to add “fast-track”
authority intended to require that Congress act on trade
agreements within a limited time and without changes after the
president submits them. The mandate expired after Democrats
gained control of Congress under Bush in 2007.  Obama hasn’t requested renewal of the authority. A push for
it may “trigger an all-out ideological struggle over U.S. trade
policy,” a Council on Foreign Relations panel that included
former Democratic Senate leader Tom Daschle and Andrew Card, the
White House chief of staff under Bush, said in a Sept. 19
report.  The bill is H.R. 2832.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  