-- 
Shale Drilling Must Improve to Protect Environment, GDF Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-22T07:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/shale-drilling-must-improve-to-protect-environment-gdf-says.html
The technology used to extract oil
and gas from shale rocks, a process that has revolutionized the
U.S. energy industry, should be improved to protect the
environment, the head of  Europe ’s largest gas company said.  “There are concerns about the environmental impact,”
 Gerard Mestrallet , chief executive officer of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, said
in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .
“Probably it can be improved and probably it has to be
improved.”  Hydraulic fracturing, a technique that uses water, sand and
chemicals to break apart rocks and release trapped fuel, has
made the U.S. the world’s largest natural gas producer. That
success hasn’t quelled concern that fracking, as the process is
known, risks polluting drinking water.  GDF Suez is the former gas monopoly in France, which in
July became the first country in the world to pass a law making
fracking illegal. The Paris-based company held talks with
Schuepbach Energy LLC, holder of permits for shale exploration
in southern  France , to buy stakes in the licenses. These have
been dropped, and the utility isn’t currently developing shale
gas projects elsewhere, although it holds licenses in  Germany .  “In Europe, the geological situation has given serious
hopes in Poland and France,” Mestrallet said. In France,
“there will be no development of shale gas without the maximum
of measures to protect the environment.”  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is studying the
effects of fracking on drinking water. A committee advising the
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said Aug. 11 that gas companies
risk causing serious environmental damage unless they commit to
best practices in engineering.  Convince Public  Opposition in Pennsylvania, New York and other U.S. states
shows the industry needs to convince the public shale drilling
in safe, Mestrallet said.  “When we see resistance in  Pennsylvania , it’s clear that
there is progress to be made and explanations to be given to
populations everywhere,” he said.  GDF Suez, which has natural gas exploration and production
projects from  Australia  to the  North Sea , isn’t planning to
invest in U.S. shale to gain expertise in the drilling
technology, Mestrallet said in the interview.  In fracturing, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break up rock and allow
gas to flow. Advances in the technology have, in a few years,
pushed gas from shale to almost 30 percent of U.S. production
and may account for 47 percent of the total in 2035, according
to a report given to Chu last month and the Energy Information
Agency.  Texas  Shale  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil company and also based
in Paris, is producing natural gas from U.S. shale. The French
company entered the business last year when it agreed to pay
$800 million for 25 percent of Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s assets
in the Barnett Shale field in Texas.  “We have associated ourselves with a good teacher in the
U.S. They are drilling so many wells,” Armand Khayat, a gas
analyst at Total, told a conference in Paris last week. “We are
learning very quickly.”  In addition to the U.S., Total plans to develop
unconventional gas in Algeria,  Argentina , Australia, Canada,
 China , Denmark and Poland, company executives have said. Total
is now readying to start drilling in Argentina, Khayat said.  In France, the company applied to the government earlier
this month to keep its exploration permit in Montelimar,
pledging to use conventional technology and not hydraulic
fracturing. The  oil company  won the permit last year to probe
the area for shale gas and has had to revise its strategy
because of the ban.  ‘Respect Environment’  “There are no other techniques” than fracking to extract
hydrocarbons from shale, French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said in an interview on RTL radio last week. “Many experts
think that in two, three or four years, we will have techniques
that scrupulously respect the environment and allow us to
exploit what is underground.”  Hydraulic fracturing of one well requires between 10,000
and 15,000 cubic meters of water compared with the 550,000 cubic
meters consumed daily by a city like Paris, according to
France’s IFP Energies Nouvelles, an energy research
organization, adding that between 20 percent and 70 percent of
the water can be recovered and treated when production begins.  “The environmental impact is not neutral,” according to
the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  