-- 
Shimomura Sees More Bond Buying After Predicting Fed’s Mortgage ‘Surprise’

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T05:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/shimomura-sees-more-bond-buying-after-predicting-fed-surprise-.html
Hideo Shimomura, the Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co. investor who forecast the  Federal Reserve 
would snap up mortgage securities when other analysts predicted
the central bank would limit buying to Treasuries, said policy
makers will increase their purchases as soon as November.  Shimomura said Aug. 30 the Fed would consider buying
mortgage-backed securities, which help guide home-loan costs, to
help borrowers and spur America’s housing market. Morgan
Stanley, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade
directly with the central bank, called yesterday’s decision to
target the securities a “surprise move,” in a report.  “They may do additional easing at their next meeting,”
said Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $78.2
billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset,
a unit of  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank. “It will be a
mixture of Treasuries and agencies. There’s no limit on
easing,” he said today in a telephone interview.  Housing isn’t gaining traction two years into the U.S.
economic recovery. The pace of new-home construction fell to a
three-month low in August, Commerce Department figures show. The
average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to a record 4.09
percent this month, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage
financing company in McLean,  Virginia , though it hasn’t kept up
with a plunge in benchmark Treasury rates.  Widening Spread  The difference between 10-year yields and 30-year  mortgage
rates  was 2.25 percentage points. The spread widened to 2.28
percentage points on Aug. 10, the most in 30 months.  Ten-year Treasury yields declined five basis points today
to 1.81 percent as of 6:22 a.m. in  London , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent note maturing in
August 2021 rose 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 102
26/32. The rate was as low as 1.8081 percent, a record based on
Fed data.  Policy makers said yesterday the Fed will replace $400
billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries by the end of June.  The central bank will buy bonds with maturities of six to
30 years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said.  It will also reinvest maturing housing debt into mortgage-
backed securities, instead of Treasuries.  The measure will “help support conditions in mortgage
markets,” the Fed said in its statement. “The housing sector
remains depressed.”  Housing Debt  So-called housing debt consists of bonds issued by
mortgage-finance companies such as  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae .
It also is comprised of mortgage-backed securities issued by the
companies.  Officials are aiming to assist home-loan borrowers, Janaki Rao and Zofia Koscielniak, mortgage strategists at Morgan
Stanley in  New York  wrote in their report yesterday.  Policy makers discussed the range of tools available to
promote a stronger economic recovery and will employ them as
appropriate, the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  