-- 
PharmAthene Wins Rights to Profit From Siga Smallpox Drug

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-22T23:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/siga-loses-bid-to-deny-smallpox-drug-rights-to-pharmathene.html
Siga Technologies Inc. (SIGA)  must share
with PharmAthene Inc. profit from sales of a smallpox drug that
may total more than $400 million, a judge ruled. Siga plunged as
much as 38 percent in Nasdaq trading.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. in
Wilmington said today New York-based Siga breached its
obligation to negotiate in good faith on ST-246, an antiviral
drug for use in case of a biological attack. Parsons rejected
PharmAthene’s claim that Siga breached a binding license
agreement. He also denied claims for a lump sum award and
instead ordered the companies to split the profits.  “The plaintiff is entitled to share in any profits
realized from the sale of the drug in question,” Parsons said
today in a 118-page opinion.  Siga probably will appeal “unfavorable aspects” of the
decision, Chief Executive Officer Eric A. Rose said.  “We are gratified that the court appreciated that the
draft term sheet did not constitute a binding license
agreement,” Rose said in a statement. “We respectfully
disagree with the unprecedented decision to grant to PharmAthene
a continuing interest in the net profits.”  Eric Richman, PharmAthene’s chief executive officer, called
the ruling “transformative” for the Annapolis, Maryland-based
company.  “As a result of this ruling, we will appropriately share
in the financial success of ST-246 without any of the associated
infrastructure and related expenses,” Richman said in a
statement.  50 Percent Split  Siga fell $1.72, or 36 percent, to $3 at 3:04 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It earlier touched $2.93,
the lowest since December 2008. PharmAthene rose 48 cents, or 21
percent, to $2.74, before trading was halted on the NYSE Amex
stock exchange.  Parsons ruled that PharmAthene is entitled to 50 percent of
all net profit from sales of ST-246 once Siga earns $40 million
in net profit. PharmAthene would get the payment for 10 years
following the first commercial sale of any product derived from
ST-246, according to the opinion. Siga must keep sales records
for the drug, which PharmAthene has the right to examine
annually, Parsons wrote.  ‘I’m Shocked’  “I’m shocked by this decision,”  John Lewis , a Siga
investor and president of Gardner Lewis Asset Management, said
in a phone interview. “We feel like the judge made a bad
decision based on Delaware corporate law and validated an
agreement that was always stamped as non-binding.”  Lewis said his  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based firm is one
of Siga’s five largest shareholders. It holds more than 2.1
million shares of Siga stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  PharmAthene sued Siga in 2006 claiming the biotechnology
firm lost more than $1 billion in potential profits when its
rival reneged on the licensing agreement for the smallpox drug.
Government officials awarded Siga a $433 million contract to
provide ST-246 to the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services, the company said in May.  ‘Non-Binding’  Lawyers for Siga argued at trial that licensing talks were
never completed and documents outlining proposed terms were
marked as “non-binding.” A PharmAthene official said in court
that the heading was left on the documents by mistake.  PharmAthene’s attorneys argued during a two-week trial in
January that Siga was running out of money to develop ST-246 in
late 2005 when it proposed a merger or license agreement.  PharmAthene executives ultimately loaned Siga $3 million to
keep the drug’s development going while the two companies
negotiated, according to court testimony. Company officials
claimed that ex-Siga Chairman Donald G. Drapkin guaranteed the
companies would either merge or Siga would grant PharmAthene a
license for the medicine.  Drapkin, a former executive of billionaire  Ronald Perelman ’s MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. holding company,
countered during the trial that he never promised PharmAthene
officials a license. A term sheet was intended to serve as a
“jumping off point” for negotiations if merger talks faltered,
Drapkin said.  In his ruling, Parsons said the evidence showed PharmAthene
wouldn’t have loaned Siga the money without assurance that it
reasonably could expect to control ST-246 through either a
merger or a license agreement. Siga likely experienced
“seller’s remorse” when it appeared the drug would be a
success, Parsons wrote in the opinion.  “With the benefit of hindsight, it appears M&F and Siga’s
board made a terrible business decision in opting to offer a
major stake in ST-246 for a relatively small capital infusion,”
Parsons wrote. “The evidence is unmistakable, however, that
Drapkin and Siga knew what they were doing and went ahead
anyway.”  The case is  PharmAthene Inc. (PIP)  v. Siga Technologies Inc.,
CA2627, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 