-- 
Sime Says Eastern and Oriental Acquisition May Boost Earnings

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-09-22T03:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sime-says-eastern-and-oriental-acquisition-may-boost-earnings.html
Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s
biggest publicly traded palm oil producer, said the acquisition
of a 30 percent stake in Malaysian property developer Eastern
and Oriental Bhd. may boost earnings.  “Taking on this 30 percent stake, at the stroke of a pen,
we have property market presence in three key areas -- Klang
Valley, Penang and Johor,” Sime Group Chief Executive Officer
Mohd Bakke Salleh said in an interview yesterday. “We’re
looking at this company as a brand that we can latch onto and
also benefit from particularly in terms of high-end, niche
development, hospitality business and more importantly, the
entrepreneurial way of things.”  Buying the 766 million ringgit ($243 million) stake makes
Sime the largest shareholder in the developer, which has land
holdings in the northern state of Penang and the southern Johor
state. The purchase may boost Sime’s earnings by 28.9 million
ringgit in fiscal 2012, rising to 51.6 million ringgit in fiscal
2014, UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. said Aug. 29.  Sime’s shares have dropped 7.3 percent this year in
 Kuala Lumpur , while Eastern and Oriental gained 27 percent. The
company agreed on Aug. 29 to buy 273 million shares in Eastern
and Oriental at 2.30 ringgit each. That was 59 percent more than
its last close of 1.45 ringgit on Aug. 25.  Loss Making  The company’s plan to expand its property division comes
three months after it sold two fabrication yards for 695 million
ringgit, quitting its loss-making oil and gas business. Sime,
which counts property development as one of its six main
businesses, swung to a fourth-quarter profit of 1.31 billion
ringgit in the three months ended June 30, compared with a loss
of 77.4 million a year earlier.  Sime may be forced by the Securities Commission to make a
mandatory general offer, or full takeover, for Eastern and
Oriental as the company, together with the three shareholders
who sold the 30 percent stake, have about 41 percent equity
interest, the Edge Financial Daily  reported  on Sept. 13, citing
market talk.  “This story actually caught on and it spread like wildfire
and people believed in it,” Mohd Bakke said. “Currently, it
doesn’t even cross our mind, because we decided just to take a
stake below the mandatory trigger level.”  Any general offer wouldn’t have implications on dividend
payment ability or hurt earnings as the company’s gearing at 0.3
is “very low,” Bakke said. Sime was open to the possibility of
making a general offer in the future, he said.  Sime rose to a one-week high yesterday after UOB-Kay Hian
said concerns the company paid too much for its stake and that
it may make a possible general offer for the rest of the
property developer were “overblown.”  “We would like to reiterate that we are examining the
circumstances surrounding the transaction for any Takeover Code
implications,” the Securities Commission Malaysia said in a
statement on its  website  on Sept. 12. “We are also reviewing
all stock transactions by all parties over the relevant period
related to this matter. The outcome of these two reviews will
only be known after all the relevant facts have been
established.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  