-- 
Sime Darby Expects Palm-Oil Production to Increase in Indonesia, Malaysia

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-09-22T08:41:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/sime-darby-expects-higher-palm-oil-production-as-yields-improve.html
Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s
biggest publicly listed palm-oil producer, expects harvests from
its plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia to climb in the year
to June as yields improve.  The increase reflects the “improvement in the oil-
extraction rate and also higher production of FFB,” said Group
Chief Executive Officer Mohd Bakke Salleh in an interview,
referring to fresh fruit bunches. He didn’t specify output.  Rising harvests may extend a 20 percent decline in palm-oil
futures this year on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, and
widen the discount to soybean oil, its main competitor for
cooking and fuel. That could curb near-record global food costs
that climbed 26 percent in the past year, according to the
 United Nations .  Palm oil  is made by crushing the plum-sized
fruit which grow in tightly packed bunches.  Futures may hold at 3,000 ringgit ($953) a metric ton until
the yearend because of their “significant discount” to other
cooking oils, said Mohd Bakke, 57. Demand from  India  will
support prices as the country prepares to celebrate Diwali at
the end of October, he said.  Sime Darby, which supplies about 6 percent of global output,
produced 2.45 million tons of crude palm oil and 10.11 million
tons of fruit bunches in the year to June 30, company data show.
Output in Malaysia, the second-biggest grower, may increase to
18.3 million tons in 2011 from 17 million tons last year, Choo
Yuen May, director-general of the Palm Oil Board, said Aug. 8.  Gap Widens  Palm oil has slumped 24 percent from a 35-month high of
3,967 ringgit on Feb. 10. December-delivery futures dropped 1.8
percent to 3,010 ringgit today.  Futures may see a gradual recovery after November to reach
4,000 ringgit by the second quarter as demand for biofuel cuts
 soybean-oil  supply and a potential easing of monetary policy in
 China  and India boosts demand,  Dorab Mistry , director of Godrej
International Ltd., said Sept. 16.  Palm oil’s discount to soybean oil deepened to $248.20 per
ton from $244.34 yesterday. That compares with an average of
$133.49 a ton in the past decade, Bloomberg data show. It
widened to $289.97 on Aug. 31, the most since 2008.  The monsoon season which typically starts in the last few
months of the year could hamper harvesting, said Mohd Bakke, who
has more than 20 years experience in the industry. It is
“difficult to be a weather forecaster because the weather
pattern has taken a different profile these days,” he said.  Liberia Plantations  The La Nina pattern caused a drought in  Latin America ,
threatening soybean crops, and floods in Indonesia and Malaysia,
which hurt oil-palm harvests early this year. It may return by
December, said the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.  Sime, which has about 220,000 hectares of land in Liberia
as part of a concession to plant oil palm and rubber, may expand
further into the African continent, including Cameroon, said
Mohd Bakke. The company is planning “upstream and downstream”
ventures for its plantation division, which represents 31
percent of revenue, he said, without elaborating.  The company has 522,000 hectares of oil-palm plantations in
Malaysia and Indonesia, company data show.  Indonesia’s new export tax structure will make its refined
palm oil cheaper compared with  Malaysia , potentially hurting the
local refinery business, he said.  “We need to identify buyers who are still keen to take our
products based on what they consider to be good value,” he said.
The industry would need to discuss measures with the government
to reposition the business in light of the new taxes, he said.  Indonesia, the largest palm-oil grower, introduced a
maximum tax of 10 percent on refined, bleached and deodorized
palm oil, said  Finance Ministry Decree  signed Aug. 15. The
highest  tax rate  for RBD palm olein will be 13 percent and for
crude palm oil 22.5 percent. The new levels take effect Oct. 1.  Sime is building a refinery in  Indonesia ’s South Kalimantan
which will have a processing capacity of 2,500 tons per day and
is expected to be operational in 2013, Mohd Bakke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 