-- 
Slim Lured to Colombia as Rebel Retreat Fuels Rate-Increase Bets on Growth

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-09-22T19:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/slim-lured-to-colombia-as-rebel-retreat-fuels-rate-increase-bets.html
Colombia , where investment from
billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Sam Zell  has kept economic growth
accelerating, is the only country in Latin America where traders
are predicting more interest rate increases to slow inflation.  While policy makers in Brazil are cutting borrowing costs
to guard against a global slowdown and investors abandon calls
for increases in Mexico and  Chile , traders expect Colombia will
lift its key rate this year. Banco de la Republica will boost
the rate for a seventh time in 2011, bringing borrowing costs to
4.75 percent by December from 4.5 percent today, according to
swaps data compiled by Citigroup Inc.  Colombia is benefiting from a decade of military victories
over guerrillas that have opened up swathes of countryside for
companies to explore for crude, coal and gold. Zell’s
investments in real estate and Slim’s push into oil are helping
fuel $9.6 billion in foreign investment this year, the most in
at least 12 years, spurring economic growth above 5 percent and
pushing inflation to a two-year high.  “Colombia’s economy is still accelerating,” said
Alejandro Arreaza, a  Latin America  analyst at Barclays Capital
Inc. in  New York . “Other countries in the region are at a stage
of moderating growth and so you see them shifting to a less
restrictive monetary policy.”  Gross domestic product expanded 5.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the most since the three months
ended June 2008, the government statistics agency said in a
 report  today. Growth was in line with the median estimate of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Emerging Markets  Traders in developing nations including  South Africa ,
Mexico and Chile are expecting policy makers to cut rates within
the next three months, according to Morgan Stanley.  Turkey ’s
central bank unexpectedly lowered its key rate to a record on
Aug. 4, followed by a 50 basis point, or 0.50 percentage point,
reduction by  Brazil  on Aug. 31 as policy makers shifted to
safeguarding their economies against a global slowdown. In
 China , like Colombia, investors predict more rate increases to
curb inflation, swaps trading shows.  Colombian three-month interest-rate swaps rose 21 basis
points in the past three months to 4.53 percent, signaling the
expectations for rate increases.  A majority of Colombian analysts forecast policy makers
will raise their key rate 50 basis points to 5 percent by year-
end, according to a central bank survey published Sept. 13. None
of the 38 economists surveyed expect a rate cut this year.  Growth Outlook  The central bank increased its overnight lending rate six
times this year to stem inflation as the surge in investment,
retail sales and bank lending fuel growth. Annual inflation
quickened to 3.42 percent in July, the fastest since June 2009,
before slowing to 3.27 percent last month. The central bank
targets inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent this year.  As banks from UBS AG to Citigroup cut their forecasts for
global growth, Colombian policy makers raised their 2011
forecast in July to as high as 6.5 percent this year. That would
be up from 4.3 percent in 2010 and the fastest pace since 2007.  Mexico ’s central bank cut its growth forecast last month to
as low as 3.8 percent while economists surveyed by Brazil’s
central bank predict the expansion in Latin America’s biggest
country will slow to 3.5 percent from 7.5 percent in 2010.  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal in New York, predicts Colombia will hold
off on raising rates to avoid triggering gains in the peso. The
peso has declined 0.1 percent against the dollar this year, and
is up 7.3 percent over the past three years, the best
performance among the six most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, cutting into exporters’ profit margins.  Foreign Investment  “I don’t think they would chance entertaining an  interest
rate  hike when everyone else is going in the other direction,”
Alvarez said. “That would only accelerate gains in the peso.”  Foreign direct investment in Colombia jumped 49 percent to
$9.6 billion in the first eight months of the year, according to
the central bank. Foreign companies put 84 percent of that money
in oil and mining after President  Juan Manuel Santos  and
predecessor Alvaro Uribe retook parts of the country’s jungle,
mountains and plains that had been under guerrilla control.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the nation’s
biggest guerrilla group, has about 8,000 fighters, less than
half the number it had at its peak in 2002, when the government
estimated the group’s ranks at 17,000.  Colombia is taking advantage of those military victories as
it seeks to boost oil output to 1.7 million barrels a day by
2020, from 929,226 barrels in July.  ‘Rediscovered’ Colombia  Slim said in a February interview that he is investing in
Colombia through holding company Grupo Carso SAB because the
country is “actively” seeking to draw businesses into the
market and bolster development of its mineral assets.  Slim’s firms have no concrete plans for further investments
in Colombia,  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for the billionaire, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , is also seeking to enter
Colombia’s oil industry, and Batista is investing in coal
through  MPX Energia SA. (MPXE3)   “Colombia is very, very rich -- it’s been rediscovered,”
Batista said in an interview in March, referring to land opened
up for development after the retreat of guerrillas. “For 30
years these areas had been kept untouched.”  ‘Next Star’  EBX Group Ltd., which controls Batista’s publicly traded
companies, is planning on investing about $4 billion in coal,
oil and gold production in Colombia, press officials for Batista
said in response to questions. Batista wasn’t immediately
available to give additional comment.  Zell, chairman of Chicago-based Equity International, said
last month that he plans to invest in commercial real estate in
Colombia and eventually move on to residential projects.  “Colombia is the next star of Latin America,” Zell said
in an Aug. 30 interview on Bloomberg Television.  Equity International entered Colombia two weeks ago with a
$75 million investment in Bogota-based Terranum Development, a
closely held real estate company, Thomas McDonald, chief
strategic officer, said in a phone interview Sept. 20. He said
Colombia was an attractive opportunity for investment because of
its stable currency, fast growth and muted inflation.  Market Turmoil  While Banco de la Republica left rates unchanged last month
for the first time in seven months, citing turmoil in
international markets,  minutes  of the meeting noted the
Colombian economy continues to expand. Growth in household
demand and bank lending are being fueled by inflation-adjusted,
or real, interest rates at record low levels, policy makers
said.  “Colombia is just catching up in its business cycle,”
said Munir Jalil, the chief economist at Citigroup’s Colombia
unit and a former central bank official who helped forecast
inflation. “It’s not that Colombia is an island, isolated from
the rest of the world. You just have to consider the domestic
factors and they are still coming too strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  