-- 
Slim Turns to Samurai Bonds for Funding: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/slim-turns-to-samurai-bonds-after-swiss-franc-dollar-sales-mexico-credit.html
(Corrects which countries have sold yen bonds in eighth
paragraph of article published on Sept. 22.)  America Movil  SAB,  Latin America ’s
largest wireless carrier, may become the first non-financial
company from the region to sell bonds in Japan as it seeks to
diversify sources of financing after raising $3.1 billion of
debt in the U.S. and  Switzerland  last month.  Mexico  City-based America Movil may follow the government’s
so-called samurai offering in 2010 after meeting with bond
investors in Japan last week. The yield on Mexico’s 10-year yen
securities, the benchmark for companies, dropped 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, this year to 2.20 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds due in 2018 sold
by NTT DoCoMo Inc., Japan’s largest mobile-phone operator, yield
0.65 percent.  America Movil, which is controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is turning to Japan’s bond market after stepping up debt
sales in August to help finance a $6.5 billion acquisition of
Telefonos de Mexico SAB shares. The company is seeking to expand
its financing sources as slowing growth in the U.S. and Europe’s
worsening debt crisis crimp issuance in those markets.  “It’s a good thing,” Sergio Rodriguez, the head of Latin
American telecommunication ratings at  Fitch Ratings  in
Monterrey, Mexico, said in a telephone interview. “They are
diversifying their funding. This gives them more financial
flexibility compared to a company that’s limited to sell debt in
just one market.”  Yields Rise  Yields on America Movil’s benchmark dollar bonds due in
2020 climbed 34 basis points in the past month to 3.89 percent
as concern  Greece  may default erodes demand for emerging-market
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities
yield 29 basis points more than similar-maturity Mexican
government debt, up from 24 two months ago. The company is rated
A by Fitch, the sixth-lowest investment grade and three steps
above Mexico.  America Movil hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. to arrange last
week’s meetings in Japan, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
discussions were private. The talks took place after Mexico met
with Japanese investors to gauge demand for its planned sale.  Samurai Offerings  An official at America Movil who asked not to be named in
accordance with company policy declined to comment. A press
official in  Mexico’s Finance Ministry  said officials weren’t
available to comment.  Only Latin American governments and financial companies
have sold bonds in Japan in the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Uruguay and  Panama  tapped the market
earlier this year. Mexico has been the region’s most frequent
and biggest issuer of samurai bonds, selling $4.8 billion in
five offerings since 1999, when Bloomberg began tracking the
data.  America Movil “has the ability to do it,”  Michael Roche ,
an emerging-market strategist at MF Global in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “They have the name recognition.”  Slim was named the world’s richest man for a second year in
a row by Forbes magazine in March.  U.S. corporate bond sales totaled $62 billion this month,
down from $109 billion in the same period in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for global economic growth this week and predicted
“severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt
crisis or if U.S. policy makers reach an impasse over a fiscal
plan.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis points
yesterday to 247, according to JPMorgan’s indexes.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years increased 23 basis points yesterday to 197, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso weakened 3.5 percent to 13.7056 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its decline this year to 10 percent.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in October 2012 rose 16 basis points yesterday to 5.00
percent, signaling  Banco de Mexico  may raise the key rate that
month.  America Movil plans to start next month its offer for a 40
percent stake in Telmex, as Mexico’s largest landline phone
carrier is known, to combine operations after buying a majority
stake last year.  ‘Well Diversified’  The company doesn’t need to sell more debt to pay for the
acquisition, Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said
in a telephone interview on Sept. 5.  “It’s important to have a well diversified investor
base,” Garcia-Moreno said.  The amount of financing that Latin American companies
including American Movil can raise in  Japan ’s bond market is
limited because the offerings are typically smaller and have
shorter maturities than ones in the U.S., said Alexandre Coelho
deputy head of  investment banking  at Daiwa Capital Markets in
New York. Daiwa is the biggest underwriter of Latin American
samurai deals this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Tenors could be two, three or maybe five years, depending
on the name because of the characteristics of the Japanese
markets,” Coelho said in a telephone interview in New York.
“Those companies would have to work very profoundly with the
arranger beforehand.”  Overseas Offerings  Coelho said that he’s working with Latin American companies
to sell bonds in Japan. He declined to identify the companies.  America Movil sold last month $2 billion of five-year bonds
to yield 2.549 percent and $750 million more of its securities
due 2040 to yield 5.502 percent, making it the biggest Mexican
corporate issuer this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company sales last year included $4 billion in dollar
bonds, a $3 billion sale in the euro and pound bond markets,
$1.2 billion in Mexican peso bonds and $215 million in Swiss
franc notes. It issued $198 million in Chilean peso bonds in
2009.  “The company has reached a scale in which it’s looking to
attack a different investor base, one that doesn’t own America
Movil paper or doesn’t have much exposure,” Fitch’s Rodriguez
said. “That’s what they’re looking to do when they sell debt in
different currencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  