-- 
Smith Barney Lead Plaintiff in Class Action Didn’t Own Shares, Judge Told

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-22T22:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/smith-barney-class-action-lead-plaintiff-thrown-out-never-owned-shares.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Smith Barney unit
can’t be sued by the union pension fund that’s the lead
plaintiff in a six-year-old shareholder fraud class action
because it never owned any of the shares that are the basis of
the lawsuit, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III in  Manhattan ,
citing “epic failures” by the lawyers on both sides of the
case, today dismissed Operating Local 649 Annuity Trust Fund
from the suit. The pension fund’s attorneys told the judge that
their client bought more than 75,000 shares of a similarly named
security and not those involved in the case.  Pauley called the effect of the error “seismic,” and said
it has caused the litigation to take on “Sisyphean
dimensions.”  “After six years of litigation, including extensive motion
practice, an appeal to the Second Circuit, remand, more motion
practice, and discovery, lead counsel learned that the lead
plaintiff never purchased any of the securities at issue in this
action,” Pauley wrote in today’s decision.  The suit was filed against  Smith Barney  Fund Management LLC
and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in 2005, after Citigroup
agreed to pay $208 million to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that its subsidiaries kept
fees that should have been turned over to Smith Barney’s mutual
funds.  Two Funds  In a letter to Pauley Aug. 31,  Bernstein Liebhard LLP ,
which represents Local 649, said the union had purchased shares
in Smith Barney Capital Preservation Collective Trust, not Smith
Barney Capital Preservation Fund, the mutual fund that is the
subject of the litigation.  “Lead counsel’s failure to confirm the most basic fact --
that its client purchased the securities at issue in this action
-- has resulted in a considerable waste of time and resources,”
Pauley said.  Bernstein Liebhard partner Stanley Bernstein said the
lawyers relied on the union’s certification that it had bought
the mutual fund shares and brokerage statements that mistakenly
reflected the mutual fund shares along with their ticker symbol.  “We did not just rely on somebody’s word,” Bernstein said
in a phone interview today. “We had the underlying core
documentation from the broker. And it was wrong.”  In addition to the union’s attorneys, Pauley also
criticized Citigroup’s lawyers in his opinion.  ’Failed to Ask’  “Astonishingly, defense counsel failed to ask their
clients whether Local 649 had invested in any of the Smith
Barney funds and, if so, specifically which one,” Berman said.
“Had Smith Barney simply checked its records, it would have
avoided six years of sparring with a phantom opponent.”  Charles Platt, a partner in the  New York  office of  Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP , which represents Citigroup,
declined to comment on Pauley’s opinion today.  The mistake will require several motions to be rebriefed,
the filing of another amended complaint and the exchange of
additional evidence in the case, according to Pauley.  “In retrospect, it was something so obvious that every
lawyer in the case should have recognized the problem and
reacted immediately,” Pauley wrote. “But no one did.”  The case is In re Smith Barney Transfer Agent Litigation,
05-cv-07583, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  