-- 
Softbank Falls Most in Three Years After KDDI Iphone Report

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-09-22T08:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/softbank-shares-fall-most-in-two-years-on-report-kddi-will-offer-iphone.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , the sole iPhone
seller in  Japan , fell the most in almost three years after a
magazine reported bigger rival  KDDI Corp. (9433)  will offer Apple
Inc.’s newest version of the smartphone.  Softbank fell 12 percent to 2,282 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange, its biggest decline since November
2008. More than 31 million shares exchanged hands, compared with
a six-month daily average of 7.8 million. KDDI, Japan’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, dropped 0.8 percent.  Softbank jumped ahead of KDDI and NTT DoCoMo Inc., the
country’s biggest mobile carrier, in subscription growth after
adding Apple’s smartphone to its lineup. The iPhone 5 may be
available through KDDI as early as November, Nikkei Business
magazine reported today, citing a person it didn’t identify.  Growth in Softbank’s new customers may slow after its rival
starts offering the popular handset, Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst
at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today.
“KDDI will probably stop losing its customers and start
attracting new ones by offering the new iPhone.”  KDDI currently sells smartphones including ones that use
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software and has dropped to third place in
terms of subscriber additions behind Softbank and DoCoMo.  Apple’s iPhone accounted for 50 percent of smartphones used
in Japan as of March 31, while Android-based handsets accounted
for 40 percent,  MM Research  said in July.  Smartphone Boom  Annual smartphone shipments in Japan will probably more
than double to 19.9 million units in the year to March 2012 from
8.6 million in the previous 12 months, and jump to 30.6 million
by March 2016, the researcher said.  “We’re not the source of information for the report” in
Nikkei Business, Keiichi Sakurai, a Tokyo-based spokesman for
KDDI, said by phone today, declining to comment further.  Fumihiro Ito, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Softbank,
declined to comment on whether the company will offer a new
iPhone model this year.  Smartphone sales will overtake those for conventional
mobile phones in Japan in the year ending March 2013, the Tokyo-
based researcher estimated in December.  Apple hasn’t announced when it expects to introduce the
iPhone 5. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  may unveil the new
phone Oct. 4, when the company is scheduled to have a media
event, the AllThingsD website reported yesterday, citing people
it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in 東京 at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  