-- 
Solaria Rises in Madrid Trading as Dongfang Deal Helps Asia, Europe Growth

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-09-22T16:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/solaria-rises-as-much-as-8-3-after-signing-dongfang-deal-1-.html
Solaria Energia & Medio Ambiente SA
rose in Madrid trading on plans to develop photovoltaic  power
plants  with  China ’s Dongfang Electric Corp. and expand in  Asia .  Spain’s only traded solar-panel maker gained 2.6 percent by
the close at 5:30 p.m. local time. The company plans to develop
100 megawatts of plants a year with Dongfang, focusing on China
and Germany, Sales Director David Carrasco said today by e-mail.
Dongfang Electric, based in Chengdu, also agreed a $30 million
 credit line  for Solaria that will be used to buy components.  “This agreement strengthens our position in Asia and
offers significant opportunities to further develop our presence
in the region,” Carrasco, 44, said in a phone interview. “The
credit line allows us to take on new customers easily as it
reduces the costs burden” of making solar equipment, he said.  Solaria, based in Madrid, is increasing investment in
photovoltaic plants after German demand for its solar panels
slowed, leading to a loss in the second quarter. The company,
which assembles generators in Puertollano,  Spain , from Chinese
parts, was certified as a European Union producer last month.  Dongfang may benefit from subsidies in Italy, the second-
biggest solar market after Germany, that are 10 percent higher
for panels assembled by EU certified makers.  Dongfang “is a powerful partner,” Carrasco said, adding
the accord may lead to Middle East projects. Solaria won’t need
to provide collateral for the credit line “but we have to lead
and provide the know-how for all our joint projects,” he said.  Solaria advanced 4 euro cents to 1.61 euros after surging as
much as 8.3 percent to the highest since Aug. 1. The IBEX 35
Index of benchmark Spanish stocks ended down 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at   bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  