-- 
Solyndra Founder Gronet ‘Appalled’ by Loan Delay, E-Mails Show

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T18:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/solyndra-founder-appalled-by-loan-delay.html
Solyndra LLC’s founder, seeking
$535 million in U.S. loan guarantees, said he was appalled when
the  Bush administration  delayed action on aid to the solar-panel
manufacturer.  “Many people worked through the holidays to make sure we
were doing our part to stay on track,” Chris Gronet said in a
post-midnight e-mail to an Energy Department official on Jan.
12, 2009. Gronet, who was also the company’s chief executive
officer, spurned an apology from an Energy Department official.  The collapse of Solyndra has brought criticism by
Republican lawmakers of President  Barack Obama , whose
administration eventually approved the guarantees. Solyndra
filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6. E-mails released by
the Energy Department today, showing Gronet as an unhappy
applicant, documented that the guarantee was delayed although
not rejected under Republican President  George W. Bush .  “I was appalled to learn on Friday that our application is
being delayed yet again,” Gronet wrote in the 2009 e-mail to
Steve Isakowitz, the Energy Department’s chief financial
officer.  Isakowitz responded, telling Gronet the department was
“highly motivated to move expeditiously,” while making certain
it gave sufficient review of the application by Solyndra, the
Fremont, California-based maker of a cylindrical solar-power
device.  In a second e-mail later that day, Gronet said he was on
the phone with David Frantz, director of the Energy Department
loan program under Bush.  “I find the response completely unacceptable,” Gronet
wrote. “An apology from David is not enough.”  Rules ‘Keep Changing’  The rules and conditions of the loan “keep changing,”
Gronet wrote. “The impact on Solyndra is severe.”  A credit committee evaluating Solyndra’s application in the
final days of the Bush administration returned the proposal to
the Energy Department’s loan programs office for further review,
saying that while the project “appears to have merit” the
“apparent haste in recommending” funding left some questions
unanswered.  The credit committee asked for an independent market
analysis. It endorsed the application two months later, during
the Obama administration, after that analysis was completed. The
loan guarantee was awarded in September 2009.  Gronet, who founded Solyndra in 2005, was replaced as CEO
by Brian Harrison, a veteran of  Intel Corp ., in July 2010.
Gronet remained chairman until Aug. 19, when Solyndra announced
his departure, 12 days before it halted operations on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  