-- 
Solyndra Chief Taking Fifth Boasted of Prospects Two Months Ago

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/solyndra-chief-boasted-of-prospects-months-ago.html
Solyndra LLC Chief Executive
Officer Brian Harrison, who plans to invoke his Fifth Amendment
right to silence at a congressional hearing tomorrow, was vocal
about the company’s prospects in meetings with some of the same
lawmakers two months ago.  “We’re growing, doubling in size year-over-year, and on
track,” Harrison, 54, told reporters in  Washington  on July 21
after conveying a similar message to members of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, which was investigating a $535 million
U.S. loan guarantee the company was awarded in September 2009.  The maker of solar panels fired its 1,100 workers on Aug.
31, filed for  bankruptcy protection  and then saw its Fremont,
 California , headquarters raided by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . Harrison, a former Intel Corp. executive who once
pitched for Seattle Mariners baseball farm teams, has heeded the
advice of lawyers that he decline to testify.  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions and “is cooperating
fully” with the U.S. Attorney in  San Francisco , according to a
Sept. 20 statement on the decision by Harrison and Chief
Financial Officer W.G. Stover Jr. to refuse to answer questions.  Republican lawmakers on the House energy committee have
concentrated their inquiry on the Obama administration’s
judgment in backing Solyndra and whether decisions were shaped
by political connections of investors. Democrats led by
Representative Henry Waxman of California have focused on
whether they were misled by Harrison’s assurances Solyndra was
turning around after early missteps.  Democrats’ Question  “Less than two months ago, Mr. Harrison met with us and
other committee members to assure us that Solyndra was in a
strong financial position and in no danger of failing,” Waxman
and Representative Diana DeGette of  Colorado  wrote in a Sept. 8
letter requesting that Republicans call Harrison to testify
before the House panel.  David Miller , Solyndra’s spokesman, didn’t respond to phone
and e-mail requests for comment from Harrison.  Harrison was hired by Solyndra in July 2010 to take over
from Christian Gronet, who founded the company and invented its
unconventional tubular solar device coated in a thin film of
copper, indium, gallium and selenium. It was marketed as a
lightweight alternative to flat solar panels made from silicon
such as those from  China .  His “strong understanding of sophisticated manufacturing
operations” made him the right man for the job, Gronet, who
stayed on as chairman, said in a statement at the time. Harrison
spent most of his career at  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker.  Before Arrival  Before Harrison arrived, Solyndra obtained its loan
guarantee from the administration, built a $733 million
manufacturing plant on the bet that demand for its product would
increase, received a warning from its auditor questioning
whether it would remain a “going concern” and withdrew plans
for an initial public offering.  Solyndra was producing its panels at a cost of $4 a watt
and selling them for $3.24, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission before the offering was
canceled.  The company reported revenue for fiscal 2009 of $100.5
million and a net loss $172.2 million, according to the filing.  “He probably got in over his head,” Dan Hutcheson, of
Sunnyvale, California-based VLSI Research Inc., said in an
interview. With a background in computer memory chips,
“Harrison was in a space that he didn’t know much about,”
Hutcheson said.  14 Innings  Harrison, who pitched a combined 14 innings in his tryout
with minor-league baseball teams in  San Jose , California, and
Bellingham, Washington, graduated from  Stanford University  with
a chemical engineering degree and has an MBA from  Santa Clara 
University in California.  He served as vice president and general manager of the
flash memory group at Santa Clara, California-based Intel.
Harrison joined Solyndra after serving as CEO of Numonyx BV, an
Intel-backed company that  made flash drives and was acquired by
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  of Boise,  Idaho , in February 2010.  While Solyndra had said it would use both its old and new
factories, Harrison decided to keep only the new one. It was a
“clear, logical, obvious business choice to lower our average
costs in a very competitive environment,” he told reporters
during his July 21 visit to Washington to reassure lawmakers.  Lego Blocks  Harrison made a salesman’s pitch for Solyndra’s easy-to-
install cylinders.  “It snaps together,” he told reporters. “No tools. No
screws. Think of Lego blocks snapping together.”  With approximately 11 billion square miles of commercial-
building rooftops globally, the market for its thin film panels
was “huge and growing,” Harrison said.  In February, Harrison and Solyndra had talked the Energy
Department into accepting a refinancing that put taxpayers
behind new investors in an effort to keep the company going.  On Aug. 30, the Energy Department rejected a request by
Harrison and Solyndra’s investors for another refinancing. The
next day, Harrison told employees Solyndra was shutting down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  