-- 
Metal Price Drop Attracts Buying by South Korea State Agency

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-22T05:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/south-korean-agency-to-boost-metals-buying-as-prices-drop.html
South Korea ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
consumer of copper, plans to boost metals purchases to build up
stockpiles after prices dropped, according to the state
purchasing agency.  The Public Procurement Service, which manages strategic
commodities, bought about 26,000 metric tons including copper
and aluminum between January and August, falling short of an
original plan, Im Byeong Cheol, director of commodity stockpile
division, said in an interview yesterday. The agency’s full-year
target is 56,000 tons, he said, without elaborating.  Copper, used in wires, has dropped 21 percent from an all-
time high $10,190 a ton in February, entering a so-called  bear
market , on concerns that a slowing U.S. economy and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt woes will damp demand. Chinese state buying of
raw materials for stockpiling in the first half of 2009 helped
lift commodity prices, with copper and zinc doubling that year.  “For a state agency, it would be good to buy whenever
prices dip,” said Park Jong Beom, head of global market sales
at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in  Seoul . “Metals are hard hit by
concerns about the economic slowdown and prices do not seem to
be able to recover to previous highs any time soon.”  The service released 470 billion won ($405 million) worth
of metals from stockpiles in the first eight months, exceeding a
full-year plan of 430 billion won, as high prices damped buying,
Im said. The agency supplied copper at 2 percent below market
prices earlier this year to help ease cost burden for small-and-
medium sized companies and curb inflation.  ‘Appropriate’ Prices  Copper may decline to as low as $7,000 on concern global
economic growth will slow, Im said, without giving a timeframe.
Copper below $8,000 levels and aluminum below $3,000 is
“appropriate” for buying, he said.  “When the economy is not good and raw material prices
fall, that’s good time to build up stocks because we can better
meet demand from end-users when the economy turns around
later,” Im said at his office in Daejeon.  Three-month delivery copper on the London Metal Exchange
fell as much as 3.4 percent to $8,020 a ton and traded $8,045 a
ton by 2:44 p.m. in Seoul. Aluminum decreased 1.5 percent to
$2,284 a ton. The  LMEX London Metals Index (LMEX)  has lost 13 percent
this year.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its  China  growth
estimates for this year and next, the Washington-based lender
said on Sept. 20. China is the world’s top consumer of copper.
The IMF also lowered its growth forecast for the U.S.  The Service has 2,000 to 3,000 small- and medium-sized
companies as customers and meets about 8 percent of the
country’s metals demand. Its purchase prices often set a
regional benchmark.  The agency said in February it will boost copper reserves
to 80 days of import demand by 2015 from the previous 60-day
target. Tin reserves will also be increased, while the targets
for aluminum and lead holdings have been reduced, it said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  