-- 
South Korea Plans Carbon Law as Companies Oppose $5 Billion Cost

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-09-22T03:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/south-korea-plans-carbon-law-as-companies-oppose-5-billion-cost.html
South Korea  aims to pass a law this
year to help start carbon dioxide emissions trading by 2015, a
plan opposed by manufacturers who say it will increase costs and
make exports less competitive globally.  The National Assembly is expected to pass by December a
bill for the proposed emission trading scheme, or ETS, Park Chun
Kyoo, director general of the   Presidential Committee on Green
Growth  overseeing climate change policy, said in an interview.  “Prospects for the bill appear quite healthy as it has
backing from the ruling and opposition parties,” said Victoria
Cuming, senior analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  The country will become the third in Asia Pacific to tax
polluters after  Australia  and  New Zealand . South Korea has
pledged a 30 percent reduction in emissions from expected levels
by 2020 and offered tax breaks to companies including Posco and
Samsung Electronics Co. to pollute less and use renewable energy.  South Korea is taking a “step by step” approach to
implement the ETS,’’ Park, 47, said Sept. 20 in his office in
 Seoul . “We hope to give a clear signal to companies that our
binding commitments will continue.”  Australia plans to impose a price on emissions from next
July before shifting to a cap-and-trade system three years
later. New Zealand already has an emissions trading program in
place.  The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, which counts
steelmaker  Posco (005490)  and Samsung Electronics among its 120,000
members, and  Federation of Korean Industries  have asked the
government to delay implementing the plan on concern that higher
costs will result in loss of market share to rivals from
countries that don’t either tax or cap emissions.  $5 Billion Cost  Companies may face an additional 5.6 trillion won ($5
billion) of costs if ETS is implemented, according to data from
state-owned  Korea Energy Management Corp. , which is tasked with
emissions reduction and promoting renewable energy. Major
industries including steel and petrochemicals stand to lose
about 12 trillion won of sales, according to the  Korea Economic
Research Institute , a private research organization.  South Korea, the world’s ninth-largest greenhouse gas
emitter, announced its voluntary goal to reduce green-house gas
emissions blamed for global warming at Copenhagen in December
2009. The following year the government introduced a plan to set
targets for the biggest polluters.  The government is in talks with 471 polluters ranging from
factories, buildings and livestock farms that produce at least
25,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide a year to impose reduction
targets by the end of September.  These emitters  generate about
60 percent of the country’s overall greenhouse gas emissions.  ‘Binding Commitments’  “We will continue our binding commitments domestically to
meet our pledges to the world,” Park said. South Korea’s
emissions may fall after peaking in 2014 if the nation pursues
its reduction target by 2020, he said.  The government has been providing tax and financial
incentives to encourage companies to cut their emissions,
including feed in tariff since 2002, he said. It is spending 1
trillion won this year on  renewable energy , including the 395
billion won for feed in tariffs, or preferential payments, to
solar, wind and other renewable energy projects.  The tariffs will be replaced with a 2 percent renewable
portfolio standard, or RPS, starting 2012. The country’s 14
power generators and other energy producers would be required to
derive a fixed quota of their energy output from renewable
sources, including solar and wind.  Renewable Energy  The quota will be raised to 10 percent by 2020, which will
help create demand for renewable-energy equal to 4.1 trillion
won in 2012 and 54 trillion won by 2020, according to government
estimates.  The feed in tariff program has prompted some polluters to
buy technologies from advanced countries rather than developing
their own, Park said.  South Korea, which imports 96 percent of its energy need,
aims to raise its  energy supply  from solar, wind and other
renewable sources to 11 percent of overall energy consumption by
2030 from an estimated 2.62 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  