-- 
South Africa Scores 12 Tries to Defeat Namibia 87-0 in Rugby’s World Cup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-22T16:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/south-africa-beats-namibia-in-rugby-world-cup-as-habana-scores-try-record.html
Defending champion  South Africa 
scored 12 tries yesterday to defeat Namibia 87-0, the largest
margin of victory at this year’s Rugby  World Cup .  The Springboks’  Bryan Habana  set his country’s try-scoring
record in the first half. Gio Aplon, Juan de Jongh and Francois
Hougaard all touched down twice, and Morne Steyn accounted for
20 points with a try, a penalty and 6 conversions at North
Harbour Stadium in Auckland.  South Africa is atop Pool D with 14 points after three
games, with Samoa in second in the group with 6 after two
matches. Wales and Fiji both have 5 points, with Namibia still
without a point. Habana scored in the 23rd minute to reach 39
tries, surpassing Joost van der Westhuizen to become South
Africa’s all-time try leader. The Springboks also tied their
World Cup record of 10 straight wins.  “We’re making progress,” captain  John Smit  said. “The
first 40 minutes, we got sucked into a few bad habits. We had to
refocus at halftime. We got a little bit more reward in the
second half.”  Today,  Australia  takes on the U.S. in Wellington. It’s the
seventh time the two sides have played a Test, and the
Australians have won by an average of 32 points. The Wallabies,
looking to recover from a 15-6 loss to Ireland, won their most
recent World Cup match with the Eagles 55-19 in 1999. That was
the most points the Americans have scored against the
Australians.  By losing to Ireland, Australia set itself up to meet South
Africa in the quarterfinals.  Yesterday, the Springboks handed  Namibia  its 14th World Cup
defeat in a row.  Opened Scoring  South Africa opened the scoring with a fourth-minute
penalty kick by Steyn. Aplon went over two minutes later.  Habana scored on a 39-meter (43-yard) run and then referee
George Clancy awarded a penalty try after several infractions by
the Namibian pack as South Africa powered forward. Jaque Fourie
added a try in the 37th minute.  “We just made too many mistakes and a good side like the
Boks are just going to cut you apart,” Namibia captain Jacques
Burger said. “We’re very disappointed. We had to go out there
and live off the scraps and any opportunity we got score points.
Unfortunately we couldn’t do that.”  The Springboks’ 31-0 halftime lead was their largest-ever
in a World Cup match.  In the second half, South Africa was able to take advantage
of Namibia’s tired squad, and Frans Steyn touched down in the
48th minute as the match began to get away from the underdogs.  Steyn Scores  Morne Steyn touched down in the 60th minute, with Aplon
scoring again four minutes later to join Adriaan Richter,
 Bakkies Botha , Chester Williams and Habana as Springboks scoring
more than one try on their World Cup debut.  Hougaard touched down in the 67th minute, and would later
close the scoring in the 79th. In between, De Jongh got his
second and Danie Rossouw scored in the 77th minute.  “In a World Cup you’re going to get different types of
opposition,” South Africa’s Smit said. “It’s about where you
can go from your own standards and what you can improve on. We
needed the game time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  