-- 
South African Central Bank’s Marcus Says No End in Sight For Global Crisis

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-23T07:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/south-africa-s-marcus-says-no-end-in-sight-to-global-crisis.html
South African Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said there’s “no end in sight” for the global
financial crisis after stocks and currencies plunged around the
world yesterday.  “We are meeting on a day that is probably going to go down
in history as one of the worst in global markets,” Marcus said
in a speech in Midrand, near Johannesburg, yesterday. “Around
the world there has been what they call blood on the floor.”  South Africa ’s central bank left its benchmark lending rate
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent yesterday to help
support economic growth while curbing price pressures that may
result from a weakening rand. Investors dumped riskier, emerging
market assets as the global recovery faltered, pushing the rand
down as much as 5.4 percent to 8.3401 against the dollar
yesterday.  The rand depreciated for a third day against the dollar,
losing as much as 4.5 percent to 8.6185 per dollar, the weakest
intraday level since May 2009, and traded 0.3 percent down at
8.2726 at 8:54 a.m. in Johannesburg.  “It is as close to what you would be able to compare with
the Great Depression,” Marcus said. “The challenges going
forward are enormous. And there is no end in sight.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 4.2 percent
yesterday, pushing the index below the lowest close of the year.
The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds dropped to a record low
as investors sold riskier assets for higher-rated securities.  ‘Act Appropriately’  Weak global demand threatens growth in  Africa ’s biggest
economy, which expanded at an annualized 1.3 percent in the
second quarter, the slowest pace in almost two years, according
to the statistics office. Central banks in  Turkey ,  Brazil  and
 Switzerland  have cut  interest rates  to support their economies.  The Monetary Policy Committee had a “substantial”
discussion about cutting interest rates today and the bank will
“act appropriately” if it needs to shield the economy from the
global crisis, Marcus said after announcing the rate decision.
The MPC cut its forecast for economic growth this year to 3.2
percent from 3.7 percent.  At the same time price pressures are rising. Inflation was
unchanged at a 15-month high of 5.3 percent in August, the
statistics office said in a report on Sept. 21. The inflation
rate will probably breach the 6 percent upper end of the target
band in the fourth quarter and peak at about 6.2 percent in the
second quarter of 2012, Marcus said.  “This combination of declining growth and rising inflation
poses a challenge to monetary policy going forward, and is a
feature being experienced in a number of emerging markets,”
Marcus said in the MPC statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  