-- 
Steps to Stem Won Swings Working ‘Well’: Bahk

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-23T01:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/south-korea-s-bahk-says-steps-to-stem-won-swings-working-well-.html
South Korea  pledged to combat
“herd behavior” in financial markets as the won headed for its
biggest weekly decline against the dollar since 2010.  “If there’s excessive movement in the exchange rate, the
Korean government is willing to intervene to mitigate the
pace,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in an interview
yesterday. The ministry said in a statement today after an
emergency meeting in  Seoul  with central bank officials that
“the government and the central bank agreed that herd behavior
in engaging in one-way bets has been excessive.”  The won slumped for a fifth straight day, joining emerging
market currencies from  Brazil ’s real to  South Africa ’s rand in
tumbling this week as investors sought a haven in the  U.S.
dollar . Six members of the Group of 20, whose finance chiefs are
meeting in Washington, urged “decisive action to support
growth, confidence and credibility” as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis threatens to infect the global banking system.  Officials plan to discuss the won with major exporters and
importers including Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of semiconductors, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the
nation’s top automaker, said Eun Sung Soo, a director general at
the  finance ministry .  South Korea has intensified efforts to smooth currency
moves after turmoil in financial markets worldwide prompted
foreign investors to flee the won.  Countermeasures Used  Authorities tightened currency-forward positions on July 1
and imposed a levy on non-deposit foreign-currency liabilities
held by domestic and foreign banks beginning Aug. 1, with short-
term debt facing higher charges. South  Korea  also prohibited
financial companies from buying foreign-currency bonds sold for
domestic use.  “The countermeasures worked out pretty well so far,” for
South Korea, Bahk said in yesterday’s interview in Washington,
where he’s attending the G-20 gathering and annual meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank . “We do not
consider any further introduction of countermeasures at the
moment.”  The won fell 0.7 percent to 1,187.78 against the dollar as
of 9:15 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi stock index fell 3.7 percent.  Stocks sank yesterday in  New York , dragging a gauge of
global equities into a bear market, and 10-year U.S. Treasury
yields tumbled to a record low amid concern the European debt
crisis and U.S. unemployment would push developed economies into
a recession.  Biggest Risk  Volatility in capital flows, in addition to foreign-
 exchange rate  moves, poses the biggest risk to the economic
outlook for South Korea, said Bahk, 56.  “Because the uncertainties that loom in the financial
markets are just so large at the moment, rather than taking
additional measures, we would have to wait and see whether, if
at all,” additional steps are needed, he said.  South Korean authorities will closely monitor financial
markets at home and abroad and “act in real time against any
unusual symptoms,” the finance ministry said today. “Unusual
moves and factors disturbing the financial and currency markets
should be countered actively whenever needed.”  Bahk, a Harvard-educated former bureaucrat who was
previously the labor minister, also said there are no plans to
lower the nation’s economic growth forecast from the 4.5 percent
expansion seen this year. He added that risks now are greater
than in June when the government announced those estimates and
that he will monitor the global situation closely.  Korea Resilient  “Although there is a looming downside risk in the global
economy, we do not believe that the impact on the Korean economy
will be significant,” Bahk said. “As of right now, we don’t
believe that the economy is in a situation in which we would
have to take action for a downgrade in our expectations.”  The  Bank of Korea  held its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate at 3.25 percent this month, joining other Asian central
banks in keeping borrowing costs unchanged as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery cloud the outlook for the
region’s exports. South Korea will have to eventually
“normalize” monetary policy to fight inflation unless the
global economy returns to recession, Governor Kim Choong Soo
said last month.  Exports continue to drive the economy, expanding a revised
25.9 percent in August, while industrial production rose 3.8
percent from a year earlier in July. South Korea’s unemployment
rate fell to a three-year low in August as the economy’s
expansion boosted hiring in the service sectors.  2012 Outlook  President  Lee Myung Bak  said in an interview in New York
yesterday that “we’re going to have to wait a little bit longer
to see the figures coming in after the fourth quarter this year
in order for Korea to predict how we’re going to perform next
year.”  Sustained job growth has been fueling inflation exceeding
the central bank’s target since January, prompting the bank to
raise the benchmark  interest rate  three times this year. Kim
said this month the central bank may not be able to resume rate
increases until “external” factors such as Europe’s debt
crisis look to be under control.  Consumer prices in South Korea rose 5.3 percent last month
from a year earlier, the biggest gain in three years. Inflation
will moderate going forward, Bahk said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  Washington  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  