-- 
Spanish Home Mortgages Decline Most on Record as Bad Loans Surge

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-22T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/spanish-home-mortgages-decline-most-on-record-as-bad-loans-surge.html
The number of Spanish mortgages
issued for home purchases fell by the most on record in July as
growth slowed and the European debt crisis pushed up the
country’s borrowing costs.  The number of home loans fell 47 percent from a year
earlier, the most since the series began in 2004, after a 42.4
percent drop in June, the National Statistics Institute said in
an e-mailed statement today in  Madrid . Total capital lent on all
mortgages fell 48.3 percent, it said.  Spain is working through an excess of 700,000 unsold homes
left over since a real-estate crash in 2008 that sparked the
worst recession in 60 years. The highest  unemployment rate  in
 Europe , at 21 percent, is crimping demand for homes while banks
are reining in lending amid a surge in bad loans and higher
borrowing costs.  The average price of houses and apartments declined for the
13th quarter, by 6.8 percent, in the three months through June
from a year earlier, the National Statistics Institute in Madrid
said on Sept. 15.  As part of efforts to reduce the stock of unsold homes, the
government has lowered value-added tax on new homes to 4 percent
from 8 percent for the remaining four months of the year. The
move is the second attempt to spur purchases with tax incentives
after a plan to give Spaniards a year to buy homes and lock in
tax breaks prompted an eight-month increase in home purchases.  Bad Loans  Home transactions have fallen since the incentives expired,
declining 40.8 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter, according to the Ministry of Public Works and Housing.  Defaults as a proportion of total lending at Spanish banks
rose in July to the highest in 17 years as a slowing economy
made it harder for clients to repay loans. The bad loans ratio
rose to 6.94 percent, the highest level since 1994, from 6.69
percent in June, the Bank of  Spain  said on Sept. 19.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Sept. 14
that Spain might miss its 1.3 percent growth target this year
because of the “situation of financial tension and economic
uncertainty, mainly because of  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  