-- 
Stada Plunges a Second Day on Writedown of Serbian Bills

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-09-22T15:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/stada-drops-as-much-as-7-7-falls-for-second-day-on-writedown.html
Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  plunged a
second day in Frankfurt trading after the German generic-drug
maker wrote down 97 million euros ($131.4 million) in unpaid
bills from Serbian pharmaceutical wholesalers.  The writedown hurts Stada executives’ credibility with
investors, because the Bad Vilbel-based company gave no hint
last month of problems in  Serbia  when asked by analysts on the
second-quarter earnings conference call, said David Adlington,
an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .  The stock is now so cheap that Stada may be a takeover
target, Adlington said. The market value plus net debt is 5.6
times next year’s estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, while acquirers have paid 10 to
14 times profit over the past five years, he said.  “Investor confidence in the management team is likely to
be significantly dented,” Adlington wrote in a report today.
“Clearly this may create an opportunity for a third party to
take advantage of this discount.” He has an “overweight”
rating on the stock.  Stada fell 1.78 euros, or 9.5 percent, to close at 17.01
euros at 5:30 p.m., giving the company a market value of 1
billion euros. The stock plunged 19 percent yesterday, the
biggest drop in more than three years.  The company first learned of the developments after a
meeting of the supervisory board of the Serbian subsidiary
Hemofarm A.D. on Sept. 20, Markus Metzger, a spokesman for
Stada, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Increased Payment Deadlines  Due to “growing liquidity bottlenecks” at the Serbian
national Health Care Fund and among wholesalers, payment
deadlines were increased, Metzger said. This meant the company
only knew a few days before whether it would receive the
outstanding receivables, he said.  “The demand situation for Hemofarm products in the local
Serbian market is still stable, as are our own business
operations there,” he said.  Metzger declined to make the company’s chief financial
officer available for comment.  Bankhaus Metzler cut the shares to “sell” from “buy,”
while Silvia Quandt Research lowered it to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Eastern  Europe   Stada also announced a 29.5 million-euro writedown on
unpaid Serbian bills last year. The company expanded in eastern
Europe from 2005 to 2007, just before currencies in the region
plunged and economies weakened. Its 480 million-euro acquisition
of Serbia’s Hemofarm Koncern AD in 2006 was the company’s
biggest.  Stada is an unlikely takeover target because it offers “no
attractive assets that could add growth to an acquirer,” said
Martin Brunninger, an analyst at Nomura Equity Research who has
a “reduce” rating on the stock. Pharmacists also hold 30
percent of the company’s share capital, which “represents a
high takeover hurdle,” he wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 