-- 
Staples to Offer Martha Stewart Products to Appeal to Women

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-22T17:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/staples-to-sell-martha-stewart-line-of-products-in-bid-to-appeal-to-women.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the world’s largest
office-supply chain, partnered with  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc. to offer a line of home office items to appeal
more to women customers.  The line, made by  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY) , will include 300
products and be branded Martha Stewart Home Office, the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based retailer said today in a
statement. The items will be offered exclusively at Staples
locations in the U.S. and Canada beginning in early 2012.  Staples has been adding electronics, such as Amazon.com
Inc.’s Kindle digital reader, and expanding services to boost
revenue amid a sporadic economic recovery that has muted
spending by businesses. The new line will be targeted at women,
who make up about 60 percent of Staples’ in-store customers,
said Demos Parneros, the company’s president of U.S. retail.  “There will be really unusual labeling systems and very
excellent notebooks,” Martha Stewart said in a telephone
interview. “It also has a lot of wonderful color, which has
been lacking in a lot of the home organizational product
lines.”  The addition of Martha Stewart-branded products will offer
Staples differentiation from competitors  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  without having a large effect on overall sales,
said  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres,
Missouri, who recommends buying Staples shares.  “Through an investor’s lens, it’s not big enough to
matter,” he said.  Staples will join Home Depot Inc., Macy’s Inc. and PetSmart
Inc. in selling Martha Stewart-branded items.  Staples rose 3 cents to $13.48 at 1:04 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares sank 41 percent
this year before today. Martha Stewart Living dropped 13 cents,
or 4 percent, to $3.17. Avery Dennison lost 83 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $25.09.  In the first half of the year, sales at Staples rose 3.5
percent to $12 billion, and net income gained 18 percent to
$374.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  