-- 
Supercommittee Members Debate Lowering Corporate Tax Rates

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/supercommittee-members-agree-on-lower-corporate-taxes-differ-over-method.html
Lawmakers from both parties on the
deficit-reduction supercommittee said they agree the U.S.
corporate tax rate should be lowered from its current maximum of
35 percent.  There was little agreement at the panel meeting today on
which benefits in the  tax code  should be eliminated or curbed to
pay for lowering the corporate rate. Also, the lawmakers didn’t
indicate that the panel would produce legislation by Nov. 23
that would push corporate rates lower.  “Most people do agree that such high tax rates make the
United States a less attractive place in which to do business,”
said Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, the Democratic co-
chairman of the panel. “Instead of making and improving their
widgets or hiring new people,” she said, businesses “spend too
much time and effort devising business strategies aimed simply
at tax avoidance.”  The panel’s first hearing on  tax policy  reflected a broader
debate between Democrats and Republicans over the role of
revenue in reducing the  U.S. budget deficit . Representative
 James Clyburn , a South Carolina Democrat, urged enacting new
taxes for millionaires while the panel’s Republican co-chairman,
Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, warned against new
taxes.  Tax Increase ‘Consequences’  If lawmakers on the supercommittee “choose to solely or
primarily address our debt crisis by increasing the nation’s tax
burden, I fear the consequences,” Hensarling said. “The
ability, wisdom and consequences of addressing our debt crisis
through tax increases will continue to constitute a rigorous
debate by our committee.”  Congress set up the 12-member bipartisan supercommittee in
August in legislation that resolved a standoff over raising the
federal debt limit. The panel was instructed to create a 10-year
plan to cut at least $1.5 trillion from the  budget deficit  by
Nov. 23. The law requires automatic, across-the-board spending
cuts if Congress doesn’t pass a plan.  The hearing provided a forum to debate raising taxes for
the wealthiest Americans. Representative Xavier Becerra, a
California Democrat, pressed Tom Barthold, the chief of staff of
the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, on how it was
possible under the tax code for billionaire  Warren Buffett  to
pay taxes at a lower rate than his secretary, as he has stated.  Buffett’s Taxes  In an essay published last month in the New York Times,
Buffett, the 81-year-old chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., wrote that his federal tax bill last
year was $6.93 million, or 17.4 percent of his taxable income.
President  Barack Obama  has asked Congress to enact the so-called
“Buffett rule,” which would ensure that those earning more
than $1 million a year would pay taxes at a rate similar to what
middle-income Americans pay.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, countered
that Americans with incomes between $50,000 and $75,000 pay an
average tax rate of 12 percent while those who earn more than $1
million pay an average 23 percent rate.  “Frankly, Mr. Buffett needs to give his secretary a
raise,” said Camp, who is the chairman of the tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee.  Lawmakers also discussed broadly how the tax code could be
revised to eliminate tax benefits, also known as tax
expenditures. Murray said the panel needs to spend more time
discussing whether second homes should be eligible for the
mortgage interest deduction and whether some charitable
deductions should be curbed.  “We’ve had an intense discussion here about earmarks,”
she said. “We’ve not had an intense discussion about these tax
expenditures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  