-- 
VW-Suzuki Feud Escalates as Honor ‘Disparaged’

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-22T14:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/suzuki-demands-volkswagen-retract-allegation-of-infringement-1-.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, stood by its accusation that  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) 
breached a partnership agreement, rejecting the Japanese
company’s calls to restore its “honor.”  Suzuki has to “correct” an alleged contract violation
stemming from its purchase of engines from  Fiat SpA (F) , VW said
today in an e-mailed statement. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based
company was responding to Suzuki’s demand earlier today to
retract the accusation.  “I can’t conceive how this conflict can possibly be
resolved,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Commerzbank AG who recommends buying VW shares. “The chances
are growing now that the partnership accord will be dissolved.”  Suzuki wants to end the 20-month-old carmaking alliance
after VW’s 222.5 billion yen ($2.9 billion) investment failed to
yield a single project. The relationship has escalated into a
public feud after the German carmaker, which owns 19.9 percent
of Suzuki, said it could influence decisions at the Japanese
manufacturer.  “Suzuki never breached” the agreement by buying  diesel
engines  from Fiat, Chairman  Osamu Suzuki  said in a separate
statement today. The allegation had “significantly disparaged
Suzuki’s honor.”  In response, VW said that it failed to understand how
adhering to contractually defined rights can be defamatory.  “From Volkswagen’s perspective, every effort has been made
from the start to continue the partnership,” the company said
in the statement.  Engine Comparison  The Hamamatsu, Japan-based automaker had discussed the
reasons for deciding against VW’s engines with the automaker in
January, it said today. Suzuki called on VW to compare and test
the engines against Fiat’s as a “remedial action.”  Suzuki sent an official complaint to VW Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn . The German manufacturer confirmed
that the letter was received, though urged such “internal
exchanges” to remain confidential.  “Such theatrical actions are unhelpful in the current
situation,” VW said.  VW and Suzuki have been at odds since the German carmaker
said in its annual report published in March that it could
“significantly influence financial and operating policy
decisions” at Suzuki, describing the Japanese company as an
“associate.”  Indian Plans  The Japanese automaker, which owns 1.49 percent of VW,
plans to sell its holdings if the tie-up ends, the company said
in a Sept. 12 statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. VW has said
it doesn’t plan to sell or reduce its stake in Suzuki.  The dispute has brought to a halt the company’s efforts to
form an operational alliance. The partnership was meant to
combine Suzuki’s leading position in  India , Asia’s second-
fastest growing major economy, with VW’s global reach as the
world’s third-biggest carmaker.  “It wouldn’t be the end of the world for VW if that
partnership fails,” said Schwarz. “VW has its own capacities
in India. They’re making their own models there and market share
is growing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  