-- 
Swiss Must Save UBS’s Bonus Pool or Die Trying: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-09-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/swiss-must-save-ubs-bonus-pool-or-die-trying-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Ever since  UBS AG (UBSN)  disclosed its
latest gigantic loss, due to a supposedly rogue trader in
 London , the financial press has been obsessed with digging out
trivial details, such as what the scandal means for the future
of global banking regulation and whether it will cost UBS Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  his job.  Then there’s the real story. Inside UBS’s vast investment-
banking operation, we can pretty well guess there’s only one
question that matters: “Does this affect my pay?” The short
answer is it might. Only it doesn’t have to be this way.  On Sept. 19, Bloomberg News published an article under the
headline, “UBS Bonuses at Risk as $2.3 Billion Trading Loss
Erases Profit.” As you can see, this year’s UBS bonus pool
isn’t doomed, per se. It’s “at risk.” And where there’s a risk
there’s always a way. What the UBS bankers need is a plan to
ensure that the people who bear this loss are people other than
themselves.  Luckily, I have prepared one. To save the UBS bonus pool,
UBS’s leaders must persuade the people of  Switzerland  to eat the
losses the company is blaming on Kweku Adoboli, and to do so
with joy in their hearts. Impossible, you say? Consider the
following talking points:  No. 1: Reimbursing UBS for the $2.3 billion would be an
investment in the country’s future.  Surely it will cost Swiss taxpayers much more money later
if they skip paying this small ante now. UBS’s writedowns during
the last financial crisis topped 50 billion francs ($56
billion).  To keep UBS  afloat , the Swiss government put up 6 billion
francs of bailout dough and took almost 40 billion francs of
rotting assets off the company’s books. Better for the Swiss to
nip these new “rogue trading” losses in the bud while they
can.  No. 2: If the bankers don’t get their bonuses, the best and
brightest UBS employees will leave for competitors.  Somebody has to stick around to clean up the mess being
pinned on Adoboli. The Swiss must decide: Do they really want
all of UBS’s best talent to leave for National Bank of  Greece ?
Or worse, Deutsche Bank? This, too, would inevitably lead to
even bigger losses later, which brings us to our next point.  No. 3: UBS isn’t actually a bank.  The Swiss government is the bank here, not UBS. In reality
UBS is an off-balance-sheet SIV, or structured-investment
vehicle, backed by the Swiss government. UBS shareholders and
employees are the SIV’s “first-loss holders,” as they’re known
in the trade. (UBS bondholders, as we all know, are prohibited
by international law from incurring losses.)  Normally the first-loss holders would exist to serve as a
buffer, like swampland absorbing the  storm surge  from a
hurricane, except these aren’t normal times. The better off the
first-loss holders are, the safer the world will perceive UBS to
be. So when the Swiss people rescue the UBS bonuses, what
they’re doing is restoring the first-loss cushion to its
rightfully bloated condition. And by doing so they’re saving
themselves.  No. 4: Rescuing the bonus pool promotes Swiss
competitiveness.  Anyone with even a passing knowledge of international debt
markets knows that the price of Swiss  government bonds  has
become ludicrously expensive. The flight into Swiss francs
earlier this year has made life miserable for Swiss exporters. A
standard-issue  Rolex  costs more than a  five-bedroom house  in
 Detroit .  Viewed in that light, it could reasonably be argued that
UBS isn’t losing anywhere near enough money to meet Swiss
society’s needs. UBS finished last year with $1.4 trillion of
assets, almost triple the size of Switzerland’s $524 billion
annual gross domestic product.  Rather than purchasing unlimited quantities of foreign
currencies to stop the franc from strengthening, a more
efficient approach would be to tell the world that UBS is in
grave danger of failing and that the Swiss people are eager to
pay UBS bankers whatever bonus money is needed to turn the
government’s budget surplus into a crippling deficit. With one
bold gesture, the franc would plunge to new depths. Yields on
Swiss government bonds would soar. And all of Switzerland would
be richer for it.  No. 5: This is a matter of fairness.  When poor people lose their money, it’s a tragedy. There
are so many of them, and they had so little to start with,
there’s not much government can do, unlike with the wealthy.  So the question must be answered: Is it really fair that
hundreds of high-net-worth UBS professionals should pay for the
alleged sins of a lone 31-year-old Ghanaian trader, just because
they failed collectively to oversee him?  The U.S. let  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  pay more
than $400 million in employee bonuses after that company’s $182
billion government bailout. Shouldn’t UBS bankers have available
to them the same kind of social safety net that exists for
others of their class? Discuss.  No. 6: The fundamentals of capitalism are at stake.  To paraphrase a line from AIG’s rescue plea, government
backstops are the oxygen of the free-enterprise system. Without
the promise of protection against life’s adversities, the
fundamentals of capitalism are undermined, and we would all be
on the  road to serfdom .  The failure of the UBS bonus pool at a time of major global
and economic instability would exacerbate the challenge of
reigniting  consumer confidence . Because Swiss banking has
changed greatly in character over the last decade -- from just a
basic provision of tax-evasion services to a vehicle for
massively leveraged speculative wagering -- the effects of
disrupting the industry are wide-ranging and significant.  The message for Switzerland is simple: You can’t fix the
UBS bonus pool unless you save it first. I’m confident the Swiss
will do the right thing.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 