-- 
Swiss Stocks Slump as Federal Reserve Sees Risks to U.S. Economy

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-22T15:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/swiss-stocks-sink-as-federal-reserve-sees-risks-to-u-s-economy-ubs-drops.html
Swiss stocks tumbled the most in
two weeks after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled “significant
downside risks” to the world’s largest economy.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the nation’s second-largest bank,
 UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and Roche AG led declines in the  Swiss Market
Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively traded companies.  The SMI lost 186.86, or 3.4 percent, to 5,288.48 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, the biggest drop since Sept. 5. The
gauge has tumbled 21 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 as
the Swiss franc’s strength curbed exports and concern mounted
that the global economic recovery is stalling. The broader Swiss
Performance Index retreated 3.5 percent today.  “We have negative headwinds that are absolutely massive,”
Patrick Legland, the Paris-based head of research at Societe
Generale SA, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Francine Lacqua in  London . “There’s a very powerful slowdown
and maybe a recession for Europe and the U.S.”  The Fed said it will replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort
to reduce borrowing costs further and counter “significant
downside risks to the economic outlook, including strains in
global financial markets.”  The central bank will buy securities with maturities of 6
to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less, the Federal Open Market
Committee said late yesterday after a two-day meeting. The
action “should put downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the FOMC said.  Greek Budget  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government said it
will speed up budget cuts, targeting civil servants’ wages and
pensioners to keep emergency loans flowing and avoid default,
following two rounds of talks with the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.   Credit Suisse lost 6.4 percent to 20.95 Swiss francs. UBS,
the biggest Swiss bank, declined 6.1 percent to 9.66 francs.
Drugmaker Roche retreated 2.5 percent to 135.40 francs and
Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, lost 1.7 percent to
48.37 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  