-- 
U.K. Export Order Book Declines to Lowest in a Year, CBI Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-22T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-k-export-order-book-declines-to-lowest-in-a-year-cbi-says.html
A U.K. index of factory export
orders dropped to the lowest level since October this month, led
by consumer-goods companies, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said.  The export gauge declined to minus 12 from zero in August,
the U.K.’s biggest  business lobby  said today in London. A
measure of total orders fell to minus 9 from 1. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists was minus
5. The CBI said both measures remain above their long-term
averages.  Manufacturers are facing headwinds from a deteriorating
outlook for global growth, even as a weaker pound helps stoke
demand for British products abroad. With the recovery also under
pressure from the government’s budget cuts, most  Bank of England 
policy makers are considering a second round of asset purchases
to support the economy, according to the minutes of their
September decision published yesterday.  “Manufacturers report some slackening of demand this month
following the volatility in financial markets and the slowdown
in growth in our major trading partners,” CBI Chief Economic
Adviser Ian McCafferty said. “Nevertheless, they remain
optimistic that production will continue to grow over the coming
three months.”  The CBI’s measure of expectations for output prices rose to
13 from 9, the highest in three months, and a gauge of stocks
increased to 21 to 14. An index of output volume dropped to 9
from 13.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 and 2012
global growth forecasts this week and predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis. It
lowered its projections for the U.K. to 1.1 percent in 2011 and
1.6 percent in 2012.  More Stimulus  The Bank of England held its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month, and its target for asset
purchases at 200 billion pounds ($309 billion). Most officials
say it’s “increasingly probable” that more asset purchases
will be needed to support the recovery.  The pound has dropped about 25 percent since the start of
2007 on a trade-weighted basis. Yesterday’s Bank of England
minutes pushed the currency to an eight-month low, and sterling
traded at $1.5451 as of 9:50 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  