-- 
U.K. Banks Need to Wall Off Retail Banking, Vickers Says

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-22T23:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-k-banks-need-to-wall-off-retail-banking-vickers-says.html
U.K. banks need to insulate their
retail operations from risky investment-banking activities to
guard against economic panics, said  John Vickers , chairman of
the country’s Independent Commission on Banking.  “Banking is risky,” Vickers said today on a panel hosted
by New York University’s Stern School of Business. Those risks
“should sit with investors, not the taxpayers. Nor should they
sit with retail depositors,” he said.  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
pledged to implement by 2019 recommendations published last week
by the ICB. The proposals are aimed at shielding customers and
taxpayers from another financial crisis. The plans, also known
as ring fencing, could cost the industry as much 7 billion
pounds ($11 billion).  “Ring-fencing retains many of the synergies of a broad
banking group, while providing insulation for vital economic
functions,” said Vickers, 53, a former chief economist for the
 Bank of England . He also said his proposal will not impede
economic recovery.  U.K. investment banks face a ratings cut if the ICB
proposal that lenders insulate their consumer units is
implemented,  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept. 14.  Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and HSBC
Holdings Plc will be most affected by the plan because their
U.K. businesses would fall on different sides of the fence, S&P
said.  UBS Loss  Vickers said he didn’t reconsider his proposal or add more
safeguards when he heard about UBS AG’s $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading last week.  “We’ve gone exactly far enough,” he said. “That activity
would have been over the fence, not in the fence.”  Jes Staley, who runs  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank
and also spoke on the panel, said he prefers Vickers’ proposal
to U.S. regulations that prohibit banks from using their own
money to trade. Staley said he doesn’t believe that the New
York-based bank is too big to fail without disrupting global
markets.  “I absolutely think the FDIC could take over JPMorgan
tonight” if need be, Staley said. JPMorgan, with $2.25 trillion
in assets, is the second-largest U.S. bank behind Bank of
America Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  