-- 
U.K. Can Hide the Names of Companies Trading With Iran, Averting U.S. Law

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T12:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-k-wins-bid-to-hide-names-of-firms-trading-with-iran-avert-u-s-law.html
The U.K. won’t have to disclose the
names of British companies that applied to sell goods with
potential military uses to  Iran , after winning a case in which
it said banks are under U.S. pressure to drop them as clients.  A tribunal in London today ruled in favor of Britain’s
 Export Control Organization , which argued the disclosure of the
companies may result in them losing access to banking services.
The judgment was made in a Freedom of Information lawsuit filed
by New York-based Bloomberg News, which plans to appeal.  “There is a significant public interest in protecting
large and small firms, which trade lawfully and legitimately,
from economic harm from a form of embargo imposed by banks,
competitors, suppliers, clients and possibly foreign
governments,” tribunal Judge David Farrer said in the ruling.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a law almost a year ago
broadening the scope of sanctions against Iran to stunt its
nuclear-development program. Even before then, U.K. banks were
cutting off customers with links to Iran to avoid being targeted
by American authorities or losing permits to do business in the
U.S., according to the export agency. The ECO issues licenses to
ship supplies with dual military or civilian uses, as well as
torture equipment and radioactive material, to other countries.  “The public must not be kept in the dark about how
governments decide business licenses,” said  Matthew Winkler ,
editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News. “We continue to object to
secret evidence claiming that banks will withdraw funding for
companies if the public knew who is doing business with whom.”  BIS Denial  The lawsuit was filed following a 2009 Bloomberg News
request that the U.K.  Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills , or BIS, which oversees the export agency, release the
names of British businesses that applied to ship controlled
goods to Iran in the first half of that year. BIS denied the
request.  The government was supported in the case by evidence from
the  British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce , which said the U.S. was
interfering with legal trade. In today’s judgment, Farrer said
the possibility of U.S. meddling was “disturbing.”  “The tribunal felt some concern at the prospect of a U.K.
company, trading quite lawfully in terms of U.K., EU and
international law, suffering possibly fatal commercial damage
through the extraterritorial intervention of our closest ally,”
Farrer said.  The case tests transparency in the licensing process, the
accountability of U.K. companies and the release of information
in the public interest,  Mark Stephens , Bloomberg News’s lawyer
with Finers Stephens Innocent LLP, said last month.  Plane Crash  The Bloomberg News request was part of an investigation
into a series of Iranian air disasters that killed hundreds of
people, including a February 2003 crash in which 276 died.  Bloomberg News sought to find out whether U.K. firms were
denied licenses to legally sell civilian aircraft parts to the
country. Iranian authorities blamed the crashes on U.S.
sanctions blocking imports of aircraft parts.  The  Information Commissioner’s Office , which oversees U.K.
Freedom of Information disputes, initially backed a request from
Bloomberg News to release the information. It later reversed the
decision after the BIS filed secret third-party responses with
the ICO. The Information Commissioner didn’t tell Bloomberg News
or the public that it was considering the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  