-- 
U.S. Commercial Real Estate Prices Advance 5% in Rebound That May Stall

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-09-22T16:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-commercial-property-prices-rose-5-in-july-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial real estate prices
rose for a third straight month in July as deals for smaller
properties led a rebound that may stall as the economy slows,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index advanced 5
percent from June. It’s up 1.2 percent from a year earlier and
almost 13 percent from its post-peak low in April, the New York-
based company said in a report today.  The gains followed an increase of sales of properties that
are considered to be smaller assets and are located in areas
other than  Boston , Chicago, New York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco 
and  Washington . Turmoil in the issuance of commercial mortgage-
backed securities may limit financing for these deals, hindering
a recovery as economic growth estimates fall and the
 unemployment rate  remains higher than 9 percent, Moody’s said.  “This month’s gain is more a continuation of the bottoming
process than a harbinger of recovery,” the company said in the
report. “Slow job growth will crimp expectations for the
absorption of vacant space and for rent increases, which in turn
will constrain near-term price increases.”  Relative yields on securities tied to offices, hotels and
shopping centers have been rising as investors shun riskier
assets amid concern a Greek default may infect European lenders.
Banks have pulled back from making loans to package into bonds
as price swings erode profit margins on the deals.  CMBS Slowdown  Demand had increased for real estate outside of major
cities such as  New York  before a recent slowdown in CMBS
lending. The CMBS slump may hurt demand for non-distressed
building sales of less than $10 million in metro areas outside
U.S. cities where real estate is most sought after, Tad Philipp,
director of commercial real estate research at Moody’s, said in
a telephone interview. These deals accounted for 60 percent of
July repeat sales, Moody’s said.  “The CMBS market largely is a main source of financing for
the middle market,” Philipp said.  A gain in commercial-property values may be held back by
buyers making more conservative estimates for rent increases and
leasing amid slow job growth, according to the report.  “Price increases in the near term are likely to be earned
the old-fashioned way, by rent growth, rather than through
higher leverage or financial engineering,” Moody’s said.  Weakest Six Months  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1 percent annual
pace in the second quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the
first three months of the year, capping the weakest six months
of the recovery that began in mid-2009, according to Commerce
Department figures. The  International Monetary Fund  this week
cut its forecast for U.S. growth this year to 1.5 percent from
2.5 percent in June, citing waning confidence among consumers
and businesses and unresolved debt-reduction concerns.  Total U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, and the unemployment rate held at
9.1 percent, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.  The Moody’s index tracks repeat sales, which totaled 192 in
July. It gives all property transactions the same weighting.  CoStar, Greet Street  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) ’s National All Property Type Composite
Index climbed 1 percent in July from June, the Washington-based
real estate data provider said Sept. 13. The index was down 1.6
percent from a year earlier and is 33 percent below a peak
reached in 2007.  Green Street Advisors Inc., a real estate research company
in  Newport Beach ,  California , reported commercial property
values rose 1 percent in August from the previous month and
advanced 18 percent from a year earlier. Prices are down 9
percent from their August 2007 peak, the company said Sept. 7.  Green Street’s index is weighted by asset value and
includes deals that are in negotiation or under contract.
Moody’s tracks completed sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  