-- 
U.S. Makes Security Preparations for After Palestinian Bid at UN

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-22T21:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-makes-security-preparations-for-after-palestinian-bid-at-un.html
The U.S. has laid the groundwork
for maintaining security in the aftermath of the Palestinian bid
for statehood at the UN, including the possibility of violence.  The effort includes discussions with Gulf countries,
planning with Israeli and Palestinian security forces, and aid
to ensure the  Palestinian Authority  can pay its personnel.  The U.S. has made clear its intent to block a Palestinian
request for United Nations recognition. To avoid needing to
exercise its veto power, the U.S. has been working with Israel
to persuade members of the  Security Council  to abstain from
voting.  Within the State Department, there is concern that the
effort to knock back the Palestinian effort will create a
backlash in the  West Bank , Gaza, and the larger Arab world.  The State Department has confidence in the Palestinian
security forces, which cooperated closely and productively with
Israeli security over the past few years, said a State
Department official who was not authorized to speak publicly on
the matter.  Lt. Gen. Michael R. Moeller, the U.S. security coordinator
based in  Tel Aviv  “has been working hard with Israelis and
Palestinians,” the official said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has also worked to
ensure the Palestinian government remains solvent. She recently
sent $50 million in aid for the Palestinian Authority. She has
urged Arab states to do more to support the Palestinians
financially. Saudi Arabia has pledged $200 million to
Palestinians, the official said.  Payrolls Critical  Keeping the Palestinian Authority solvent is crucial, said
Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task Force on
Palestine, a group that advocates for a peaceful end to the
Mideast conflict.  “Whatever happens at the UN, the most important thing is
to make sure the security forces continue to get paid,” Ibish
said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to be very hard to
keep security cooperation going if people see no hope. And it’s
not free operating a security service.”  Clinton and the Secretary of Defense,  Leon Panetta , will
meet with the Gulf Cooperation Council tomorrow in  New York  and
the Israeli-Palestinian situation will be part of the
conversation. The U.S. is intent on making the GCC a central
part of the region’s ‘security architecture,’ the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  