-- 
U.S. August Leading Economic Indicators (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-22T14:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-august-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.3 percent in August to 116.2 (2004 = 100), following
a 0.6 percent increase in July and a 0.3 percent increase in
June.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“The August increase in the U.S. LEI was driven by components
measuring financial and monetary conditions which offset
substantially weaker components measuring expectations. The
growth trend in the LEI has moderated and positive and negative
contributors to the index have been roughly balanced. The
leading indicators point to rising risks and volatility, and
increasing concerns about the health of the expansion.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board:
“There is growing risk that sustained weak confidence could put
downward pressure on demand and business activity, causing the
economy to potentially dip into recession. While the chance of
that happening remains below 50-50, the odds have certainly
increased in recent months.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.1 percent in August to 103.3 (2004 = 100), following
a 0.1 percent increase in July, and a 0.2 percent increase in
June.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.3
percent in August to 110.3 (2004 = 100), following a 0.3 percent
increase in July, and a 0.3 percent increase in June.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for  unemployment insurance   Manufacturers’ new orders,  consumer goods  and materials  Index of supplier deliveries - vendor performance  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Money supply, M2  Interest rate  spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Index of consumer expectations  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, October 20,
2011 at 10 A.M. ET.  SOURCE: The Conference Board 