-- 
Initial Jobless Claims in U.S. Fell Last Week

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-22T20:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-stock-futures-drop-on-signs-global-financial-system-risks-are-growing.html
U.S. stocks slumped, giving the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  its biggest two-day decline since
December 2008, amid investors’ concern that policy makers are
running out of tools to avoid another global economic recession.  All 10 industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
retreated at least 1.8 percent as losses were led by commodity
and industrial shares.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , Caterpillar Inc. and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  dropped more than 5 percent, pacing declines in
companies most-tied to economic growth.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of
the biggest cargo airline and a proxy for the economy, tumbled
8.2 percent after cutting its profit forecast.  The S&P 500 fell 3.2 percent to 1,129.56 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, dropping 7.1 percent in four days. The Dow lost 391.01
points, or 3.5 percent, to 10,733.83, bringing its two-day
retreat to 5.9 percent. About 13.2 billion shares changed
hands on U.S. exchanges at 4:47 p.m., 54 percent more than the
three-month average, according to Bloomberg data.  “People are selling first and asking questions later,”
 David Kelly , chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “The problem is that
policy makers seem to have no clue what the solutions are. The
Fed needs to express confidence on the economy itself. I don’t
know how much further the market can go down.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 4.5 percent,
extending a drop from its May 2 high to more than 20 percent,
entering a bear market. The S&P 500 has fallen 17 percent since
April 29 amid concern about a global economic slowdown.
Benchmark indexes for the U.S., U.K., Canada,  Singapore  and New
Zealand are the only ones among 24 developed countries that
haven’t fallen at least 20 percent from their highs.  Taking a Toll  Stocks fell yesterday on the  Federal Reserve ’s assessment
that the turmoil caused by  Europe ’s crisis is taking a toll on
the economy. The Fed said it will replace $400 billion of short-
term debt with longer-term Treasuries to spur growth. Stocks
also fell as Moody’s Investors Service cut three U.S. banks.  The world is on the eve of the next financial crisis, with
sovereign debt its epicenter, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the biggest bond fund. The  European Central Bank  hasn’t put
in place a “circuit breaker” to contain the region’s debt
crisis, El-Erian, who is also Pimco’s co-chief investment
officer, said at an event in  Washington  today.  “There has been a significant increase in the financial
requirements of international intervention,” El-Erian said.
“You need a lot more firepower in order to be a circuit
breaker. Look at how much the ECB has put in and ask yourself
the question: has it created a circuit breaker? The answer is
no, even though the amounts involved have been massive.”  ‘Minus 20’  Bets that stocks will gain make up 20 percent of Traxis
Partners LLC’s holdings, down from as much as 85 percent six
months ago, as the threat of a recession makes equities too
risky, according to co-founder  Barton Biggs .  “I wish I was minus 20,” Biggs said during an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Matt
Miller  and  Carol Massar . “I wish I was zero. I don’t think any
place is a place to invest.”  Global stocks fell amid the Fed’s economic outlook and data
indicating  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined.  Stock futures extended losses after a Labor Department
report showed that more Americans than forecast filed first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments last week.
Separately, U.S. consumer confidence dropped last week to the
weakest point since the recession ended in June 2009, according
to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Alcoa, Caterpillar  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index lost 5.2 percent. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average decreased 3.1 percent. The KBW Bank
Index slumped 2.7 percent. Gauges of raw material and energy
producers had the biggest declines in the  S&P 500 , slumping at
least 5.3 percent, as commodities erased this year’s gain.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, dropped 6.7
percent to $10.11. Caterpillar fell 6.9 percent to $73.90. Bank
of America slid 5 percent to $6.06.   FedEx tumbled 8.2 percent to $66.58. The company, which
ships more packages by air than rival United Parcel Service
Inc., has seen volume growth slow as demand for express
shipments stagnates amid a weakening economic recovery. FedEx
also has been spending more on jet fuel, whose average cost
jumped about 48 percent in the period.  Before Panic Abates  The S&P 500 may drop as low as 1,076 before investor panic
abates and stocks rally, according to Tom DeMark, the creator of
indicators for identifying turning points in securities.  The benchmark index for U.S. equities may fall that far
intraday as early as next week and then gain as much as 20
percent, DeMark said in a telephone interview from Phoenix
today. The swings will push the VIX, as the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, above the high of 48
it reached on Aug. 8, he said.  “We’re trying to identify when selling capitulation is
about to be completed,” said DeMark, the founder of Market
Studies LLC. “We’re trying to identify the inflection point on
the downside when the last seller sold. It could come as early
as next Thursday.”  U.S. equities briefly trimmed losses as the Financial Times
reported that the European Union is looking to speed up a
recapitalization of 16 banks. The move would affect mostly
“mid-tier” banks, the FT reported, citing a senior French
official.  ‘Defensive’ Companies  Companies that are least-tied to economic growth, known as
“defensive,” outperformed the S&P 500. Gauges of utility and
telephone companies fell less than the benchmark index. Only 27
stocks in the S&P 500 rose.  “The market is pricing in a recession,”  Peter Sorrentino ,
a senior  money manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees
$14.8 billion. “We don’t see a repeat of 2009. “We’re into a
crisis of confidence.”  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  surged 10 percent to $120.60 for the biggest
gain in the S&P 500.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  agreed to buy
Goodrich for $16.5 billion, adding the maker of aircraft landing
gear and jet-turbine casings to take advantage of a record surge
in commercial plane orders. Goodrich stockholders will get
$127.50 a share. United Technologies dropped the most in the
Dow, erasing 8.8 percent to $68.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  