-- 
U.S. May Further Delay Health Program Targeted by Republicans

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-22T18:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-may-further-delay-health-program-targeted-by-republicans.html
U.S. health officials said they
will trim staff from a long-term care insurance program that was
part of the 2010 health-care law, adding that the initiative may
never proceed.  Known as the “Class Act,” the program was designed to
keep those with disabilities or impairments in performing daily
tasks out of nursing homes. Congressional Republicans say the
initiative is fiscally unsustainable because premiums paid into
the program won’t cover benefits in later years.  The law doesn’t stipulate when the program is supposed to
begin, and the  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
offered no details in a statement today. “It is an open
question whether the program will be implemented,” said Richard Sorian, a department spokesman, in an e-mailed statement. “We
are continuing our analysis of this program. A Class program
will only be implemented if it is fiscally solvent, self-
sustaining, and consistent with the statute.”  An indefinite delay would make the program the biggest
component of the overhaul that has been halted or repealed.  A  memo  published by the Republican Policy Committee, a
group of senators, cites an employee of the U.S. office as
saying the program is shutting down.  The memo refers to an e-mail from Bob Yee, an employee with
the department.  “Yee - the actuary HHS hired to run the Class program -
this morning sent around an e-mail to his colleagues noting that
he would be ‘leaving his position as the Class Office actuary
as HHS has decided to close down the Class Office effective
tomorrow,’” the Republican memo said. Chris Jacobs, the policy
committee aide who wrote the Republican memo, didn’t respond to
an e-mail requesting a copy of the full letter.  Office Not Closing  While the staff of the Class office has been reduced,
reports that it’s closing are inaccurate, said Sorian, the
health department spokesman.  The Class program was designed as long-term care insurance
to help people disabled by illness or accident stay in their
homes by paying for support services. By paying a premium into
the program, after five years they would be eligible for at
least $50 a day of benefits for health and support services, as
a way to keep them out of a full-time nursing home.  Republicans have derided it as an unaffordable entitlement
program that would cost the government more than it would take
in from premiums.  ‘Unsustainable Concern’  The arguments are backed by  Richard Foster , the chief
actuary for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Foster, in an April 2010  report , projected that the program
would start costing the federal government more money than it
took in starting in 2025. “There is a very serious risk that
the problem of adverse selection will make the Class program
unsustainable,” he said in the report.  Political appointees in President Barack Obama’s
administration have also agreed that the program, as envisioned,
isn’t sustainable. During a Senate Finance Committee  hearing  in
February, Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
said the program would be “significantly different” than what
was initially described in the law.  “We determined pretty quickly that the act be self-
sustaining and not rely on taxpayer investment,” Sebelius said
in the February hearing. “The program will not start unless we
can be certain it will be solvent and self-sustaining into the
future,” she said.  Ending the program would deepen the government’s deficit by
about $70 billion through 2019, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . Premiums paid for the insurance are expected to
far exceed benefits paid out in the program’s first decade.  The Senate Appropriations Committee approved a fiscal 2012
spending bill for the health department yesterday that
eliminates funding for the Class program. Obama had asked for
$120 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 