-- 
U.S. Mortgage Rates Hold Near Record Low as Fed Aims to Lower Loan Costs

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-09-22T14:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-mortgage-rates-hold-near-record-low-as-fed-aims-to-lower-loan-costs.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. held
steady this week, keeping borrowing costs at the lowest level in
at least four decades as the  Federal Reserve  takes steps aimed
at making loans even cheaper.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan remained at 4.09
percent,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement today. That’s the
lowest in the McLean, Virginia-based company’s records dating
back to 1971. The average 15-year rate fell to 3.29 percent from
3.30 percent last week.  The Fed said yesterday that it would replace short-term
bonds in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries as it seeks
to reduce interest rates and stave off another recession. The
central bank also will reinvest maturing housing debt into
mortgage-backed securities to support the home-loan market. Low
borrowing costs have so far failed to boost housing as lenders
tighten credit and job growth stalls.  “Interest rates help at the margins but they’re not game
changers,”  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television yesterday. “The problem is people’s access
to credit is very limited. Even if the low interest rates are
there, you maybe can’t take advantage of it.”  Applications to purchase homes fell 4.7 percent in the week
ended Sept. 16 to the lowest level since February, according to
an index from the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in  Washington .
The group’s gauge of refinancing jumped 2.2 percent.  Home Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose 7.7 percent in
August to a 5.03 million annual rate, a five-month high, as
investors scooped up distressed properties with cash, according
data from the National Association of Realtors released
yesterday. The August pace compares with a peak of 7.08 million
in 2005, before the housing boom turned into a subprime-mortgage
bust that dragged the economy into an 18-month recession.  The median price of a previously owned home fell to
$168,300 from $177,300 in August 2010, the report showed.  The gap between the 30-year fixed home-loan rate and 10-
year Treasuries, which reached the highest since 2009 this
month, may narrow following the Fed’s moves to invest in
mortgage bonds. Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac mortgage
securities tumbled the most in more than two years relative to
the government debt yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  