-- 
U.S. Won’t ‘Sit Idly by’ as Iran Proxies Kill Troops: Mullen

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-22T17:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-won-t-sit-idly-by-as-iran-proxies-kill-troops-mullen-1-.html
The chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff warned today that the U.S. won’t “sit idly by”
as Iranian proxies in Iraq kill American troops with improved
roadside bombs.  “ Iran  can control” its arming of Shiite militia allies
intent on attacking U.S. troops, said Admiral Mike Mullen,
testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee in
 Washington .  The improved weapons include roadside bombs capable of
penetrating the most heavily armored U.S. vehicles, and rocket-
propelled munitions called IRAMs.  “The IRAMs are getting bigger and bigger,” Mullen said.
“It’s very clear if they want to do it they can do it,” Mullen
said. “They have been warned about continuing it” and “if
they keep killing our troops that will not be something we will
sit idly by and watch.”  Mullen reiterated assertions made by him and former Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  that Iran, which is predominantly Shiite
Muslim, is furnishing new, more deadly weapons to Shiite
militias targeting U.S. troops across the border in Iraq, after
a lull since 2008.  Troop Deaths  The result was a spike in U.S. troop deaths in June. It has
since diminished, in part because of Iraqi government pressure
on Iran, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today told the panel.  “That was a very important message to the Iranians,”
Panetta said. It was reinforced by U.S. and Iraqi military
operations aimed at the Iranian-backed groups, he said.  “We don’t assume, however” that the hiatus will last,
Panetta said. Military planners anticipate Iran “is going to
come back and try to do the same thing,” Panetta said.  The Iraqi leadership understands they cannot allow Iran to
“conduct that kind of influence, provide those kinds of weapons
and basically undermine” the government, Panetta said. “But we
are going to have to continue to make sure they take the right
steps.”  “Iran needs to understand we are going to be around a
while here, making very clear to them we are not simply going to
ignore what Iran is doing in  Iraq ,” Panetta said.  U.S. Forces in Iraq in an e-mail statement said Iranian-
backed militia “have been working to improve the construction
of IRAMs to increase lethality.”  Through August 7, before a slowdown in detonations, U.S.
troops were attacked six times with Iranian-provided IRAMs, the
command said. That was up from three IRAM attacks in 2010 and
two in 2009, according to U.S. statistics. Those were down from
eight attacks in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  