-- 
U.S. Opposes Perry Electoral Maps for Texas, Federal Districts

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-09-22T00:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-opposes-perry-electoral-maps-for-texas-federal-districts.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is
opposing the new electoral maps approved by Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for congressional and state assembly districts, U.S.
District Judge Rosemary Collyer said at a hearing in  Washington .  Other parties who intervened in the case and joined today’s
hearing by telephone are challenging proposed state senate
districts, too, John Kent Tanner, a lawyer for the Texas
Legislative Black Caucus, said in an interview.  Texas sued the Obama administration in July seeking “pre-
clearance” for the state’s new maps under the Voting Rights
Act, a step required of all states with a history of voting-
rights violations. Perry, who is running for the Republican
presidential nomination, signed the bill with the election map
created in June by Texas lawmakers.  Collyer set an Oct. 25 deadline for the parties to finish
getting documents from each other and respond to the state’s
request for the judge to rule on the case without a trial. The
litigation is being handled by a panel of two federal district
court judges and one appellate judge.  The first day candidates can file for the state’s March
2012 primary ballot is Nov. 12 and the deadline is Dec. 12, said
David Schenck, the deputy Texas attorney general who represented
the state during the hearing.  The Legislature, most of who members are Republican, redrew
electoral maps after the state grew enough to gain four seats in
Congress, adding almost 4.3 million residents since 2000,
according to the 2010 census.  Congressional representatives whose seats are threatened by
the redistricting plan sued Perry and the state in federal court
in  San Antonio  to block approval of the map, as did Hispanic
voting-rights organizations and Travis County, which includes
the capital, Austin.  A ruling in that case is on hold pending the outcome of the
Washington lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 