-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Erase This Year’s Gain

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-22T12:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-erase-this-year-s-gain.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Erase This Year’s Gains as Slowdown Concerns Swell  Commodities erased this year’s gains after the U.S.  Federal
Reserve  said that the world’s biggest economy faces
“significant downside risks,” boosting speculation raw-
material demand will falter.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Gulf Cargo Gap Spurs Dubai- Abu Dhabi  Rail Link: Freight Markets  Dubai and Abu Dhabi, which boast the world’s tallest
building, largest mall and biggest international airline, lack
one key element of more basic infrastructure: a railway.  Israel Punches Above Weight as GDP Beats Developed World (1)  Never mind the collapse in confidence in Europe, the
Palestinian proposal for United Nations recognition and
heightened tensions with neighboring Egypt and longtime ally
Turkey. The Israeli economy just keeps growing faster than the
rest of the developed world.  Germany’s Green Drive Subdues 2013 Power Prices: Energy Markets  A surge in renewable energy in  Germany  is pushing power
prices for 2013 below next year’s level even as natural gas,
coal and emissions rise.  Ukraine’s Astarta Plans to Double Arable Land Within 3 Years (1)  Astarta Holding NV, a Ukrainian agricultural company and
producer of refined sugar, said sales and output growth and
increased efficiency will help it almost double the size of its
harvestable fields within three years.  Gold’s Price Surge Skews Inflation Numbers Across Asia (2)  The surging price of gold is fueling inflation from India
to Indonesia and forcing statisticians to decide whether jewelry
made of the metal still belongs in consumer-price indexes.  Ruble Exodus Tests Bank’s Reserves as Yields Soar: Russia Credit  The ruble’s longest losing streak in almost three years is
forcing the central bank to boost dollar sales to defend the
currency and pushing yields on government debt to the highest in
20 months.  Solaria, Dongfang Plan 100 Megawatts of Solar Parks a Year (1)  Solaria Energia & Medio Ambiente SA agreed with  China ’s
Dongfang Electric Corp. to jointly develop 100 megawatts of
photovoltaic  power plants  a year as  Spain ’s only traded solar-
panel maker seeks to expand in  Asia .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines to One Year Low as China Manufacturing Contracts  Copper fell to the lowest price in almost one year in
 London  after a China factory index signaling contraction added
to speculation of slowing metals demand.  Metal Price Drop Attracts Buying by South Korea State Agency (1)  South Korea, Asia’s third-biggest consumer of copper, plans
to boost metals purchases to build up stockpiles after prices
dropped, according to the state purchasing agency.  MINING:  Zambia’s ‘King Cobra’ Leads Banda in Presidential Vote Count  Zambian opposition leader  Michael Sata , known to his
supporters as “King Cobra,” led incumbent Rupiah Banda after
results were counted from a fifth of the constituencies in the
Sept. 20 presidential election.  Iron Ore’s Four-Year Slide Hitting Mining Earnings: Commodities  Iron ore is set for the first four-year drop since at least
1982 as supplies surge, threatening to end record earnings at
Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world´s
biggest producers.  Rio Tinto Says Nuclear Industry to Slow in Next Two Years (1)  Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest mining company, said
the nuclear industry is set to slow in the next two years and
uranium projects face a fight for capital after  Japan ’s
Fukushima disaster reduced appetite for the fuel.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls to 4-Week Low as Dollar Gains After Fed Purchase Plan  Gold  fell to a four-week low in London as the dollar’s
rally cut demand for the metal as an alternative asset after the
Federal Reserve said it will buy longer-maturity U.S. debt.
Palladium slid to a nine-month low.  Gold’s Price Surge Skews Inflation Numbers Across Asia (1)  The surging price of gold is fueling inflation from  India 
to Indonesia and forcing statisticians to decide whether jewelry
made of the metal still belongs in consumer-price indexes.  Managers Prefer Gold to Bonds on Faster Inflation: India Credit  Investors in India are increasing  purchases of gold at the
expense of bonds and equities, seeking  refuge from the fastest
inflation among Asia’s biggest economies.  AGRICULTURE:  Egypt’s SIIC to Import More Than 400,000 Tons of Sugar This Year  Egypt’s state-owned Sugar and Integrated Industries Co.’s
imports will exceed more than 400,000 metric tons of raw sugar
this year after today’s tender.  Palm Oil Declines on Concern Weakening Economy May Curb Demand  Palm oil dropped the most in more than six weeks after the
Federal Reserve signaled “significant downside risks” to the
 U.S. economy , raising concerns that global demand for
commodities may weaken.  Wheat Slides to Lowest in Two Months on Global-Economy Concern  Wheat slumped to the lowest price in more than two months
in  Chicago , and corn and soybeans also declined, on increasing
concern that slowing global economic growth will weigh on
demand.  Foreign Investor ‘Land Grabs’ Harm Poor Farmers, Oxfam Says (2)  Foreign-investor purchases of farmland in poorer nations
are displacing local populations and adding little to a
country’s wealth, even as agricultural prices increase,
according to Oxfam International.  Diseases May Limit Gains in  Indonesia  Cocoa, Group Predicts (1)  Cocoa production in Indonesia, the third-largest grower,
may gain 19 percent next year, less than an initial target for
expansion, as diseases hurt crops even as the weather improves,
according to an industry group.  SHIPPING:  Commodity-Ship Demolitions to Be Record in 2011, Bimco Says (2)  Demolition of commodity carriers will rise to a record this
year, potentially curbing a collapse in charter rates, according
to the Baltic and International Maritime Council, a trade group
representing shipowners.  LNG Shipping Rates to ‘Stay Strong’ Until 2014, Platou Says  The cost of hiring liquefied natural gas carriers will
likely “stay strong” until at least 2014, with fleet
utilization remaining above 90 percent until then, RS Platou
Markets analysts led by Frode Morkedal in Oslo said in an e-
mailed report today.  Asia to Raise October West African Oil Imports to 48 Cargoes (1)  Asian oil refiners plan to increase West African crude
imports for next month to 48 cargoes, six more than September,
according to a survey of six traders involved in the
transactions.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Options Turn More Bearish on Global Slump: China Credit  Options traders are the most bearish on the Chinese yuan
since March 2009 amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and stalling
U.S. economic growth will cut demand for goods from the world’s
biggest exporter.  Fed Sees ‘Significant’ Risks to Economy as It Eases Policy (1)  Federal Reserve policy makers indicated they are willing to
do more to keep the economy from sliding into another recession
as they made their second move in as many months to reduce
borrowing costs.  Banks Denied Senior Bond Funding as Crisis Deepens: Euro Credit  It’s been 2 1/2 months since a bank managed to sell a
conventional bond in Europe’s public markets, the longest period
without a deal ever and another example of the sovereign crisis
choking off funding.  Greece  Speeds Cuts to Ensure Aid as Transport Workers Strike (1)  Greece said it will accelerate budget cuts to keep
emergency loans flowing, extending austerity measures that have
deepened a recession and failed to ease doubts that it can avoid
default.  China Manufacturing May Contract a Third Month, Survey Shows (2)  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Commodities Drop on Fed; Treasury Yields at Record Low  Stocks and commodities tumbled, Treasury 30-year yields
dropped to a record and the Dollar Index climbed to a seven-
month high as the Federal Reserve signaled “significant
downside risks” in the U.S. economy.  Dollar, Yen Strengthen on Global Growth Concern; Aussie Slumps  The dollar and yen jumped on concern global growth is
stalling after the Federal Reserve said yesterday it saw
“significant downside risks” to the U.S. economy, spurring
demand for safer assets.  European Stocks Slide as Fed Sees Risks to Economy; Rio Sinks  European stocks tumbled as the Federal Reserve signaled
“significant downside risks” to the world’s largest economy
and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded three U.S. banks. Asian
shares and U.S. index futures fell.  Asian Stocks Set for Lowest Close in a Year on Economic Risks  Asian stocks tumbled, sending the regional benchmark index
toward its lowest close in more than a year, after the U.S.
Federal Reserve warned of “significant downside risks to the
economic outlook” and Moody’s Investors Service cut its debt
ratings on some American banks.  Palestinians Give UN Time Amid Pressure to Drop State Bid (2)  The Palestinian Authority will push ahead with its bid to
get United Nations statehood recognition though it won’t press
for an immediate vote as support in the Security Council
appeared to be below the needed threshold.  U.S. to Upgrade Taiwan F-16s in Move China Can ‘Live With’ (1)  The U.S. rejected Taiwan’s request for new Lockheed Martin
Corp. F-16 fighters, offering to sell $5.3 billion in upgrades
for existing jets in a move likely to avoid a repeat of the
Chinese backlash from earlier sales.  EU Says Several Key Issues Still on the Table in Greek Talks  The European Commission said “several key elements” of
Greece’s budget-cutting package remain to be resolved.  SPORTS:  2011 Rugby  World Cup  Pool Standings  The 2011 Rugby World Cup pool standings through Sept. 22.
The top two teams advance to the quarterfinals of the 20-nation
tournament in  New Zealand .  2011 Rugby World Cup Results and Schedule  South Africa  Scores 12 Tries to Defeat Namibia 87-0 in World Cup  Defending champion South Africa scored 12 tries to defeat
Namibia 87-0 in the Rugby World Cup. The Springbok’s  Bryan
Habana  set his country’s try-scoring record in the first half.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  