-- 
U.S. Regional and State Quarterly Personal Income (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-22T13:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-regional-and-state-quarterly-personal-income-text-.html
Following is the text of the
quarterly state personal income report from the  Bureau of
Economic Analysis .  State Personal Income: Second Quarter 2011  State personal income growth slowed to 1.1 percent, on average,
in the second quarter of 2011, down from 2.1 percent in the
first quarter, according to estimates released today by the U.S.
Bureau of Economic Analysis. Growth rates ranged from 2.2
percent in Nebraska and South Dakota to 0.7 percent in the
states of Washington and  Georgia . Inflation, as measured by the
national price index for personal consumption expenditures,
decreased to 0.8 percent in the second quarter from 1.0 percent
in the first quarter of 2011.  The deceleration in the second quarter brought personal income
growth back to the rate prevailing in the last two quarters of
2010. Personal income growth had been boosted 0.8 percentage
point in the first quarter by a reduction in the personal
contribution rate for social security, one of the provisions of
the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job
Creation Act of 2010.  Earnings by state and industry. Earnings in health care and
professional services grew in all states in the second quarter.
What distinguished the fastest growing states from the others
were the contributions of their farming, mining, and durable
goods manufacturing industries.  Farming made substantial contributions to personal income growth
in  Nebraska  and South Dakota in the second quarter, where the
value of crop output was up 9 percent, and in Kansas and Iowa
where crop output was up 6 to 8 percent. High global grain
demand, exemplified by record soybean exports to  China  and a
steady expansion of corn use in ethanol production, made the
Plains Region the fastest growing of the eight BEA regions (see
Definitions page). Personal income grew 1.5 percent in the
Plains Region in the second quarter.  With energy prices approaching the record level of the third
quarter of 2008, and the industry exploring for and developing
new production fields, earnings in the mining industry (which
includes oil and gas extraction) grew 14 percent in North Dakota
and 7.3 percent in Wyoming. Mining made smaller, but still
notable, contributions to earnings growth in  Alaska , West
Virginia,  Oklahoma ,  Texas , and  Louisiana .  Earnings in the durable-goods manufacturing industry grew
significantly in the second quarter in Oklahoma and Wisconsin,
where it grew 6.2 and 3.1 percent, respectively. It made smaller,
but still notable contributions to earnings growth in Iowa,
 Kansas , and  Indiana . Exports of U.S. durable goods grew 2.7
percent in the second quarter as the dollar continued to
depreciate against other major currencies.  Small gains in construction earnings in 39 states in the second
quarter more than offset the relatively large declines in
 Colorado ,  Nevada , and  New Mexico  and enabled construction
earnings for the nation to increase for the second consecutive
quarter. However, only in North Dakota did construction
contribute significantly to overall earnings growth.
Construction earnings grew 4.9 percent in North Dakota in the
second quarter following a 4.6 percent increase in the first
quarter.  The states with the slowest personal income growth in the second
quarter--Washington, Georgia,  New York ,  Delaware , and Michigan--
all had substantial bonuses paid to workers in the first quarter
in major industries: durable goods manufacturing in the cases of
 Washington  and  Michigan , finance in the cases of New York and
Delaware, and transportation and management of companies in the
case of Georgia.  Revisions. BEA also released today revised quarterly and annual
state personal income beginning with the first quarter of 2008.
Revisions are usually made each September to incorporate source
data that are more complete and more detailed than previously
available. Personal income for 2010 for the 50 states and the
 District of Columbia  was revised down 1.0 percentage point on
average. A complete presentation and discussion of the data and
revisions will be provided in the October issue of the Survey of
Current Business.  NOTE.-Quarter-to-quarter percent changes are calculated from
unrounded data and are not annualized. Quarterly estimates are
expressed at seasonally adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise
specified. Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences
between published estimates.  Definitions  Personal income is the income received by all persons from all
sources. Personal income is the sum of net earnings by place of
residence, property income, and personal current transfer
receipts. Property income is rental income of persons, personal
dividend income, and personal interest income. Net earnings is
earnings by place of work (the sum of wage and salary
disbursements, supplements to wages and salaries, and
proprietors’ income) less contributions for government social
insurance, plus an adjustment to convert earnings by place of
work to a place-of-residence basis. Personal income is measured
before the deduction of personal income taxes and other personal
taxes and is reported in current dollars (no adjustment is made
for price changes).  The estimate of personal income in the  United States  is derived
as the sum of the state estimates and the estimate for the
District of Columbia; it differs from the estimate of personal
income in the national income and product accounts (NIPAs)
because of differences in coverage, in the methodologies used to
prepare the estimates, and in the timing of the availability of
source data.  BEA groups all 50 states and the District of Columbia into eight
distinct regions for purposes of data collecting and analyses:
New England (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island, and Vermont); Mideast (Delaware, District of
Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania);
Great Lakes (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin);
Plains ( Iowa , Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North
Dakota, and South Dakota); Southeast (Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia); Southwest
(Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas); Rocky Mountain
(Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Utah, and Wyoming); and Far West
(Alaska, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington).  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry estimates;
the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases are
available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov. By
visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail
summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  ****  Next state personal income release - December 19, 2011, at 8:30
A.M. for state personal income, third quarter 2011.
 Search:  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Commerce  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  