-- 
U.S. Commercial Paper Declines for 10th Week, Fed Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-22T15:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-commercial-paper-declines-for-10th-week-fed-says-1-.html
Corporate borrowing with short-term
IOUs fell for the 10th week, the longest decline since January,
as investors cut holdings of bank debt amid escalating strains
in  Europe .  Seasonally adjusted U.S. commercial paper decreased $13.4
billion in the week ended Sept. 21 to $1.030 trillion, the
 Federal Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the lowest
level since the market reached $1.015 trillion in the period
ended Feb. 9, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign financial commercial paper fell by $6.8 billion, the
third weekly decline, according to the Fed data.  “The underlying story has been that money-market funds are
shying away from European financial paper and asset-backed
commercial paper,” said Raymond Stone, who tracks U.S. money
markets as managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research
Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Speculation Spain and Italy may be forced to follow Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking international bailouts has
roiled global markets over the past two months, as investors
grow concerned that a recession would erode creditworthiness of
banks and companies’ short term debt. Corporations sell
commercial paper to fund everyday activities like paying rent
and salaries.  Demand for Safety  The European credit crisis will have to be resolved and
rates that money-market funds receive for buying commercial
paper will have to rise before the market begins growing, Stone
said. “There’s a demand for safety” in instruments such as
U.S. Treasuries, he said.  The Greek government is struggling to convince the European
Union,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund 
that it can meet the debt-reduction requirements needed for the
next installment of its rescue package to be released.  IOUs issued by non-financial companies rose $15.8 billion
to $187.2 billion, led by a jump in U.S. domestic issuers, the
Fed said. Domestic non-financial IOUs rose $12.1 billion to
$149.6 billion, the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  