-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Sept. 20 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-09-22T12:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-sept-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  A number of fronts moved across the country during this Drought
Monitor week. They brought some much-needed rain to areas of the
South, the Plains, the Midwest and into the Northeast.  In the
most severe areas of drought, the totals were not sufficient
mitigate the impacts of the long-term lack of water.  The Southeast: Sporadic rains fell across the area but mostly
stayed north of the drought areas. Southern Georgia saw a minor
improvement in Extreme Drought conditions (D3) while
southwestern  Alabama  saw degradation of Abnormal Dryness (D0)
and Moderate Drought (D1).  The Carolinas saw an increase in the
extent of Moderate Drought (D1), mainly around the Charlotte
area, along with a small increase in the extent of Severe
Drought (D2) in the southwestern part of  North Carolina .
Conditions generally improved in  Kentucky  with this week’s
rainfall.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Adequate rains fell this week
the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.  With some areas still drying
out from tropical storms, the merely adequate precipitation was
welcome.  No changes were made in the drought status in this
area.  The South:  Hit and miss precipitation fell across the south
this week. Localized areas of improvement in Exceptional (D4)
and Extreme (D3) Drought were experienced in Texas and  Oklahoma .
Conditions in  Kansas  improved slightly in the east and degraded
in the central and western part of the state.  The area is still
in the midst of a record-setting or near record-setting drought.
In  Texas , this year has been characterized and the worst 1-year
drought on record by the State Climatologist. Recent estimates
of state-wide agricultural impact from drought and wildfires is
now at $5.4 billion. In Texas, 98% of the Pasture and Range land
is considered to be in Poor or Very Poor condition.   In
Oklahoma, the total is 94%.   New Mexico  follows a close third at
92%.  The Plains and Midwest: Conditions in the Northern Plains
deteriorated some this week while in the Midwest, conditions
improved slightly. Minnesota saw expansion of Moderate Drought
(D1) and Abnormal Dryness (D0) in the southern part of the state
while Severe Drought (D2) expanded in the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan.   South Dakota  likewise saw expansion of Moderate
Drought (D1) and Abnormal Dryness (D0) in the east but a welcome
contraction of Abnormal Dryness (D0) in the Black Hills in the
southwestern part of the state.  Abnormal Dryness (D0) was
likewise reduced in Nebraska due to ample precipitation.
Additional beneficial precipitation fell throughout southern
Illinois and  Indiana  alleviating some Severe (D2) and Moderate
Drought (D1) there.  The West: The West generally continued to benefit from some
above-normal rainfall.  In northern and central Colorado
beneficial rains improved conditions in the Extreme (D3), Severe
(D2), and Moderate (D1) drought areas as well as the Abnormal
Dryness (D0).  In New Mexico, conditions in the northwest part
of the state improved while in  Arizona , near-record rainfall
around Tucson led to improvements in Extreme Drought (D3) in
that area.  The Abnormal Dryness (D0) also improved in southern
 Nevada .  Hawaii, Alaska and  Puerto Rico : Drought conditions remained
unchanged Hawaii and Puerto Rico this week.  In Alaska, the
abnormal dryness (D0) was removed based largely on precipitation
in the south and normal or above streamflow throughout most of
the state.  Looking Ahead: During the September 21-September 26, 2011 time
period, there is an enhanced probability of precipitation
extending along the East Coast and into the Ohio Valley.  Most
of the interior of the country and the West are expected to see
a suppressed chance of precipitation.  Temperatures are
generally forecast to be normal to above normal throughout the
Plains and throughout the entire West, with the exception of
isolated West coastal locations.  Below-normal temperatures are
generally expected from the Midwest through the Mid-Atlantic and
down through the Southeast.  For the ensuing 5 days (September 27 - October 1, 2011), the
odds favor normal to cooler-than-normal conditions over much of
the Southeast, South, and Mid-Atlantic.  Warmer-than-normal
conditions are expected from the Upper Midwest, through the High
Plains and throughout the West.  The odds of above-normal
precipitation are limited to the extreme Southeast, the Atlantic
Seaboard into southern  New England , and the Northwest.  In
 Alaska , the odds favor normal to below-normal precipitation
across the western part of the state and the Aleutian Islands.
Above-normal precipitation is also expected in the Southeast
part of the state. Below-normal temperatures are expected
throughout the western and central part of the state.  The
southeast portion of the state is expecting above-normal
temperatures.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  