-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Falls to Lowest Since June ’09 in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-22T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/u-s-consumer-comfort-gauge-falls-to-lowest-since-recession.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped last week to the weakest point since the recession ended
in June 2009 as Americans’ views of the economy worsened.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 52.1 in
the period to Sept. 18 from minus 49.3 in the prior week.
Sentiment among men slumped to an all-time low. A monthly
expectations gauge held at minus 34, the worst reading since
March 2009.  Stock-market volatility linked to  Europe ’s debt crisis,
declining home values and a lack of  job creation  help explain
why the smallest share of Americans since February 2009 say the
economy is improving. Federal Reserve officials yesterday
employed another round of unconventional monetary policy to help
shore up an economy showing “significant downside risks.”  “Readings at these levels are consistent with an economy
that has best sharply decelerated and at worst slipped into
recession,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in  New York . “A crisis of confidence that
corporate and political leadership are not up to addressing the
problem in the labor market and broader economy is likely
responsible for the new cyclical low.”  More Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  last week, another report today showed.
Initial jobless claims dropped by 9,000 to 423,000, the Labor
Department said.  Stocks sank on concern global central banks are running out
of options to prevent another recession. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declined 2.6 percent to 1,136.64 at 9:39 a.m. in New
York.  State of Economy  The weekly comfort data showed declines in two of the
index’s three components. The measure of Americans’ views of the
current state of the economy dropped to minus 88.9 last week,
the lowest since April 2009, while a measure of personal
finances fell to minus 7.5 from minus 0.7.  The buying climate index was minus 59.9, little changed
from the prior week when it reached the lowest level since
October 2008, the month after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
bankruptcy marked the start financial meltdown.  The Bloomberg consumer comfort gauge, which began December
1985, has been stuck below minus 40 -- the level associated with
recessions or their aftermath -- since the end of February. It
has averaged minus 45.6 this year, compared with minus 45.7 for
2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009.  To keep the economy from relapsing into a recession, the
Fed said yesterday it will replace much of the short-term debt
in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries. The action
“should put downward pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and
help make broader financial conditions more accommodative,” the
Fed’s Open Market Committee said.  ‘Significant Downside’  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said.  The Bloomberg monthly measure of consumer expectations
showed 12 percent of those polled said the economy is getting
better, the lowest reading since February 2009. Forty-six
percent said the economy was deteriorating.  “The public’s gloom is remarkable,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. The
figures provide “yet more chilling results for  Barack Obama ,
besieged in a storm of economic criticism.”  The Bloomberg weekly comfort index fell to minus 51.3 among
men, and approached all-time lows among whites, homeowners and
people with a high-school degree.  Higher Income  While the gauge for those earning more than $100,000 a year
improved to minus 13.7 from minus 18.1, it was the eighth
straight week of double-digit negative figures, the longest such
stretch in two years.  Political independents grew more pessimistic, with
sentiment plunging to minus 51.4 from minus 44.1. Gauges of
sentiment among Democrats and Republicans improved.  Recent data have prompted some economists to raise the odds
of a renewed recession. The economy generated no jobs in August,
the worst reading since September 2010, retail sales were little
changed and regional surveys of factory activity have signaled
contraction.  A stagnant labor market is putting pressure on President
Barack Obama, lawmakers and the Fed to spur job growth. Obama
this month introduced a $447 billion jobs plan to boost
payrolls.  Obama Doubts  A majority of Americans don’t believe Obama’s plan will
help lower the  unemployment rate . The downbeat assessment of
Obama’s American Jobs Act reflects a growing and broad sense of
dissatisfaction with the president. Americans disapprove of his
handling of the economy by 62 percent to 33 percent, a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12 showed. The disapproval
number represents a nine-point increase from six months ago.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  