-- 
UBS Loss Leaves Gruebel Contemplating Smaller Investment Bank

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ubs-loss-leaves-saint-ossie-gruebel-contemplating-tinier-investment-bank.html
“We do know what we’re doing,”
 UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  told investors
last year about plans to step up risk-taking to boost profit.
“Risk is our business.”  Ten months later, Switzerland’s biggest bank revealed a
$2.3 billion loss from what it called “unauthorized trading.”
Kweku Adoboli, a 31-year-old trader at the company, appeared in
court in London yesterday on charges of fraud and false
accounting. Now UBS is the subject of probes by U.K. and Swiss
regulators and is facing calls by investors and politicians to
scale back its investment bank.  “The reputation is now at its limit,” said Guy de Blonay,
a London-based  fund manager  at Jupiter Asset Management Plc,
which oversees about 25 billion pounds ($39 billion), including
UBS shares. “One more mistake and it could damage the
reputation for good.”  Gruebel, 67, was hired out of retirement to stabilize the
lender, the flagship for Switzerland’s wealth-management
industry, after bets on U.S. mortgage-backed securities
backfired. The bank posted the biggest loss in Swiss corporate
history and took a capital injection of 6 billion Swiss francs
($6.6 billion) from the government. Born in East Germany, he
spent 37 years at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , earning the moniker
“Saint Ossie” for helping restore that bank’s profit and
reputation, and for spotting the U.S. subprime debacle early.  At UBS, he has put on the brakes and stepped on the gas. He
began by cutting more than 7,500 jobs and curbing risks -- and
missed the 2009 boom in fixed-income trading that allowed
competitors such as New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to profit.  Profit Target  Then, in November 2009, he set a target of reaching 15
billion francs in pretax profit by 2014. To get there, Gruebel
ramped up the Zurich-based bank’s fixed-income unit under
Carsten Kengeter, added 1,700 employees at the investment bank
and took on more risk. By November 2010, Kengeter, 44, was in
sole charge of the investment bank.  “We have to have risk to be able to make money,” Gruebel
said at the investor presentation in  London  on Nov. 16. “If
ever anything goes wrong, at least you will not hear any of us
say we didn’t know.”  That’s just what UBS managers are saying now. The bank
didn’t verify trades prosecutors say may date to 2008. Gruebel
wasn’t available to comment, a spokesman said.  “It’s come at a horrendously bad time for UBS,” John Cryan, 50, who served as chief financial officer from 2008 until
June, said in an interview. “They’re back to square one.”  ‘Sorry Beyond Words’  The latest setback stemmed from unauthorized trading in
stock-index futures, UBS said this week. Adoboli said through
his lawyer he was “sorry beyond words” for his “disastrous
miscalculations” when he appeared yesterday at the City of
London Magistrates’ court. He wasn’t required to enter a plea
and remains in police custody pending an Oct. 20 hearing. He
faces a maximum 10-year jail sentence, according to the Crown
Prosecution Service’s  sentencing manual .  UBS shares have fallen 12 percent since the day the bank
disclosed the loss and are down 37 percent this year compared
with a 39 percent decline in the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index.  That the breakdown in controls accompanied a ramping up of
risk doesn’t surprise Jupiter’s de Blonay.  “The two problems are linked,” he said. “You have a
strategy where they want to bring the investment bank back to
the top of the league table. You hire, you put the book back at
risk and you try to get the numbers through. That means you have
got to take more risk.”  Wealth Management   The trading loss adds to pressure on Gruebel to shrink the
investment bank and move UBS back to its roots in asset
management, where earnings are more stable, according to Lutz Roehmeyer, who helps manage about $14 billion at Landesbank
Berlin Investment in Berlin, including UBS shares.  The wealth-management units, which generate 41 percent of
UBS’s revenue, have been attracting net new money over the past
year after clients pulled assets in the credit crisis. UBS
managed 2.47 trillion francs for affluent individuals as of the
end of June. It is the world’s third-largest private wealth
manager, behind  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley,
according to data compiled by Scorpio Partnership.  “Our near-term concern is the impact the recent turmoil
will have on customer confidence in wealth management, which had
been staging a gradual recovery in recent quarters,” Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in
London, wrote in a note to clients on Sept. 19.  History of Missteps  The $2.3 billion trading loss is the latest misstep UBS
executives have made in the past 13 years as they sought to
expand the bank’s reach outside  Switzerland .  The 1998 combination of Union Bank of Switzerland with SBC
Warburg allowed Marcel Ospel, then CEO of SBC, to turn UBS into
the world’s largest wealth manager. The deal hit turbulence soon
after it closed. The old UBS had made a $1 billion investment in
Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge-fund firm Long-Term Capital
Management LP, which was rescued by a group of banks soon after
the merger.  Ospel, seeking to expand the business in the U.S., paid
$11.5 billion in 2000 for New York-based Paine Webber Group
Inc., then the fourth-biggest U.S. retail brokerage. Ospel
became chairman in 2001, and by 2002 the firm’s foreign-exchange
and cash-collateral-trading division was investing in U.S.
asset-backed securities. UBS posted writedowns of almost $2
billion in 2007 after the market for those instruments froze.  CDO Losses  Meanwhile, the bank’s fixed-income proprietary trading
desk, which earned $700 million of pretax profit in 2005, was
drawing attention. Under the leadership of John Costas, the firm
spun off the unit as a UBS-backed hedge fund called Dillon Read
Capital Management LLC. The operation’s losses swelled to 150
million francs by the first quarter of 2007 after losing bets on
securities backed by U.S. subprime mortgages. In May of that
year, UBS closed the fund.  The investment bank’s biggest bets came from the team that
invested in collateralized debt obligations. CDOs pool bonds,
loans and other fixed-income assets, channeling their income
into securities of varying risk and return. The group, instead
of just securitizing and selling the CDOs, was by early 2006
keeping the instruments on the bank’s books so they could profit
from the yields. The CDO desk recorded two-thirds of UBS’s
losses in 2007, or $12.5 billion.  ‘Complacent’ Management  After its government rescue, UBS published two reports
about its near-collapse, one in 2008 and a 2010  study  by Tobias
Straumann, a financial historian at the University of Zurich. He
found the bank’s management “complacent” and criticized it for
relying too much on internally produced risk-management reports.  UBS’s risk systems were “at fault” in 2007 and 2008
because they weren’t aggregating all the bank’s positions, Cryan
said in an interview.  Ospel quit as chairman in April 2008, a period followed by
asset sales, the bailout, restructurings and writedowns and
losses that eventually totaled more than $57 billion.  Gruebel, UBS’s third CEO in less than two years, installed
more stringent controls at the investment bank. He held weekly
calls with top risk officers and monitored traders’ positions
with Kengeter. The executives sought to reassure investors by
saying UBS could take on more risks because it had a better
handle on them.  Increasing VaR  The bank made bigger bets, increasing so-called value at
risk, a measure of how much the firm could lose in securities
markets on a single day. UBS’s average VaR for the second
quarter climbed to 75 million francs from 48 million francs in
the year-earlier period and 67 million francs for the second
quarter of 2009, according to filings. By comparison, VaR at
JPMorgan’s investment bank fell to $77 million in the second
quarter from $90 million in the year-earlier period. At Deutsche
Bank AG, it declined to 53 million euros ($71.4 million) in the
second quarter.  The push in  investment banking  didn’t pay off. UBS slipped
among underwriters of global stock sales, dropping to eighth
this year from fourth in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
In mergers, the firm rose to 10th this year from 12th in 2009,
though the growth wasn’t sufficient to offset declining industry
revenue as the European debt crisis worsened.  Pretax profit at UBS’s investment bank slumped to 376
million francs in the second quarter from 1.31 billion francs in
the year-earlier period. The unit’s cost-to-income ratio, the
highest among the nine biggest investment banks last year, rose
to 86 percent in the quarter.  ‘Cost Problems’  “We had cost problems in the investment bank, which has
put pressure on UBS for months,” said  Christian Hamann , an
analyst at  Hamburger Sparkasse  in Hamburg, who has a “hold”
rating on UBS. “UBS over-hired.”  The bank reversed course again, scrapping its profit target
in July and announcing cost cuts after second-quarter net income
dropped 49 percent because of a slump in earnings at the
investment bank. UBS said last month it would cut 3,500 jobs, 45
percent of them in the investment bank.  The flaws in UBS’s back-office operations that led to the
latest loss puzzle financial industry veterans. Traders
expressed surprise that the bank failed to notice the trades
sooner because of their size and because they would have been
scrutinized by others: the lender’s counterparty risk managers,
as well as credit-valuation-adjustment, audit, risk-management
and compliance teams.  “It’s just too big a thing to not be noticed,” said Aaron Brown, chief risk manager at AQR Capital Management LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut, and author of the forthcoming “Red-
Blooded Risk: The Secret History of  Wall Street .” “You can
hide a lot of stuff -- you’ve got millions of transactions every
day. If somebody puts in 10 little fictitious transactions, that
can be very hard to find. But things of this size, it’s just
hard to believe that somebody wouldn’t notice them.”  Delta One  The loss came out of UBS’s Delta One desk in London, which
helps clients speculate on or hedge against the performance of a
basket of securities. Traders on the team bet with the bank’s
own money as they put together packages and hedge risk. UBS was
the third-ranked Delta One trader this year behind Bank of
America and Morgan Stanley in the Thomson Extel Awards for
excellence.  When a bank writes a futures contract for a client, it may
hedge the cost by buying an exchange-traded fund, securities
linked to illiquid or complex baskets of assets. The traders
could profit from the cost and margin differences between
derivatives and their underlying securities, and by timing the
purchase and sale of each element.  ‘Fictitious’ Positions  Delta One desks have triggered losses for banks before:
 Jerome Kerviel  amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized
positions concealed with faked hedges before being discovered by
his employer,  France ’s Societe Generale SA, in January 2008. The
bets cost the bank 4.9 billion euros. A Paris court ordered him
last year to repay the loss in full and sentenced him to three
years in jail. He’s appealing the ruling.  UBS said its loss stemmed from trades in Standard & Poor’s
500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months.
The positions had been offset by “fictitious, forward-settling-
cash ETF positions, allegedly executed by the trader. These
fictitious trades concealed the fact that the index futures
trades violated UBS’s risk limits,” the bank said.  Financial risk management can’t be effective if there
aren’t good operational controls in place, such as confirming
trades, said Leon Metzger, a former executive with hedge-fund
firm Paloma Partners LLC and now a lecturer at the Yale School
of Management in New Haven, Connecticut.  Control ‘Failure’  “People are saying it’s a failure of financial risk
management, but it sounds like it’s more a failure of
operational controls,” Metzger said in a telephone interview.
“There’s going to be a change as a result of this. Firms are
going to be wary of trades that can’t be corroborated, whether
the firms have reached this conclusion by themselves or because
their investors will force them.”  Dealmakers in Europe can buy ETFs on the over-the-counter
market, allowing them to bypass exchanges and to agree on later
settlement dates than the three days required by exchanges,
traders said. About half of ETFs are bought over the counter in
Europe, the traders said.  Once a trader places an order, responsibility passes to the
back office, which would then confirm and complete the
transaction. Banks have teams of people who corroborate the
existence of a trade with the other party before settling the
contract. That process should have alerted risk officers to the
phony trades, traders said. UBS may have been slow in confirming
over-the-counter trades, they said.  Back Office  Employees in the back office, where Adoboli previously
worked, may have been unwilling to challenge the front desk,
said Sylvain Asimus, a former back-office worker at Credit
Commercial de France who is now a technical analyst at research
firm Phinamics Ltd.  “As a back-office employee, the one thing you are looking
for is to move to the front desk, so you don’t want to annoy the
traders,” Asimus said in an interview.  Some banks in Europe don’t confirm these types of cash ETF
trades until they’re settled, according to a person familiar
with the matter. In that case, the trader might have described
his fake ETF trades as having been executed with those banks in
order to avoid being asked questions by UBS controllers about
the lack of confirmations, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly because of the criminal probe.  ‘Systems Weren’t Adequate’  “Obviously their systems weren’t adequate,” said Michael
Dempster, founder of the University of Cambridge’s Centre for
Financial Research. “In the best institutions, where risk
officers on the desks are given real-time data, it would be very
hard for this to happen.”  Risk at UBS has been overseen since January by Maureen Miskovic, who previously served as chief risk officer at State
Street Corp. and held the same role at  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc. for six years until 2002. In June 2008, UBS hired Thomas Daula to run risk management at its investment bank. Daula had
been chief risk officer at Morgan Stanley in 2007 when that bank
wrote down $9.4 billion on wrong-way proprietary trading bets on
mortgage-related securities.  Daula became chief operating officer at the investment bank
in January, and Mark Sanborn became chief risk officer in April.
Sanborn was head of global equity trading at Lehman Brothers
before he left in 2003 to run two  hedge funds . None of the three
executives returned calls or e-mails seeking comment.  “UBS is strongly committed to improve its risk-control
framework to prevent similar events from happening again,” the
bank said in a statement to Bloomberg. “However, the nature of
changes we will adopt to this end will be defined in detail only
after the pertinent investigations will be concluded.”  Swiss Rules  The Swiss parliament next week will vote on proposals to
strengthen the country’s biggest banks by making them hold
capital equal to at least 19 percent of assets, more than
required under new rules agreed to by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. The Swiss law will also allow regulators to
split up banks that fail to manage their risk, Finance Minister
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last week.  “We already saw political pressure in Switzerland during
the financial crisis on UBS being too-big-to-fail,” said Hamann
of Hamburger Sparkasse. “This could increase the chances of a
separation of the investment bank and wealth management.”  UBS is more likely to scale back the most capital-intensive
parts of its investment bank and those that help its wealth-
management units the least, other analysts said.  “The investment-banking businesses that make money for
them are foreign exchange, equities,  Asia  and parts of Europe
underwriting,” said Huw van Steenis, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in London. “Anything that is capital intensive,
including the swaps business, the U.S. credit business and rates
business, is where there’s very little synergy with the private
bank.”  Singapore Scolding  UBS may be forced to shut parts of the investment bank
because of a dearth of buyers, according to fund managers and
analysts.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, was
interested in buying UBS’s wealth-management unit in late 2008,
not its investment bank, according to a person with knowledge of
the discussions. A spokesman for HSBC declined to comment.  Investors also may demand management changes once it
becomes clear how the loss was incurred. Gruebel was this week
criticized by the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., its
biggest shareholder, which expressed “disappointment and
concern about the lapses and urged UBS to take firm action to
restore confidence in the bank,” according to a statement from
the sovereign-wealth fund after its managers met with the CEO.  ‘Gruebel’s Idea’  “It was Gruebel’s idea to beef up the investment bank, so
if anyone should go it should be him,” said  Florian Esterer ,
who helps oversee about $55 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG in Zurich and doesn’t own UBS shares.  Gruebel may keep his job for want of an obvious successor
inside UBS, analysts said. Kengeter had been considered a
candidate until the loss, according to Hamann.  “The investigation should go down the chain and establish
where the fault lies,” said Chris Roebuck, visiting professor
at the Cass Business School in London. “To call for the
resignation of Gruebel and the head of the investment bank is
absolutely premature.”  The CEO is scheduled to talk to shareholders at a Nov. 17
investor day. Analysts had expected him to announce a
restructuring of the investment bank. He may have to do more now
to keep both his job and the bank’s reputation intact.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  