-- 
TUI Travel Slips After CEO Predicts Slow Recovery in North Africa Tourism

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-09-22T08:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/tui-travel-says-bookings-for-winter-vacations-are-satisfactory-.html
TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ,  Europe ’s largest
tour operator, fell the most in more than two months in London
trading after Chief Executive Officer Peter Long said he expects
a “slow” recovery in travel to Egypt and  Tunisia .  The shares fell as much as 13.6 pence, or 8.8 percent, to
141.3 pence, the steepest intraday drop since July 12. They were
down 8.2 percent as of 9:34 a.m., the biggest decline in the
U.K.  FTSE 250 Index (MCX)  of mid-cap stocks.  The fiscal year ending September 2012 is likely to be
“tough” for TUI Travel, given the slow recovery in North
Africa, higher prices and a difficult economic backdrop, Greg Johnson, an analyst at Shore Capital, said in a note today.  TUI Travel and smaller competitor  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) 
canceled flights and excursions to North Africa earlier this
year amid political unrest in the region. The tour operator has
reduced the number of trips it offers to Egypt and Tunisia from
the U.K. and  Germany  for next summer, it said today.  TUI Travel said it’s on track to meet full-year forecasts
and reported “satisfactory” winter bookings. Summer 2012
bookings from the U.K. are down 11 percent, outpacing the tour
operator’s 4 percent cut in capacity. The company said about 10
percent of holidays have been sold, in line with the same period
a year earlier. Average selling prices rose 10 percent as fuel
and accommodation costs increased, TUI Travel said.  “Our focus remains on differentiated products, maintaining
margins, prudent capacity management, and delivering our
turnaround and cost savings program,” Long said in a statement.  Analysts expect TUI Travel to report earnings before
interest and taxes of 477 million pounds ($737 million) when it
reports results for fiscal 2011 on Dec. 5, according to the
average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The tour
operator hasn’t specified a forecast figure.  TUI Travel shares have slumped 42 percent this year, while
 Thomas Cook  has plunged 79 percent after CEO Manny Fontenla- Novoa left and the company reduced profit forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  