-- 
Human Rights Watch Urges Sudan to End Crackdown on Opponents

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-22T14:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/human-rights-watch-urges-sudan-to-end-crackdown-on-opposition.html
The Sudanese government should end
its clampdown on opponents of President Umar al-Bashir’s
government and the press,  Human Rights Watch  said.  Authorities have arrested hundreds of suspected members of
 Sudan  People’s Liberation Movement-North, an opposition group
allied to the ruling party in neighboring South Sudan, closed
its offices and confiscated its property in towns across Sudan,
including in Darfur, the New York-based group said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The crackdown started after clashes erupted this month
between government forces and members of the SPLM-North in the
capital of the border state of Blue Nile, Al-Damazin, Human
Rights Watch said. Foreign Ministry spokesman Al-Obaid Murawih
described the report as “biased” and “inaccurate.”  “Increased repression will only breed further violence and
abuse,”  Daniel Bekele , Africa director at Human Rights Watch,
said in the statement. He urged the government to “promote
political debate in the face of its complicated political
challenges” rather than “trying to silence dissent by fear and
intimidation.”  Clashes in the Sudanese border states of Blue Nile and
Southern Kordofan erupted over the past three months after al-
Bashir’s government tried to disarm SPLM-North soldiers who
fought during a two-decade civil war with the forces of South
Sudan, which gained independence on July 9.  Government Reaction  “The report only covers what the Sudanese government did
while ignoring what SPLM and other parties are doing,” Murawih
said by phone from Khartoum today. “The government stance
toward SPLM members came as a reaction to the movement’s
excessive use of power against civilians.”  Security agents arrested 100 other alleged opponents in the
past three weeks, including Abdelmoniem Rahma, a writer, artist
and former government adviser on cultural affairs,  Human Rights
Watch  said.  The government this month also confiscated editions of four
local newspapers because they reported about the fighting in
Blue Nile or published articles by writers who oppose al-
Bashir’s ruling party, Human Rights Watch said.  The authorities confiscated the newspapers because they
supported the SPLM-North and the use of arms in civilian areas,
Murawih said.  The authorities ordered editors this month not to publish
statements of leaders of the SPLM-North or rebel groups in
Darfur, where government forces have been battling insurgents
for more than eight years, Human Rights Watch said.  “These restrictions on press freedom and access to
information stifle public dialogue about critical events
concerning citizens,” said Bekele. “It appears Sudanese
authorities are seeking to prevent public dialogue and keep
information from the public and the international community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  