-- 
Hungary Cuts 2012 Growth Forecast, Sees ‘Mid-Term’ Rate Cut

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-22T11:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hungarian-central-bank-sees-rate-cut-in-medium-term-correct-.html
Hungary ’s central bank lowered its
2012 economic-growth forecast in response to government plans to
raise taxes and said an interest-rate cut may come “only in the
mid-term” once the country’s  risk premium  declines.  The economy may grow 1 percent next year, compared with an
earlier estimate of 1.5 percent, the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said
today in a report. The budget deficit may be 3.4 percent of
gross domestic product, higher than the official 2.5 percent
target and lower than the bank’s previous 3.7 percent forecast.
Inflation may average 4.7 percent, exceeding the 3 percent goal
and an earlier “baseline” prediction of 3.9 percent.  Hungary’s economy is slowing as Western European demand for
its exports fades. Policy makers held the benchmark  interest
rate  at 6 percent for an eighth month on Sept. 20 as a plan to
help holders of Swiss-franc mortgages, whose monthly repayments
have risen due to the advance of the Alpine nation’s currency,
threatens the banking industry and weakens the forint.  “An interest-rate cut may be implemented only in the mid-
term after the decline of the risk premium,” the central bank
said in its quarterly Inflation Report. “The bad growth outlook
is primarily caused by the slowing world economy and problems
from  Europe ’s debt crisis, which reduce demand for our exports
and significantly hurt the economy’s financing conditions.”  The forint traded at 292.5 per euro at 12:26 p.m. in
Budapest, extending this month’s loss to 7.3 percent. Credit-
default swaps on government debt, which measure the cost of
insuring against non-payment, rose to 489 yesterday, the highest
since April 2009. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender,
plunged 7.4 percent to 3,110 forint and has lost a quarter of
its value this month.  Lower Forint  The forint has weakened after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
this month offered homeowners the chance to repay Swiss franc-
denominated mortgages ahead of schedule at exchange rates more
than 20 percent below market, forcing lenders to absorb losses.
The Hungarian Banking Association has criticized the plan.  The Inflation Report assumed the forint would “rapidly”
depreciate from 275 per euro before stabilizing at a lower
level, a scenario that has come to pass, central bank economist
Barnabas Virag told reporters today. “That lower currency level
is consistent with where the forint traded in recent weeks.”  The bank’s report reflects the latest government efforts to
improve public finances as well as a plan to raise the minimum
wage by 18 percent from next year, Virag said.  Public Finances  Hungary -- which is rated the lowest investment grade at
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s
-- is struggling to trim its  budget deficit  to less than 3
percent of GDP next year as slower growth cuts tax revenue.  The government is seeking 750 billion forint ($3.4 billion)
in budget savings next year, including 300 billion forint of
spending cuts and 150 billion forint an increase in the value-
added  tax rate  to a European Union-high of 27 percent from 25
percent. It originally targeted 550 billion forint of savings in
2012 as part of multiyear spending cuts.  “The growth outlook is made worse by the fact that it
makes further budgetary-corrective measures necessary,” the
central bank said. Economic growth may be 1.6 percent this year,
while average inflation may be 3.9 percent, it said.  The bank expects 20 percent of Hungary’s 18 billion euros
($24.6 billion) in foreign-currency mortgages to be repaid under
the government’s home-loan plan, President  Andras Simor  said
Sept 20. An offer to allow lenders to use the bank’s reserves as
demand for foreign currencies rises should “dampen” risks to
financial stability, he said.  The repayments will “cause significant losses” at local
banks, weakening their ability to boost lending and thus hurting
the country’s economic outlook, Simor said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  