-- 
United Technologies to Buy Goodrich for $16.5 Billion as Plane Orders Jump

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T21:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/united-technologies-to-buy-goodrich-for-16-5-billion-plans-to-sell-stock.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  agreed to
buy  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  for $16.5 billion, adding a maker of aircraft
landing gear and jet-turbine casings to take advantage of a
record surge in commercial plane orders.  The acquisition caps a years-long pursuit by United
Technologies, whose aviation brands include  Pratt & Whitney  jet
engines and Sikorsky helicopters. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  plans to fold his Hamilton Sundstrand aviation
equipment and Goodrich into UTC Aerospace Systems, based in
Goodrich’s hometown of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  United Technologies’ bid represents a premium of 47 percent
to Goodrich’s closing share price on Sept. 15, the day before
talks were reported. Excluding Goodrich, the conglomerate has
paid an average premium of 18 percent in almost 30 deals for
which terms were disclosed since 2001.  “It certainly is a handsome premium, but I think it’s a
great deal on both sides,” said Heidi Wood, a New York-based
analyst with Morgan Stanley. “Louis can say, ‘Look, I’ve got
engines, I’ve got power systems, I’ve got wheels and brakes. You
don’t have to go anywhere else.”  The deal’s enterprise value is $18.4 billion, including
$1.9 billion in net debt, the companies said yesterday. Goodrich
stockholders will get $127.50 a share as Hartford, Connecticut-
based United Technologies finances about 25 percent of the
purchase with equity and the rest with new debt.  ‘Sacrosanct’  Credit Rating   Share repurchases will be suspended in 2012 and reduced as
much as 50 percent in 2013 and 2014, United Technologies
executives said on a conference call with analysts and
investors.  That will help the company repay most of the $12 billion it
expects to borrow within five years, since United Technologies
generates more than $5 billion of annual  cash flow , Chief
Financial Officer Greg Hayes said on the call.  “Keeping the credit rating especially in times like this,
I mean it is sacrosanct,” he said. “We knew that we had to do
a little bit in terms of equity to hold the rating and we would
have to suspend share buyback, but again, the deal makes sense
even with the issuance of 25 percent equity. In fact, it makes a
heck of a lot of sense.”  Moody’s Investors Service has an A2 credit rating for
 United Technologies , and  Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt as A.
Both reaffirmed their ratings today, while S&P lowered its
outlook to negative from stable.  Deal Valuation  Without net debt, the price represents a multiple of 11.8
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, trailing the median of 12.3 times for
aerospace takeovers greater than $500 million in the last five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chenevert’s acquisition marks one of the industry’s largest
deals and the first big aerospace purchase for United
Technologies since the 1999 takeover of Sundstrand Corp. for $4
billion. It’s also the first major deal by Chenevert, 54, who
rose to become CEO in 2008 after running Pratt & Whitney.  In businesses such as those run by United Technologies,
results are often measured by decades not quarters, Chenevert
said in the interview. He cited the $1 billion investment over a
decade to develop the geared turbofan engine at Pratt & Whitney
and new electrical systems for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner.  ‘Spectacular’ Outlook  “As far as the Goodrich property, I mean, it’s the same
thing,” he said. “I didn’t pursue Goodrich because it’s good
for me in ‘12 or ‘13, I did it because it’s spectacular what it
does 10 years out.”  Based on 2011 estimates, the purchase adds sales of about
$8 billion a year, boosting revenue to $66 billion for United
Technologies, which also makes Sikorsky helicopters and Otis
elevators. Goodrich is the world’s largest producer of aircraft
landing gear and its lineup includes nacelles, the casings that
house jet engines, and de-icing systems used on planes. Marshall
Larsen, its CEO, will head UTC Aerospace Systems.  Goodrich surged 11 percent to $120.60 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. United Technologies slid
$6.56, or 8.8 percent, to $68.31. It closed at $75.61 the day
before the deal was reported.  “The transaction may cause other suppliers to consider
their strategic options,”  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co.
analyst in New York, wrote in a note to clients today. “For the
moment, we do not anticipate further combinations of similar
scale. However, it would not surprise us if moderately sized
companies find cause to combine to support or enhance their
product lines.”  Geared Turbofan  Adding commercial aerospace revenue would be a boost for
United Technologies after Pratt’s geared turbofan engine failed
to win placement on Boeing’s upgraded 737, the world’s most
widely flown jetliner. The engine, which Chenevert spent more
than $1 billion and a decade developing, is a choice on Airbus
SAS’s upgraded A320neo family, a 737 rival.  While there is little product overlap between the two
companies, United Technologies expects the U.S. Justice
department to make what’s called a second request for a detailed
review of the transaction, Chenevert said. A small number of
product lines may have to be divested. The acquisition should
close in the second or third quarter of next year, he said.  “There’s a lot of tough work ahead,” Chenevert said,
noting he’s made calls to customers already.  “Reaction is very
positive. We always focus on them and the value. It’s all in our
current track record. They know we’re not going to change. I
gave them my personal commitment that they’re my priority one.”  United Technologies agreed to pay Goodrich a breakup fee of
$500 million, according to a regulatory filing today.  ‘Superb Deal Experience’  United Technologies signaled its interest in a new approach
to acquisitions in March, when Chenevert promotedWilliam Brown
to lead deals and growth initiatives. Brown previously headed
UTC Fire & Security, a role in which he completed more than 40
acquisitions.  “I felt to get a larger transaction done, I needed
somebody by my side that had superb deal experience,” Chenevert
said today in an interview. “When you do small deals, it kind
of happens in the business units. When you get a public company
like this one, there’s a lot more complexity to it.”  Only in the last few days did it become clear that the
approach was likely to lead to a deal, said a person familiar
with the talks.  Due Diligence  United Technologies executives had just one day -- Sept. 20
-- with full access to Goodrich’s books, this person said. That
night, after the review was complete, Chenevert confirmed he was
still committed to the $127.50-a-share price at a dinner with
Larsen at the St. Regis Hotel in New York, the person said.
Chenevert and his predecessor, George David, have often used the
site for delicate negotiations and investor meetings.  Brown’s move into the acquisitions role followed what
analysts said were rare missteps by United Technologies,
including an approach to automated teller machine-maker Diebold
Inc. in February 2008. That offer was rescinded in October of
the same year after due-diligence requests were spurned.  Goodrich reported sales of $6.97 billion last year,
compared with $54.3 billion for United Technologies. Chenevert’s
three aerospace businesses -- Pratt, Sikorsky and Hamilton
Sundstrand -- made up $22.23 billion of that total.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
financial advisers for United Technologies while Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz are providing legal counsel. Credit Suisse
Group AG and Citigroup Inc. are providing financial advice to
Goodrich and  Jones Day  is legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  