-- 
University of Pittsburgh Gets $125 Million From Steel Executive

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T22:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/university-of-pittsburgh-gets-125-million-from-steel-executive.html
The University of Pittsburgh
received a pledge for $125 million, the largest gift in its
history, from retired steel executive William Dietrich two weeks
after he said he would donate $265 million to  Carnegie Mellon
University .  The gift will be in the form of a fund that begins
operating upon Dietrich’s death, the Pittsburgh-based university
said today in a  statement  on its website. Its school of arts and
sciences will be renamed after Dietrich’s father.  Dietrich, 73, is the former chairman and president of
Dietrich Industries Inc., a Pittsburgh-based steelmaker now
owned by  Worthington Industries Inc. (WOR)   He is a trustee at the
University of Pittsburgh, where he earned master’s and doctoral
degrees in political science.  “As a graduate who personally benefited from my own
studies at Pitt, I want to ensure that the university can
continue to provide educational opportunities of the highest
quality to its undergraduate and graduate students,” Dietrich
said in the statement.  His donation to Carnegie Mellon, another Pittsburgh
university where he is a trustee, was the largest in that
school’s history. Carnegie Mellon’s college of humanities
will be named after Dietrich’s mother. The gift was announced
Sept. 7.  The  University of Pittsburgh  was founded as a private
institution in 1787 and became a state-related school in 1966,
according to its website. The university has more than 35,000
students on five campuses. Former students include the late
actor Gene Kelly, author Michael Chabon and Mike Ditka, a former
professional football player and coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  