-- 
Turkey-Israel Business Boom Obscured in Erdogan Rant Against Trade Partner

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-22T22:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/turkey-israel-business-boom-obscured-in-erdogan-rant-against-trade-partner.html
Turkish television star  Kivanc
Tatlitug  made his debut on Israeli screens last month in a sign
that commercial ties are surviving the political rift between
the two countries.  As Tatlitug’s soap opera, “Menekse and Halil,” airs in
Israel, business between the two countries is booming. Trade has
risen  30 percent  since January and sales of Turkish-made cars
such as Ford Motor Co.’s Connect vans and  Renault SA (RNO) ’s Clio
doubled in Israel last year. Flowing in the opposite direction,
refined fuels and industrial machinery powered a 40 percent jump
in Israel exports to Turkey last year.  Trade is rising even after a diplomatic furor sparked by
the killing of Turkish activists by Israeli commandoes during a
May 2010 raid on an aid ship bound for the  Gaza Strip . While
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  downgraded relations
this month after Israel refused to apologize for the incident,
ministers and business leaders in both nations lined up to argue
that trade ties should be shielded from the fallout.  “Both countries need each other,” said Menashe Carmon,
president of the Israel- Turkey  Business Council. Business ties
“are long-term and in private sector hands. Those are
continuing without any change,” said Carmon, who’s a director
of Turkey’s Bank Pozitif Kredi & Kalkinma Bankasi AS, which is
owned by Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s second-biggest bank by
assets.  Losing Turkey  Israel and Turkey forged close relations over four decades
as key U.S. allies in the Middle East. While that military
alliance has ruptured, executives need to keep trade flowing as
the threat of a U.S. recession and the euro region’s worsening
debt crisis dim their growth prospects.  Turkey’s central bank cut  interest rates  to a record low of
5.75 percent on Aug. 4 citing the risk of recession in the
European Union, the destination of half of Turkey’s exports. In
 Israel , sales to the U.S., which buys about one-third of its
exports, dropped an annual 29 percent in the three months
through August.  Losing Turkey as a trade partner would hurt,  Stanley Fischer , governor of the  Bank of Israel , said Sept. 6.  “In terms of the sophisticated economies in the region,
which is where we export most successfully, it is the most
important,” he said.  ‘More Careful’  For now, trade across the Mediterranean between the two
countries may help soften the blow from a global slowdown.
Turkey bought 3 percent of all Israel’s exports in the year to
August, making the market worth $1.3 billion. That’s 40 percent
higher than a year earlier. Refined petroleum products from
companies such as Haifa-based  Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL) , the country’s
largest refiner, made up almost a quarter of Israeli sales in
Turkey last year, according to the Turkish Economy Ministry.  Turkey relied on Israel for 1.8 percent of its total
exports in the first seven months of the year, led by autos,
metals and machinery, according to Turkey’s statistics agency.
At $1.4 billion, the total was 20 percent higher than a year
ago.  ‘At this stage, we shouldn’t expect anything to change in
the private sector,” said Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at
Ekspres Invest, an Istanbul-based brokerage owned by Belgian
bank Dexia SA. “The important thing is whether this situation
will last or not. If the political tension with Israel is here
to stay, then, naturally, the private sector will be more
careful about deepening economic relations, though that is not
the same thing as severing existing ties.”  ‘Separate Issue’  About 10 percent of Israeli car imports in the eight months
through August were made in Turkey, with models by  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)  and Renault the top sellers, according to the Israeli
Vehicle Importers Association. Israel’s $330 million car market
was Turkey’s biggest outside  Europe , according to Turkey’s auto
industry association.  Billionaire Ahmet Nazif Zorlu may be the Turk with the most
at stake in Israel, and he says politics and business shouldn’t
mix. Zorlu, whose Vestel Elektronik Sanayi & Ticaret AS can make
15 million television sets a year, said he doesn’t intend to
abandon the $1.3 billion his companies have invested in power
generation in Israel.  “The Turkish government has its justified reasons but
that’s a separate issue and doesn’t bind investors,” he told
Dunya newspaper on Sept. 7. “We don’t have the luxury to just
pack up and leave.”  The diplomatic breakdown is nevertheless rattling some
investors. Oil Refineries shares have fallen 13 percent since
Erdogan announced the break in relations on Sept. 2, while Bank
Hapoalim, Israel’s second-biggest bank by assets, dropped 11
percent. The benchmark TA-25 index fell 8.2 percent.  Gaza Blockade  Erdogan suspended military ties with Israel and downgraded
diplomatic relations, saying there will be no rapprochement
until Israel apologizes for last year’s killings, pays
compensation and lifts the embargo on Gaza. A United Nations
report into the events said Israel’s naval blockade is legal and
the country is entitled to enforce it, though its effort to stop
the aid flotilla was “excessive and unreasonable.”  As political relations deteriorate both countries have the
cushion of growth rates surpassing those of their western
trading partners. Turkish output is set to grow 6.6 percent this
year and Israel’s by 4.8 percent, the  International Monetary
Fund  forecast this week. That compares with the fund’s
prediction of 1.6 percent overall growth in developed economies.  ‘Spoiled Child’  While Erdogan was calling Israel a “spoiled child,” Zafer Caglayan, his minister responsible for trade, said Israel is a
good commercial partner and Turkey isn’t considering trade
sanctions. Both have said Turkey’s quarrel is with the Israeli
government, not individuals or businesses.  “We have to make a serious attempt to improve the
relationship with Turkey,” Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said in a Sept. 20 interview. It’s “very important for
us, for the Turks, and actually for the entire region.”  Ozlem Ozsumbul, foreign and domestic sales manager at Dogan
Yayin’s Kanal D, which is the broadcaster of “Menekse and
Halil,” says its story of lovers separated by borders resonates
with audiences across the  Middle East .  “There are a lot of commonalities with Israel, Turkey
isn’t in a different place,” she said in a telephone interview
from Istanbul. “In the end, we too fall in love, get sad, cry
and die like everyone else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 