-- 
Lira Drops to Record; ING Sees ‘Good Trade’ to Emerging Peers

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-22T18:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/turkey-lira-up-on-prospect-of-gains-versus-emerging-market-peers.html
The Turkish lira weakened to a
record low against the dollar amid concern central banks are
running out of tools to prevent another recession. Its drop this
year makes the lira a “good trade” versus other emerging-
market currencies, ING Groep NV said.  The lira slumped 1 percent to 1.8452 by 6:54 p.m. in
Istanbul, the weakest level since at least 1981, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The very poor performance of the lira year-to-date makes
it a good trade against other emerging-market currencies,” Onur Aydogan, a trader at ING in Istanbul, said by email. “Long
Turkish lira short South African rand, long lira short Hungarian
forint have been popular trade recommendations.”  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it saw “significant
downside risks” in the  U.S. economy  and that it would replace
$400 billion of short-term debt with longer-dated Treasuries to
spur growth.  Turkey ’s central bank offered $70 million to buy
lira in an auction today to help prop up the currency. Central
bank Governor Erdem Basci said the currency is undervalued on
Aug. 15.  South Africa ’s rand weakened against the lira for a fifth
day, dropping 2.5 percent. Hungary’s forint snapped two days of
gains to slip 0.6 percent against Turkey’s currency, and the
zloty retreated 2 percent versus the lira.  ‘Trading Very Well’  “The lira has been trading very well since the beginning
of the month against its peers such as the South African rand,
Polish zloty, Hungarian forint and Brazilian real,” said Emir Baruh, a currency trader at Akbank TAS. “We are seeing
consolidation against other emerging markets; funds are trying
to catch up as the lira has been sold aggressively since the
beginning of the year.”  The lira had been the world’s second worst-performing
emerging-market currency this year, depreciating 16 percent
against the dollar as central bank measures to boost exports and
narrow the current-account deficit while stimulating growth took
effect.  BNP Paribas SA said today it closed its trade of lira
against the rand, netting a 10 percent profit in two weeks after
buying at 4.06 and closing at 4.53.  “It’s not that I think the lira cannot go further up
against the rand, but 10 percent on this cross in two weeks is
more than enough,” said  Bartosz Pawlowski , who heads emerging
markets and foreign currency strategy at BNP Paribas. “The lira
has done its share of weakening, and it seems that central banks
across the world are doing what the central bank of Turkey
started doing” last year, he said.  The benchmark Turkish ISE National 100 Equities Index lost
2,847.99, or 4.7 percent, to 57,979.90. Yields on two-year
benchmark bonds surged 34 basis points to 8.5 percent, the
highest since Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  