-- 
Victor Japan Credit-Default Swaps Triggered by Restructuring

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-09-22T06:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/victor-japan-credit-default-swaps-triggered-by-restructuring-1-.html
Credit-default swaps insuring debt
of Victor Company of  Japan  Ltd., a unit of JVC Kenwood Corp.,
will be paid out after the manufacturer restructured payment on
its debt, the International Swaps & Derivatives Association
said.  Victor triggered a so-called restructuring  credit event 
when it agreed with its bondholders to extend the maturity of 12
billion yen ($156 million) in bonds last month, ISDA’s Japan
Determinations Committee ruled yesterday. Out of 15 committee
members, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. voted
against the decision.  The committee’s ruling came after four meetings failed to
reach a conclusion. This is the first credit event in Japan
since consumer lender Takefuji Corp.’s bankruptcy triggered
payout of the swaps in October 2010, and the first restructuring
event since Aiful Corp. won approval from creditors for a debt
restructuring plan in December 2009.  “The issue seems to have been whether the restructuring is
due to the deterioration in Victor’s financial affairs or not,”
said Akira Nomura, a credit analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.
“Since the company used to be a member of the Markit iTraxx
Japan index, an auction to settle the swaps is likely to be
held.”  A net $314.7 million of protection on Victor was
outstanding as of Sept. 16, the latest data from Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. show.  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, fall as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve and rise as they deteriorate. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of bonds and loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  