-- 
Visa, MasterCard to Raise Small-Purchase Fees, Analyst Says

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-22T16:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/visa-mastercard-to-raise-fees-on-small-purchases-analyst-says.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
world’s largest consumer-payment networks, will raise debit-card
fees charged for small-ticket purchases to the full amount
allowed under new rules, according to an analyst.  Visa, the world’s largest network, and No. 2 MasterCard may
increase fees from 8 cents on a $2 purchase to 23 cents, Thomas McCrohan, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, wrote in a
note. They will eliminate the so-called interchange portion of
the fee, charging the highest amount allowed by rules announced
in June, McCrohan said yesterday in an interview.  The change “will kill the economics for small-ticket debit
purchases and influence a shift back to credit cards,” McCrohan
wrote. “It will almost certainly lead to a merchant revolt
against the card networks.”  The  Federal Reserve  said June 29 that U.S. debit-card
transaction fees, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, can’t exceed
24 cents on an average transaction, replacing a formula that
averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44 cents.
The limits, championed by U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , an
Illinois Democrat, spurred banks to curtail debit-card rewards
programs and add fees for checking accounts.  The fee increase could be an attempt by San Francisco-based
Visa and MasterCard to recoup fees for banks, to affect consumer
use of mobile payment services or to influence a pending
lawsuit, McCrohan wrote. The caps may reduce revenue at U.S.
banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.  MasterCard’s Interchange Structure  “MasterCard recently informed our issuers that we will
implement a two-tiered interchange structure,” James Issokson,
a spokesman at Purchase, New York-based MasterCard, said in an
e-mailed statement. “As we have noted throughout this process,
setting price caps will -- and has -- created distortions in the
market.”  Will Valentine, a Visa spokesman, declined to comment.  The Fed capped debit fees at 21 cents per swipe. It will
let issuers tack on 5 basis points of each transaction, or
almost 2 cents based on the average debit ticket of $38, and a
conditional 1-cent adjustment for lenders that follow certain
fraud-prevention standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 