-- 
Volvo Aims for Profit Margins at Top of Heavy-Equipment Industry

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-22T08:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/volvo-aims-for-profit-margins-at-top-of-heavy-equipment-industry.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-
largest truckmaker, plans to target operating margins at the top
of the heavy-equipment industry as it shifts its focus to
profitability from sales growth.  Volvo will set profit goals based on the performance of its
leading competitors in manufacturing trucks, construction
equipment, buses and marine engines, the Gothenburg, Sweden-
based company said today in a statement. The new targets will
begin next year and replace goals set in 2006 that called for
profit from industrial operations equivalent to at least 7
percent of sales and for annual sales growth of 10 percent.  “The goals show Volvo’s ambition” and will likely be “a
good bit over 10 percent,” said Christer Gardell, whose Violet
Partners LP is Volvo’s third-largest shareholder by votes.
“It’s good with a clear focus on profitability.”  Volvo posted a first-half return on sales of 9.4 percent,
up from 5.9 percent a year earlier, as revenue advanced 18
percent on a rebound in truck demand from the financial crisis.
The Swedish company cut thousands of jobs during the last global
economic recession to streamline its operations.  The company hasn’t yet formulated how the new targets
translate into actual figures, spokesman Marten Wikforss said
today by phone.  Stock Drop  The Swedish manufacturer declined as much as 4.3 percent
and was down 3.9 percent at 69.70 kronor at 10:49 p.m. in
 Stockholm , valuing the company at 148.7 billion kronor ($21.8
billion). The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was down 3.4 percent after
the  Federal Reserve  signaled “significant downside risks” in
the  U.S. economy  and Moody’s Investors Service cut credit
ratings on three banks.  “The new targets are pretty aggressive,” said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at Sydbank A/S, who has an “overweight”
rating on the stock. The stock is down “more because of bad
macro news that’s taking down the whole market today than
because of the new targets.”  Volvo will set sales growth and margin targets for trucks
and buses based on the performance of competitors, including
 Scania AB (SCVB) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) , MAN SE, and Fiat Industrial SpA’s Iveco.
Volvo’s construction equipment and Penta marine engine business
will be benchmarked against companies including  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) ,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and Fiat Industrial’s CNH.  “While growth will remain important in the future, the
board is of the opinion that the prerequisites are now in place
to also set new profitability targets,” Chairman Louis Schweitzer said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  