-- 
Weak Demand, Rules Crimp U.S. Small Business Lending Fund

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-22T23:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/weak-demand-crimps-u-s-lending-fund.html
A U.S. Treasury Department program
to stimulate job growth by injecting $30 billion into banks for
small-business lending has disbursed just $2.4 billion, with
lenders and industry groups saying it fell victim to the
sputtering economy and overly stringent rules.  President  Barack Obama  praised the Small Business Lending
Fund last year as key to his efforts to create jobs by ensuring
credit-starved companies got the loans they needed to expand.
The program, which ends Sept. 27, rewarded qualified community
banks with funding that cost as little as 1 percent if they
boosted small-business loans by 10 percent or more. Treasury
said it had given preliminary approval to $4.3 billion of the
investments.  Weak demand and stiff requirements discouraged applications
or prevented some banks from gaining access, according to
community bankers, industry associations and state regulators.
Some lenders that succeeded in getting funds said they have
managed to meet loan growth targets by poaching customers from
weaker competitors, providing little net benefit to the stalled
economy.  U.S. consumer confidence dropped last week to the weakest
point since the recession ended in June 2009, and the labor
market showed few signs of improving. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell to minus 52.1 in the period to Sept. 18 from
minus 49.3. Today’s Labor Department report showed the average
number of claims in the past month climbed for a fifth straight
week, to the highest level since July 16.  ‘Met Target’  “We met our 10 percent target and expect to do more, but,
frankly, a lot of the customers we get we steal from the
others,” said John Dalby, chief executive officer of  Redwood
Capital Bancorp (RWCB)  in Eureka, California, which received a $7.3
million SBLF investment.  Some bankers and their advisers said that the Treasury was
too restrictive in its  application rules  so that even some
healthy banks were turned down.  “There are some well-run, well-capitalized banks people
said ‘no’ to, and today they are scratching their heads asking,
’Why?’” said  Lawrence Kaplan , a partner at Paul Hastings
Janofsky & Walker LLP, which represents banks who applied to the
program. “You have a controversial program but then you have a
controversial implementation of a program.”  Frank Keating , president of the  American Bankers
Association , wrote a letter to the Treasury on Sept. 13, asking
why “viable banks that are located in the hardest-hit parts of
the country where economic growth is needed” weren’t accepted.  Few Borrowers  Ultimately, bankers said that the program wasn’t more
widely embraced as few creditworthy small businesses want to
borrow. The U.S. unemployment rate remained at 9.1 percent in
August.  “Until you start to see the economy improve and job growth
you won’t see lots of loan demand,” said Thomas Dorr, chief
financial officer of Bank of Birmingham in  Michigan , which
received $4.6 million from the program. “You can’t force banks
to lend.”  He said that his bank in Birmingham, an affluent area
outside  Detroit , has a small portfolio and needs to add $3.4
million in credits in the first year to hit its target.  More small-business loans are being repaid than renewed.
Commercial and industrial loans of $1 million or less to small
businesses fell to $283 billion at the end of June from $309.95
billion on June 30 of last year, according to a Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. quarterly report.  Adequate Financing  A growing number of businesses say they have all the
financing they need. In its mid-year economic survey, released
last month, the  National Small Business Association  said 64
percent of businesses reported having adequate financing, up
from 59 percent a year earlier, and 36 percent said they were
unable to obtain adequate financing, down from 41 percent.  Treasury said the program is needed. “We hear from small
businesses that they want to expand and bring on new employees,
but accessing capital is still a challenge,” Don Graves, the
department’s deputy assistant secretary for small business, said
in an e-mail. “The SBLF helps address that challenge by
providing billions of dollars to Main Street banks.”  Repaying Loans  Keith Leibfried, CEO of First Federal Bank of  Florida  in
Lake City, which received $20 million from the SBLF, said
boosting loans was difficult because small businesses in his
region were repaying loans, not seeking new ones, making it
harder for him to expand his portfolio.  “Our loans are probably going to be refinancing the loans
that were made by other institutions,” he said. “I’m not sure
how many new borrowers are going to be generated from this
effort.”  Under the program, banks with  less than $10 billion in
assets  could apply after proving themselves healthy and getting
approval from regulators. The Treasury makes investments in the
banks, with the initial dividend set at 5 percent, and adjusted
depending on the volume of increased small-business loans. If
banks fail to increase lending, the dividend can rise as high as
9 percent.  Treasury said it gave preliminary approval to 382 banks
under the program. As of Sept. 14, 191 banks received $2.4
billion. Of that total, 89 used the capital to repay taxpayer
money they had received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
according to an analysis by KBW Inc.  “It was a small program overall and to find only 382 banks
nationwide eligible to participate was certainly
disappointing,” said Ray Grace,  North Carolina ’s chief deputy
commissioner of banks. He said 28 banks in his state applied for
$447 million; Treasury approved seven for $99.2 million.  Loan Restrictions  The program included a restriction that loans made under a
separate Small Business Administration designation would not
qualify in the calculations of overall credit growth for
determining the dividend payments under SBLF. That would amount
to permitting banks to double-count the loans, the Treasury
said.  Then the Treasury decided that banks that previously had
been prevented by their regulators from paying dividends to
shareholders, a measure normally taken when the bank has poor
earnings or has unhealthy levels of loan losses, would have to
obtain waivers to participate in the SBLF.  “The application and term sheet made everything seem so
easy,” said Jon Winick, president of Chicago-based Clark Street
Capital Management LLC, which assists banks in applying for the
program. “They got a lot of people to apply and then, as the
rules came out, the program became less attractive.”  ‘Disappointed’ in Pace  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a hearing
June 22 that he was “disappointed” in the pace of the program.
“The regulators are being careful and that’s what you want us
to do,” Geithner said at a House Small Business Committee
hearing.  The  Independent Community Bankers of America , which
represents almost 5,000 institutions, sent the  Federal Reserve  a
letter in August saying the central bank hadn’t given banks
dividend waivers to participate in the program, jeopardizing
approval of applicants.  The Fed responded in a letter to the ICBA that its
responsibility is first to protect depositors and “respectfully
declines to release the requirements of any informal or formal
enforcement actions solely to facilitate participation in the
SBLF program.”  In a white paper released on Sept. 6, Treasury said more
than 40 percent of community-bank applicants failed to meet the
minimum statutory requirements of the program.  Dividend Requirement  Treasury said the dividend requirement was necessary.
“Banks that increase their small-business lending pay lower
dividends,” Graves said. “It simply would not make sense to
invest in institutions that cannot pay dividends, as those banks
would have little incentive to increase small-business
lending.”  Banks that did get accepted into the program said they had
more trouble finding qualified customers than raising capital.  “They have too much capital, if anything,” said Jennifer Thompson, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York . “It
does come down to the credit-quality issue. Very few
creditworthy borrowers want loans because of the economy.”  Gregory Mitchell, CEO of Pacific Trust Bank in Chula Vista,
 California , said he is using $32 million of SBLF funds to fuel
acquisitions so his institution can expand.  “We’ve been growing by taking business from our
competitors,” said Mitchell, whose bank has $863.6 million in
assets.  New Loans  Some banks that have gotten funding attest to its
usefulness. Tom Swenson, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank of
 Montana , in Missoula, Montana, received $1.46 million and said
he has already made new loans to an auto dealer to finance
energy-efficient equipment and facilities and to a brewery for
recycling bottles.  “It’s very difficult to earn your way to more capital,”
Swenson said. “This shot in the arm allows us to keep on
lending and keep on growing.”  The loan the bank extended to Bayern Brewing Co. in
Missoula, maker of beers like Dump Truck Summer Bock and
Dragon’s Breath Dark Hefeweizen, enabled the brewery to buy new
equipment that will make it possible to add jobs, said founder
Jurgen Knoller.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  