-- 
Weak U.K. Growth Underlines Case to Slow Down Budget Cuts, Balls Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-23T09:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/weak-u-k-growth-underlines-case-to-slow-budget-cuts-balls-says.html
The U.K. government appears
“paralyzed” with the economy at risk of sliding back into
recession, said the opposition Labour Party’s finance spokesman,
 Ed Balls , renewing an attack on the pace of deficit reduction.  Balls will step up his demands for Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to adopt
a Plan B when Labour activists gather for their annual
conference next week in Liverpool, northwest  England .  “They need to act but they seem paralyzed in the face of
the facts,” Balls said in a telephone interview yesterday. “No
growth and rising unemployment are very bad for deficits. This
is not simply a sovereign-debt crisis, it’s a global growth
crisis. We can’t have credibility without growth.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 and 2012 U.K.
growth forecasts this week to 1.1 percent and 1.6 percent
respectively, and the head of the government’s fiscal watchdog,
the  Office for Budget Responsibility , signaled he was likely to
follow suit.  Bank of England officials are already considering
restarting their bond-purchase program and the junior coalition
partners, the Liberal Democrats, are discussing the need to
speed up capital spending to boost flagging demand.  Figures released last week showed unemployment increased by
80,000 in the May-to-July period from the previous three months
as measured by the internationally agreed gauge. Gross domestic
product expanded just 0.2 percent in the nine months through
June and gauges of manufacturing, services and construction
growth all declined in August.  Conference Season  Labour’s annual get-together  is taking place between the
conferences of the two parties in the governing coalition: the
Liberal Democrats, who held their conference this week, and
Cameron’s and Osborne’s Conservatives, who convene Oct. 2. Both
have taken every opportunity to blame Labour for the country’s
economic woes.  “Labour got us into this mess,” the Liberal Democrat
leader, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , told his party in
Birmingham Sept. 21. “Labour’s economy was based on bad debt
and false hope. Don’t forget the chaos and fear of 2008. And
never, ever trust Labour with the economy again.”  Labour Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  and Chancellor Alastair Darling ran up a record deficit of 11 percent of GDP after the
financial crisis plunged Britain into its worst recession since
World War II. After ousting Labour at the May 2010 election, the
coalition opted for one of the tightest fiscal squeezes among
developed nations, with the forecast loss of more than 300,000
public-sector jobs, in an effort to balance the budget.  AAA Rating  Osborne has rejected Balls’s suggestions of cuts in  sales
tax  and increased infrastructure spending to provide a spur to
growth, arguing that the priority is to narrow the budget gap
and retain Britain’s top credit rating.  For  Alan Clarke , chief U.K. economist at Scotia Capital
Europe Ltd. in London, the strategy is paying off.  “In relative terms the U.K.’s not doing that much worse
than our counterparts,” Clarke said in a telephone interview.
“Most importantly, the U.K. has convinced the market to give it
the benefit of the doubt. We’ve got safe-haven flows, and that’s
priceless.”  The government argues its  deficit-reduction  program is
shielding Britain from the debt crisis engulfing the euro
region, pushing down U.K. borrowing costs to record lows in a
boost for consumers and companies. Ten-year gilts yielded 2.35
percent as of 10:30 a.m. in London today, compared with rates of
more than 5 percent on Italian and Spanish government debt.  ‘Credit’ With Investors  “I think we’re getting credit in the market for having a
clear and properly thought-through plan and we will stick to
delivering that plan,” Transport Secretary Philip Hammond said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television from  Hong Kong  today.
“Of course in parallel with that we need to stimulate economic
growth.”  Balls argues the fall in yields reflects a darkening view
of the economy. “The reason why long-term  interest rates  are so
low is less about safe-haven flows and more about deep market
pessimism,” he said.  The recent poor economic news has led  Liberal Democrats 
within the Cabinet to float in private the possibility of
bringing forward  capital spending , according to a lawmaker
familiar with the discussions. The  BBC  reported Sept. 20 that
ministers were discussing increasing the infrastructure budget
by as much as 5 billion pounds ($8 billion), without saying
where it got its information.  Potential Damage  Osborne is resistant to such arguments, according to two
coalition lawmakers familiar with his thinking, and takes the
view that any stimulus from looser fiscal policy would be
outweighed by damage done from rising interest rates if
investors doubted his commitment to spending cuts.  “Five billion isn’t going to save us,” said Clarke.
“It’s 0.3 percent of GDP. It’s not even going to touch the
sides. If we lost the faith of the  bond market  the situation
would be considerably worse.”  Even so,  Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec
Securities in  London , said he could imagine a time coming when
the Treasury decided to change course.  “There’s a juncture where the thing to do is say it’s
appropriate to ease fiscal policy, because it’s the least-worst
of the options,” he said in a telephone interview. “We’re not
there yet. But it would be surprising given what’s happening if
the government wasn’t thinking ‘what if?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 