-- 
Wheat Falls Most Since June as Slowing World Economy Will Sap Grain Demand

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/wheat-falls-to-10-week-low-as-economic-concerns-may-sap-commodity-demand.html
Wheat futures plunged the most
since June on concern that demand will decrease as economic
growth slows in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
tumbled to a nine-month low and global equities dropped after
the  Federal Reserve  said that the  U.S. economy  faces
“significant downside risks.” More Americans than forecast
filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance last week,
the Labor Department said today. China’s manufacturing may drop
this month, a preliminary index of purchasing managers showed.  Wheat is “being caught in the swing to the downside due to
concerns in the financial markets,”  Tom Leffler , the owner of
Leffler Commodities LLC, said by telephone from Augusta, Kansas.
“There is a huge lack of confidence out there, not only in the
U.S.”  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 33 cents, or
4.9 percent, to settle at $6.3375 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest drop since June 30. Earlier,
the price touched $6.3225, the lowest for a most-active contract
since July 12. The commodity has slumped 20 percent this month.  Prospects for increasing world output also pressured
futures. Farmers worldwide may harvest 678.9 million metric tons
of wheat this year, the International Grains Council said today,
above last month’s estimate of 677.1 million tons.  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer, bought 240,000
tons from Russia in a tender today, shunning U.S. supplies.
Russia, once the second-largest exporter, lifted a ban on
shipments July 1 following drought last year.  “The  Black Sea region  continues to export wheat at a crazy
rate,” Leffler said. “It’s not good for our wheat prices.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show. The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  