-- 
Wheat Declines to Two-Month Low as Slowing Global Economy May Curb Demand

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-22T09:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/wheat-declines-to-two-month-low-as-slowing-global-economy-may-curb-demand.html
Wheat slumped to the lowest price
in more than two months in  Chicago , and corn and soybeans also
declined, on increasing concern that slowing global economic
growth will weigh on demand.  December-delivery wheat dropped as much as 3 percent to
$6.47 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the lowest for a
most-active contract since July 12, and traded at $6.4775 a
bushel at 11:33 a.m. Paris time.  The U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday cited “significant
downside risks” to the economic outlook, including strains in
global financial markets. Two days ago, the  International
Monetary Fund  cut its global growth forecast and predicted
severe repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis
or U.S. policy makers become deadlocked over fiscal plans.  “The operators are worried about demand for agricultural
commodities, with global growth again revised downwards in the
past days,” Bourges, France-based farm adviser Offre et
 Demande Agricole  said in a daily e-mailed comment.  Milling wheat for November delivery dropped as much as 2.5
percent to 191.75 euros ($259.40) a metric ton on NYSE Euronext
in Paris, the lowest since Aug. 10.  Corn for December-delivery fell 2.4 percent to
$6.695 a bushel in Chicago. November-delivery soybeans dropped
1.9 percent to $12.96 a bushel.  “We’re seeing a big sell-off in risk financially across
commodities,”  Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at
National Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from Sydney.
“That’s really a major driver in the short-term.”  Economic uncertainties are overshadowing concerns about
weather-related risks to global grain supply, Pitts said.  Wet and cool conditions that are unfavorable for maturing
crops may prevail in the northern U.S. plains over the next few
days, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday.  Bad Weather  “The weather situation in the U.S. hasn’t necessarily
improved,” Pitts said. “That should be supportive for the
market, but we’re not seeing that.”  Corn farmers in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter,
are harvesting at a slower pace than last year after cold
weather hindered crop maturity in fields already delayed by
planting-season rains.  An estimated 10 percent of the corn crop in the U.S.’s top
18 producing states had been harvested as of Sept. 18, less
than the 18 percent pace of a year earlier and the previous
five-year average of 11 percent, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Sept. 19. About 51 percent of the crop was in
good or excellent condition, down from 53 percent a week
earlier and less than 68 percent a year ago, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net 
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 