-- 
Why Identifying a Bubble Is So Much Trouble: John H. Cochrane

-- B y   J o h n   H .   C o c h r a n e
-- 
2011-09-22T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/why-identifying-a-bubble-is-so-much-trouble-john-h-cochrane.html
We seem to be surrounded by
“bubbles” -- tech stocks, real estate, and now maybe sovereign
debt.  You might expect that any textbook would have a precise
definition of this phenomenon; some set of characteristics that
distinguish sensible high prices in good times from prices that
are “too high” or in a “bubble.” Alas, “bubbles” seem to
be in the eye of the beholder.  Does that mean it’s all just empty talk? No, and there is
solid academic research that helps us to think about what
“bubbles” might mean, and how both policy makers and investors
might think about them.  Here are the central facts: High valuations are, on
average, followed by many years of poor returns, and vice versa.
High valuations are not, on average, followed by years of good
cash-flow growth, or by ever-higher valuations.  This fact holds across markets:  -- High stock price/dividend, price/earnings, or
market/book ratios are on average followed by years of poor
returns, not years of higher dividend and earnings growth, or
permanently higher prices, and vice versa for low prices.  -- High yield spreads (low prices) on long-term bonds are
on average followed by good returns on long-term bonds, not by
increases in short-term  interest rates , and vice versa.  -- High credit spreads (low prices) on low-grade debt are
followed, on average, by good returns on that debt, not a
proportionally high bankruptcy rate, and vice versa.  -- High interest rates abroad relative to the U.S. are
followed, on average, by good returns to U.S. investors in that
debt, not by foreign exchange-rate depreciations, and vice
versa.  -- High  house prices  relative to rents are followed, on
average, by flat or declining house prices over many years, not
by increases in rents, and vice versa.  No one substantially disputes these facts. The question is:
What does all this tell us about why prices are high or low in
the first place?  The facts don’t support the theory that prices are high
because people always expect a “greater fool” to pay a still
higher price. If that were true, high prices would have no
connection on average to subsequent returns or cash flows, and
would correspond to forever higher prices. We just don’t see
that.  The  data  also deny the simple discounted cash-flow view. If
investors think that dividends and earnings will grow strongly
in the future, they will be willing to buy a stock for a large
multiple of today’s earnings. Although those bets won’t turn out
right every time, on average, high price ratios today will be
followed by good growth in dividends or earnings. They aren’t.  So what’s going on?  ‘Macroeconomic Risk’  The “macroeconomic risk” view holds that the discount
rate for a given cash flow can vary over time. Price booms come
in good macroeconomic times, when the average investor is
“searching for yield” and willing to take on some extra risk.
Such investors bid up the price of unchanged cash flows.  Price busts come in horrible macroeconomic times, such as
those we are enduring. In these periods, the average investor
may rightly say, “I understand returns are better going
forward, and there is the buying opportunity of a lifetime in
 junk bonds . But I’m about to lose my house and my job, the
bankers are about to shut down my business, and I can’t take any
extra risk right now.” Such investors drive prices down until
the same prospective cash flows can deliver returns large enough
to overcome their justified fear.  Over-Optimistic Investors  The “irrational” view is that investors’ required returns
don’t change, but they simply get it wrong. Sometimes they get
over-optimistic and bid up the price as if cash flows are going
to be great. Sometimes they get irrationally depressed. In
either case, they don’t learn from the centuries of experience.  “Macro risk” researchers note the strong connection of
prices to economic events, captured by explicit and rejectable
economic theories of discount-rate variation; they complain
about ex-post storytelling. The “irrational” camp points to
puzzling surveys. For example, investors who bought Amazon.com
at the height of the tech boom reported mathematically
impossible cash-flow forecasts.  But surveys are easy to misinterpret: “Expect” and
“risk” in casual conversation have very different meanings
than “conditional mean and variance” in our models. And
economics was meant to explain behavior, not self-perception.
Rats in mazes do a good job of obeying the laws of economics,
but they’re not so good at responding to surveys.  Financial Frictions  A new view says market swings are all about financial
frictions, not mass risk aversion or psychology. In the
financial crisis many assets seemed to fall in value because of
the run in the shadow banking system, or temporary illiquidity
in markets. The question is whether this view can explain broad
movements across many directly held assets like stocks, or
whether it’s confined to specific smaller markets.  A final view is tantalizing. Every “bubble” has also
featured a “trading frenzy,” from tulips in the 1600s to tech
stocks in 1990 to condo-flipping in Miami in 2006. Perhaps
traders hold high-priced assets despite low average returns
because the assets are useful in helping them to profit from
small bits of information, just as we hold money despite a low
return because it’s useful for buying things. If so, the rest of
us should stay away from “bubble” assets.  Research has, at least, given a lot of structure to the
“bubble” question. We know that variation in price ratios
corresponds to discount-rate variation, not to changes in
expected cash flows or the ability to find a greater fool. The
challenge is to understand that discount-rate variation. A
focused debate, based on clear facts and explicit theories, is
real progress.  (John Cochrane is the AQR Capital Management Distinguished
Service professor of finance at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business and a contributor to  Business Class.  A
survey of much of the research mentioned in this essay is
included in his recent article “ Discount Rates ,” in the
Journal of Finance. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John H. Cochrane at  john.cochrane@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 