-- 
Yuan Tumbles 0.9% in Hong Kong, Trades at Record Discount to Onshore Rate

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-22T09:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/yuan-forwards-drop-to-six-week-low-as-global-economic-outlook-deteriorates.html
China ’s yuan weakened the most on
record in Hong Kong, sliding to the biggest discount to the
onshore  exchange rate  since the currency began trading in the
city last year, as global funds sold emerging-market assets.  The yuan sank 0.9 percent to 6.4430 per dollar as of 5:02
p.m. local time, a 0.9 percent discount to the rate in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.08
percent to close at 6.3877 in the domestic market, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  “It’s a textbook example of funds leaving  Asia  and buying
the dollar on risk-off mode,” said Carlos Cheung, a Hong Kong-
based foreign-exchange dealer at Bank of Communications Ltd.
“Market expectations on yuan appreciation have dwindled.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped 0.9 percent
to 6.4035 per dollar in  Hong Kong , a 0.2 percent discount to the
spot rate in Shanghai. That’s the biggest gap since March 2009,
the midst of a two-year period in which the central bank
prevented yuan gains to help exporters weather a global
recession. One-month and six-month contracts were also trading
at discounts.  “There’s a heavy sell-off by international investors as
the offshore market is more impacted by poor global sentiment,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist in Hong Kong at Credit
Agricole CIB. “The latest China’s data doesn’t worry me that
much as it may be revised later, but the market perception is
bad as there is so much negative headline news.”  ‘Downside Risks’  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest run of contractions since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers released today showed
measures of export orders and output declined. The  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday there are “significant downside risks”
to the U.S. economic outlook and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded credit ratings for Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo
& Co. and Citigroup Inc.  It would be unrealistic to expect  China’s economy  to grow
above 9 percent in the next three years although expansion may
be above 8 percent, Li Daokui, an adviser to the People’s Bank
of China, said in an interview with internet portal netease.com.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily  reference rate 
0.06 percent weaker at 6.3808 per dollar today. The yuan is
allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the daily
reference rate.  Options traders are the most bearish on the yuan since
March 2009. The premium on three-month put options granting the
right to sell the yuan was 0.83 percentage point more than  call
options  today, according to the currency’s three-month risk-
reversal rate tracked by Bloomberg. The contracts favored yuan
purchases by as much as 0.3 percentage point in June.  “The yuan is tied to global growth, so if there is another
crisis situation, the only currency that is a safe haven is the
dollar,” said Steven Chang, head of foreign-exchange trading in
Asia at State Street Bank & Trust Co. in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  