-- 
Yum Sells A&W, Long John Silver’s Chains to Focus on Expansion in China

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-22T20:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/yum-brands-agrees-to-sell-a-w-long-john-silver-s-chains-in-separate-deals.html
Yum! Brands Inc. agreed to sell its
Long John Silver’s restaurants to LJS Partners LLC and the A&W
All-American Food chain to A Great American Brand LLC for
undisclosed prices as it focuses on expanding in  China .  Definitive agreements have been reached to sell the chains,
and the transactions are expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter, the companies said today in a statement.  Yum bought Long John Silver’s and A&W for $320 million in
2002, bringing the total to five brands it could offer under the
same roof in two-in-one or three-in-one combinations. The
company put the chains up for sale in January to focus on
boosting sales in China and from its Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and
KFC restaurants in the U.S.  Long John Silver’s and A&W are “not really international
growth platforms, which is what Yum is pursuing,” Sara Senatore, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York ,
said today in a telephone interview. “They didn’t really have
even the domestic demand or growth that Yum was looking for when
they bought them in the first place.” Senatore rates the shares
“market perform.”  Yum, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , fell $1.58, or 3
percent, to $50.97 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 3.9 percent this year.  The sale won’t have a material impact on earnings or cash
flow, Yum said. Virginia Ferguson, a spokeswoman for Yum,
declined to comment beyond the statement.  Growth Strategy  “As we continue to sharpen our long-term growth focus on
international expansion and improving our U.S. brand positions
in KFC,  Pizza Hut  and Taco Bell, Long John Silver’s and A&W no
longer fit our long-term growth strategy,” Yum Chief Executive
Officer David Novak said in the statement.  Yum reported second-quarter profit in July that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as sales at stores open at least 12 months
rose 18 percent in China. The company has sought to attract the
growing middle class of that country, which accounted for about
one-third of 2010 revenue.  In April, Yum said it would buy Little Sheep Group Ltd.,
which has about 450 hot pot restaurants in mainland China. Yum
has more than 4,000 KFC and Pizza Hut stores in the Asian
nation.  A&W, founded more than 90 years ago and known for selling
root beer floats and hot dogs, has about 300 stores in the U.S.
and 300 abroad. Since the first Long John Silver’s opened in
1969, the chain has grown to about 1,000 restaurants, mostly in
the U.S.  Yum is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Oct.
4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  