-- 
Hyundai Veloster Picks Up U.S. Share Where Sonata Left Off: Cars

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T23:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/hyundai-veloster-picks-up-u-s-share-where-sonata-left-off-cars.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s bet on edgier
styling to distinguish its vehicles from competitors has paid
off with two straight years of record U.S. sales. Building on
those gains is about to get tougher.  Emboldened by the success of cars such as the Elantra and
Sonata that helped lure customers from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Honda Motor Co., Hyundai is now gambling on the three-door
Veloster and six-cylinder Azera. The decision to craft a
strategy around distinctive design still has the legs to further
boost market share well beyond next year, said  John Krafcik ,
chief executive officer of the Seoul-based company’s U.S. unit.  “We have demand in excess of our ability to supply, for
almost all of our models right now,” Krafcik, 50, said in an
interview in  Portland ,  Oregon . “With the Veloster and
especially with the Azera, you’re really going to see this focus
on design pay off.”  Hyundai’s share of U.S. sales has risen 0.5 percentage
point in the past year to 5.2 percent in August, according to
Autodata Corp. Toyota has dropped 2.5 percentage points to 12.7
percent, while Honda is down 1.5 percentage point after the
Japanese earthquake in March disrupted their supply chains and
limited inventory. Both are returning to full production, with
Toyota set to begin sales this month of a revamped Camry sedan,
and Honda increasing output of its new Civic compact.  “The rest of the year may not be as earth-shattering as
the beginning has been” for Hyundai, said Jessica Caldwell, a
senior industry analyst with Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,
California. Honda and Toyota “will be more aggressive in the
final months of the year.”  ‘Got Lucky’  Krafcik said he’s not concerned.  “People will always say ‘you guys got lucky because
competitors had to deal with this other thing,’” he said
referring to the earthquake-related disruptions. “Even without
those issues, we still think our share of demand would be higher
than our actual ability to deliver the volume.”  Hyundai in large part is counting on more converts like
Lorraine Cagliostro, an interior designer from Hunterdon,  New
Jersey , who bought a 2011 Sonata Sport last year after being
disappointed by “faux luxury models” she had owned including a
Mercedes-Benz C-Class sedan and Nissan Motor Co. Infiniti FX.  “I’m really blown away by this car,” she said of the
Sonata. Hyundai has “proven you do not need to spend $40,000,
$50,000, $60,000 to buy a car that drives and handles really
well,” said Cagliostro, whose husband plans to get an Elantra.  Niche Cars  The Veloster, a low-slung, three-door hatchback styled like
a compact coupe, goes on sale this month, aimed at buyers in
their 20s. The 2012 Azera, a large sedan with a six-cylinder
engine, arrives late this year to appeal to drivers of Toyota’s
Avalon and full-size cars from U.S.-based competitors.  Those models and a revamped Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle
will complement demand for the Sonata, Elantra, Tucson and
Accent small cars as well as luxury Equus sedans, ensuring
further gains in 2012, said Krafcik, who declined to provide
volume goals.  About 17 percent of U.S. consumers in the market for a new
vehicle would “definitely” consider buying a Hyundai product,
said  Alexander Edwards , president of Strategic Vision Inc., a
San Diego-based research firm that surveys 300,000 people a year
for its automotive studies. While that’s about the industry
average, and trails Toyota’s and Honda’s 40 percent, it’s up
from about 1 percent a decade ago, he said.  “The important point is they are rising steadily,”
Edwards said. “We do not yet see the extent of Hyundai’s
opportunities to grow in the U.S.”  Sales Growth  Hyundai was among just three carmakers, along with
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.’s
Subaru, to boost U.S. sales in 2009 as industrywide demand
plunged amid the recession and bankruptcies at the predecessor
companies of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. From
2008 to 2010, Hyundai’s U.S. sales grew 34 percent.  With sales up 21 percent this year through August, Hyundai
may sell more than 650,000 cars and light trucks to U.S.
customers in 2011. Kia, which shares engines, vehicle platforms
and a chairman with Hyundai, may sell 450,000 vehicles in the
U.S. That would be the first time combined sales for the
partners, which operate separately in the U.S., top 1 million.  Toyota’s U.S. sales are down 7.8 percent so far this year
and Honda’s have slid 5.5 percent.  The revamp of the Camry, the best-selling car in the U.S.,
may give Toyota a boost and and slow Hyundai’s pace in the
fourth quarter, Caldwell said. Honda’s resumption of full North
American production and increased output of the Civic compact in
the final months of 2011 will also boost competition, she said.  Going Mainstream  “Also, Hyundai has become a more mainstream brand, so
people are expecting more good things from them,” she said.
“It gets a bit harder to keep meeting those expectations.”  Krafcik, who began his automotive career in the early 1980s
as an engineer at a former Toyota-General Motors joint-venture
plant in  California , said Hyundai is both “paranoid” about
competition and secure in its strategy.  “One of the things I think our competitors need to worry
about is that some of the stuff they have coming in the next
year or two was designed three or four years ago,” he said.
“If they really haven’t stretched on design, it’s going to be
really hard to battle back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  