-- 
Zambia’s ‘King Cobra’ Keeps Lead as Last Election Votes Counted

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-09-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/zambia-s-king-cobra-keeps-lead-as-last-election-votes-counted.html
Zambian opposition leader  Michael Sata , known to his supporters as “King Cobra,” held his lead
over incumbent Rupiah Banda as delays in announcing a winner of
a presidential election sparked riots in  Africa ’s top copper
producer.  Sata, 73, led with 44.4 percent in results from 116 of the
150 constituencies following the Sept. 20 vote,  Electoral
Commission of Zambia  Chairwoman Ireen Mambilima told reporters
yesterday in Lusaka, the capital. Banda had 36.14 percent. Sata
also led counting in the previous election in 2008 before losing
by 2 percentage points after votes were tallied in rural areas
where Banda is more popular.  Sata was given his moniker by supporters because of his
aggressive style and has attracted followers among the southern
African nation’s youth with a promise to create jobs and spread
wealth by extracting more benefits from a rapidly expanding
copper industry. Banda, 74, has vowed to continue policies that
have lured investors and led to average economic growth of more
than 6 percent a year since he succeeded Levy Mwanawasa three
years ago after the former president died in office.  “An upset by Sata will likely see a more resource
nationalist policy for the mining sector, with potential tax
hikes and greater government equity shares,” Sebastian Spio- Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina Advisors
LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser, wrote in a report to
clients.  “While Banda’s more genteel personality sits quite well
with the growing upper-middle class, Sata’s more pugnacious
campaign style appeals strongly to the disillusioned bulk of
unemployed youth and lower middle class salaried government
workers,” he said.  Riots in North  Riots erupted in the northern Copperbelt region, a Sata
stronghold, because of delays in releasing results, Francis
Kabonde, the country’s police Inspector-General, told reporters
in Lusaka. Rioters in Kitwe, about 360 kilometers (224 miles)
north of Lusaka, destroyed a market, police spokeswoman Ndalula
Siamana said by phone. Residents in Lusaka stayed at home amid
concerns the violence will spread to the capital.  The election has been “credible” so far and the vote
count transparent, Maria Muniz de Urquiza, the head of the
European Union observer team, told reporters today.  “It isn’t the speed that is important but the transparency
and accuracy,” she said.  Final results were originally to be announced by 6 p.m.
local time yesterday, according to the  electoral commission .
More than 5.1 million Zambians registered to vote in
parliamentary and presidential elections.  Lock the Doors  Shopowners closed doors and workers went home early
yesterday due to concern that fighting may break out in Lusaka.  “I am not working more today,” Dunfern Mbala, a 29-year-
old  taxi driver , said in an interview. “We are peaceful people
and if the violence we hear about comes into the city, I don’t
want to be here. I’m going home and will lock the doors.”  Five of the 10 presidential candidates called on the
electoral commission to declare Sata the winner to help ensure
against violence, Ng’Andu Magande, the leader of the National
Movement for Progress who ran for president, told reporters.  Zambia may become the fifth-largest copper-mining country
in the world by 2013, Sophie Chung, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie
unit Brook Hunt in  London , said in July. Production may more
than double to 1.44 million metric tons by 2015, Brook Hunt
said. Producers such as  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FQM)  and  Vale SA (VALE3) 
are planning more than $6 billion in investment.  Chile is the world’s biggest copper producer, with annual
production of more than 5 million tons.  Currency Weakens  First Quantum shares fell 28 percent over the past four
days in London, their biggest four-day decline since November
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company plans
$1.9 billion in investment in two Zambian mines. The Bloomberg
Europe Metals & Mining Index has dropped 15 percent over the
same period.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , which also operates copper mines in
the country, fell 13 percent to 1,117 pence in London today, the
most since January 2009.  Zambia’s kwacha depreciated the most in eight months
against the dollar, losing 3.1 percent to 4,990 in Lusaka
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  