-- 
Zloty Drop to 27-Month Low Defies Fundamentals, Poland Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-22T16:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/zloty-drop-to-27-month-low-defies-fundamentals-poland-says.html
The zloty tumbled to the lowest
level in 27 months on concern the global recovery is faltering,
prompting Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka to warn the
currency is getting out of synch with the country’s  “healthy
fundamentals.”  The zloty slid 2.2 percent to 4.45256 per euro as of 5:54
p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest since June 2009. The yield on bonds
maturing in April 2016 rose 12 basis points to 5.28 percent, the
highest since Aug. 9. The cost to insure Polish debt for five
year in credit-default swaps market jumped 40 basis points to
310 basis points, the highest since March 2009, according to CMA
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The zloty fell for a fourth day after the  Federal Reserve 
said yesterday the  U.S. economy  faces “significant downside
risks,” sparking a selloff in emerging-market assets. Belka
said zloty’s slump is “now largely determined by external
circumstances, which are exerting a negative influence on the
Polish economy,” according to the central bank’s
Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website.  Belka’s comments indicate “that if depreciation gathers
momentum the central bank will intervene,” said Thu Lan Nguyen,
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It
will be difficult because it’s always hard to intervene against
the weakening currency that’s driven by external factors.”  The Fed said yesterday it will replace $400 billion of
short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries to spur growth as
the recovery falters two years after the biggest slump since the
Great Depression, spurring the steepest drop in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index since 2008 today. The biggest risk to the
euro area is a run on southern European banks, said  Kenneth Rogoff , a former chief economist at the  International Monetary
Fund , Handelsblatt reported.  Containing Spread  The lack of a mechanism to contain the spread of  Europe ’s
debt crisis is “very negative” for central eastern European
markets, said  Manik Narain , an emerging-market strategist at UBS
AG in London. “We may be moving closer to a stage when
authorities start being worried about the zloty depreciation.”  Poland  sends 55 percent of its exports to the euro area and
most of the country’s banking assets are controlled by foreign
lenders, according to the statistics office and the country’s
financial regulator. The European Union’s largest eastern
economy has “non-negligible external financing needs,” which
makes the zloty “exposed to contagion risks from the euro
area,” Barclays Capital strategists including Koon Chow in
 London  wrote in a quarterly report yesterday.  Public Debt  Poland sends 55 percent of its exports to the euro area and
most of the country’s banking assets are controlled by foreign
lenders, according to the statistics office and the country’s
financial regulator. The European Union’s largest eastern
economy has “non-negligible external financing needs,” which
makes the zloty “exposed to contagion risks from the euro
area,” Barclays Capital strategists including Koon Chow in
London wrote in a quarterly report yesterday.  Poland’s state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold
Europe’s common currency before the end of 2010 to shore up the
zloty and keep foreign borrowing from pushing total debt in
local currency terms to levels that would prompt austerity
measures.  The ministry uses the so-called fixing exchange rate from
the last working day of the year to determine the public debt
level. If debt exceeds 55 percent of gross domestic product,
spending cuts and tax increases would be required under public
finance law.  Intensifying Sales  BGK will “intensify” its sales of euros on the  currency
market  in the fourth quarter, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  was quoted as saying by PAP newswire on Sept.7.  Poland’s ratio of public debt to gross domestic product is
unlikely to exceed 55 percent this year as long as the zloty
stays stronger than 4.9 per euro, Bank Zachodni WBK SA said in a
report today. Citigroup Inc. estimates the level at 4.7 per
euro.  “The bottom line is that although the  finance ministry  has
some, very limited, room this year it will probably need to
accelerate foreign-currency intervention efforts in the fourth
quarter,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist for Poland wrote in an
e-mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  