-- M&T Bank Leads $7.25 Billion of Asset-Backed Bond Offerings
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-09-09T19:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/m-t-bank-leads-7-25-billion-of-asset-backed-bond-offerings.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  is marketing its
first bonds linked to auto loans as planned sales of asset-backed securities this week surge to $7.25 billion after $11.8
billion in all of August.  The lender is offering $1.4 billion in bonds tied to
vehicle loans to the most creditworthy buyers, according to
people with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t public. The deal from the
Buffalo, New York-based bank is being managed by Credit Suisse
Group AG, Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Sales of bonds linked to U.S. household debt are
accelerating after plummeting last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Auto companies, which account for the
largest share of the asset-backed market, are offering $5.75
billion of the securities, the people said.  “The apparent lull in the new-issue market seems to be
giving way to another wave of new-issue volume,” Bank of
America Corp. analysts led by Chris Flanagan in New York said in
a Sept. 6 report.  While sales of the debt are poised to jump this month, the
Bank of America analysts reduced their issuance forecast by $20
billion to $180 billion as banks sell less of the debt than
anticipated, they said in the report.  Crowded Market  Companies offering deals this week include the finance
units of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Hyundai Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  Blackstone Group LP’s Exeter Finance Corp. is selling $500
million of bonds backed by car loans to subprime borrowers as
sales of such debt rise.  About 13 subprime auto issuers have tapped the asset-backed
market this year as new entrants crowd the segment, according to
Citigroup Inc. Originations of car loans to borrowers with poor
or limited credit have doubled since the fourth quarter of 2009
to reach $18.4 billion during the same period in 2012, Citigroup
analysts led by Mary Kane in New York said in a Sept. 6 report.
The pace of growth is likely unsustainable, they said.  “Many subprime lenders’ business models derailed amid
similarly competitive” conditions when the market peaked in
2001, the analysts said.  Top-ranked securities backed by auto loans to borrowers
spanning the spectrum from the weakest to the most creditworthy
are yielding 48 basis points more than Treasuries, down from a
13-month high of 56 basis points on July 3, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  