-- AFL-CIO Courts Sierra Club Despite Keystone Disagreement
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-09T18:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/afl-cio-courts-sierra-club-despite-keystone-disagreement.html
The U.S.  labor movement , faced with
declining enrollment, political attacks and growing economic
insecurity among members, is turning to non-union groups for
help.  The AFL-CIO, the federation that represents 57 unions with
12 million members, holds its national convention this week in
 Los Angeles  with labor in a time of “crisis,” according to the
group’s president,  Richard Trumka . Unions represented 11.3
percent of workers in 2012, down from 20.1 percent in 1983.  A top priority is to expand relationships with non-union
groups such as the Sierra Club and the National Organization for
Women, which often share the AFL-CIO’s goals. Convention
delegates today approved a resolution that calls for exploring
“new forms of membership and representation.”  “Were in a crisis right now and none of us are big enough
to change that,” Trumka said yesterday at a press briefing
before the first convention session. “None of us are big enough
to change the economy and make it work for everybody. It takes
all progressive voices working together.”  This summer,  Sierra Club  members, in coordination with
labor groups, pressured Congress to bring Obama’s nominees for
the  National Labor Relations Board  and the Environmental
Protection Agency to a vote, said Dean Hubbard, labor program
director for the environmental group.  Keystone Pipeline  Efforts to blunt the fallout from the  Supreme Court ’s 2010
decision known as  Citizens United , which removed restrictions on
corporate contributions to political campaigns, also would be
boosted by a broader coalition, Trumka said.  “Money does not equal free speech,” Trumka said. “We’re
going to work as best we can to try to rectify that. It may take
a constitutional amendment.”  Coalition building between groups as diverse as unions and
environmental advocates presents challenges. The labor movement
is at odds with its non-union allies on  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP) 
proposed Keystone XL pipeline from  Canada , a project the United
Steelworkers Union, an AFL-CIO member, backs while the San
Francisco-based Sierra Club is an opponent.  “We obviously are very strongly opposed to the pipeline
but that doesn’t mean that we don’t work together where it makes
sense and where we agree,” Hubbard said in an interview. “It’s
very complex at times to try and figure out the best way to work
together.”  Energy Efficiency  The steelworkers union and the Sierra Club are among 14
union and environmental groups in the Blue Green Alliance, a
group that claims to have 15 million members and supporters, and
advocates for  job creation  in renewable energy and energy
efficiency.  “Trumka will know, more so than probably anyone else
because of his high position, that the only way labor can prove
its relevancy is through coalitions,”  Gary Chaison , a labor-law
professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said
in an interview. “He’s pushing it to a new level.”  The convention began yesterday and Trumka will give the
first keynote address today. Labor Department Secretary Tom Perez, who was sworn into office last week, is scheduled
tomorrow.  President  Barack Obama  was scheduled to speak in person at
the forum, will instead speak to delegates by video today.  Senator Warren  Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke yesterday, and
credited organized labor for decades of leadership on workplace
reforms and for playing a role in the creation of  Social
Security  and Medicare. Most Americans support labor’s agenda on
tougher oversight of financial institution, a higher  minimum
wage  and preserving benefits, she said.  “Here’s my message,” Warren, a Democrat, said. “Our
agenda is America’s agenda. The American people know that the
system is rigged against them and they want us to level the
playing field.”  Other than the keynote addresses, the 2013 convention will
feature fewer speeches and, for the first time, 40 sessions
where where union and non-union delegates will meet off the
convention floor to discuss common challenges, Trumka said.  “It’s not that Trumka is going to call up the Sierra Club
and say. ‘What should we do,’”  Dean Baker , co-director of the
Center for Economic and Policy Research, a Washington-based
group funded by labor unions and private foundations, said in an
interview. “It’s seeking them out to get more input into
setting an agenda for labor.”  Core Mission  Resistance goes beyond specific issues such as the Keystone
pipeline. Lou Paulson, president of California Professional
Firefighters, said outreach to non-union groups must not come at
the expense of labor’s core mission of organizing workers and
bargaining for better salaries and working conditions.  “We support this resolution but with caution,” Paulson
said today on the convention floor. “We are concerned that as
we move forward with this experiment that we do not undermine
the work we have currently done or that we have been doing since
1918 to organize folks.”  Over 100,000 members of the International Association of
Firefighters are working with no collective bargaining
agreement, according to Paulson.  “Trumka is kind of the figurehead for the unions, the
visionary if you like, but each union has got its own
bureaucracy and makes its own decisions,” Baker said in an
interview. “If you put more into outreach with different
organizations and activities that aren’t narrowly focused on
getting the better contract next time, then you won’t do as
well, at least in the short term.”  Political Realities  By Trumka’s own account, labor has failed to keep pace with
changing economic and political realities. Of particular concern
is labor’s failure to remain relevant to young people, he said.  “A lot of young Americans right now who leave college
educated with masters degrees are working in dead end jobs in
waitressing and bartending,” Gary Hubbard, spokesman for the
steelworkers union, said in an interview. “The labor movement
has to do more than just collective bargaining. We’ve got to
create a lot of good jobs.”  In 2012, 14.4 million wage and salary workers were union
members, down from 17.7 million in 1983, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. The union membership rate was highest among
workers ages 55 to 64 at 14.9 percent and lowest among those
ages 16 to 24 at 4.2 percent.  “The future of the woman’s movement must lie in collective
action,”  Terry O’Neill , president of the National Organization
for Women, said yesterday at a press briefing at the convention.
“In linking arms with our allies. In working collaboratively
with those organizations with whom we share a basic outlook for
justice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  