-- Magnit’s Moscow Discount Is Buy Signal: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-09-09T21:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/magnit-s-moscow-discount-is-buy-signal-russia-overnight.html
The largest discount in two months
for OAO Magnit’s Moscow-traded shares relative to the  London 
stock is a buying opportunity, according to BCS Financial Group.  Global depositary receipts of Russia’s biggest food
retailer rose 0.8 percent yesterday, sending the premium versus
the Moscow-traded shares to 26 percent. The gap reached 27
percent on Sept. 6, the highest since July 5. The Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index of most-traded Russian stocks added 1.9
percent.  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the natural gas export monopoly, jumped to
a five-month high in  New York . RTS Index futures contracts
expiring this month gained 0.7 percent in U.S. hours.  Magnit’s London premium will narrow to 15 percent in the
fourth quarter and to 5 percent in the first half of next year,
according to BCS.  Russia  adopted a T+2 settlement this month and
the nation’s equities are set to become available through
Euroclear Bank SA next year to shift more trading from offshore
platforms to the Moscow Exchange. The 30-day average value of
trades in 10 of the biggest Russian companies tracked by
Bloomberg in London is about 50 percent greater than in Moscow.  “We advise investors to add more to their Magnit exposure
through the local shares,” Vladimir Savov, an analyst at
Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow, wrote in an e-mail
yesterday. The premium “should narrow significantly as we move
closer to the first half of 2014,” he wrote.  The Moscow Exchange, which raised 15 billion rubles ($452
million) in a Feb. 15 initial public offering, is modernizing in
a bid to lure investors to Russian equities, which are the
 cheapest  among 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. The
Micex Index trades at 3.8 times estimated earnings, compared
with ratios of 13.7 for  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index and 8.9 for
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  DR Limits  Russia limits DRs to 25 percent of a company’s shares and
50 percent of listed stock, creating shortages of offshore-listed securities. Those restrictions will probably be lifted
next year and Magnit’s spread will disappear,  Luis Saenz , head
of equity sales and trading at BCS in London, wrote in a note
yesterday. He added that investors should sell Magnit’s London
shares and buy the local stock.  Limits on conversion are needed until the local market’s
competitive disadvantage is eliminated, Sergei Shvetsov, head of
Russia’s chief markets regulator, said last month. Canceling the
limits for depositary receipts when there are “shortcomings”
for local shares would be wrong, he said.  ‘No Indications’  “There are no indications that the DR limits will be
lifted any time soon,” Slava Smolyaninov, a strategist at
UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday. “This is
not a done deal, quite the opposite. From the fundamental
standpoint, domestic shares look more properly priced.”  While Magnit has rallied 60 percent in Moscow this year for
the biggest gain in Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , its valuation is 21
percent lower than the London-listed stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, based on estimated earnings. Magnit rose
0.8 percent to 7,730 rubles, or $233.17, in Moscow yesterday.
The GDR, which is equal to one-fifth of the local stock, climbed
to $58.80.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge advanced to 94.99, the
highest level since May 21, while futures on Russia’s RTS Index
increased to 138,640. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  climbed 2.7
percent to an almost six-month high of $27.94. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in futures,
rose 1.8 percent to 22.58.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom rallied 5.1 percent
to $8.95, to trade about 0.5 percent above its Moscow-listed
shares. A shift in the payout policy of state companies implies
a dividend yield of about 9 percent for Russia’s biggest
company, VTB Capital said in a note yesterday.  ADRs of  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, climbed 6 percent to $3.53. The shares traded at a
10 percent premium over its Moscow stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  