-- Thailand to Scrap Luxury-Goods Tax to Lure China Travelers
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-09-09T10:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/thailand-to-scrap-luxury-goods-tax-to-lure-travelers-from-china.html
Thailand’s government said it will
scrap  import duties  on luxury watches, clothes and cosmetics to
help the country compete with Hong Kong and  Singapore  for
wealthy travelers from markets including  China .  The duty on some  luxury goods  will be cut to zero from 30
percent by the end of the year,  Permanent Secretary  for Finance
Areepong Bhoocha-Oom told reporters in Chonburi province.
Thailand’s SET Index jumped 3.6 percent, as  Minor (MINT)  International
Pcl led gains among tourism-related stocks on optimism the tax
reduction will boost  travel demand .  The government expects  tourist arrivals  to surge 18 percent
to 26.4 million this year, helping to counter a slump in exports
and domestic consumption that may cause the economy to grow as
little as 3.8 percent. Thailand’s tourism and services
industries account for 50 percent of gross domestic product.  “We will do it fast because we want it to help boost the
economy this year,” Somchai Sujjapongse, head of the  finance
ministry ’s Fiscal Policy Office, said today by phone. “Apart
from buying luxury products, they will also buy our local
products. We also hope wealthy Thai people will buy luxury items
in Thailand instead of flying to Europe to make purchases.”  Shares of hotel operator Minor rose 10 percent, their
biggest gain since May 4.  Central Plaza Hotel (CENTEL)  Pcl jumped 6.5
percent and  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  advanced 7.7 percent,
the most since October 2011.  ‘Strong Earnings’  “The tax cut on luxury goods would add a new catalyst for
Thailand’s tourism sector,” Itphong Saengtubtim, the head of
research at KGI Securities (Thailand) Pcl in Bangkok, said by
phone today. “Tourism-related companies still have strong
earnings outlook as growth in foreign visitors has been
unaffected by global economic slowdown.”  Chinese tourists, who spent $105 billion overseas in 2012,
are forecast to make 94 million trips this year, almost double
the level in 2009, according to the China Tourism Academy.  Thailand’s tourist arrivals increased 16 percent to 22.4
million last year, according to  government data . The number of
visitors from China surged by 62 percent to 2.8 million.  Singapore attracted 14.4 million visitors last year,
according to preliminary government figures. Arrivals from China
increased 23 percent to 1.5 million in the first nine months of
last year, according to the most recent  data . The Singapore
government expects arrivals to increase to as many as 15.5
million this year.  Lower Costs  “We can easily compete with  Hong Kong  and Singapore,” Tos Chirathivat, chief executive officer of Central Retail Corp.,
said today in an interview. “Our infrastructure, our malls are
the same or better. We have more. The service is good. The
rental cost is lower and labor cost is lower.”  Thailand will initially cut import duties on some luxury
goods to between zero and 5 percent, from 30 percent, said
Somchai from the finance ministry. The government will discuss
the plan with local retailers to ensure they aren’t adversely
affected by the measure, he said.  “We may lose some revenue from the tax cut, but I don’t
think it will be a lot,” Somchai said. “We will in turn get
more from VAT and other taxes.” Thailand levies a value-added
tax of 7 percent on goods and services, the same level as
Singapore’s goods and services tax.  Deputy Finance Minister Benja Louichareon said today that
the ministry is concerned the  tax cut  will hurt local producers,
so must be carefully considered.  “We need to see figures from the revenue department on how
much is the VAT refund from tourists buying products in
Thailand,” she told reporters. “If it’s a lot already, there
is no need to do additional measures.”  Somchai said visitors from China were a key target of the
plan to lower import duties.  “Thailand sits right in the middle,” said Tos of Central
Retail. “If we look at  India , China, Hong Hong, Singapore,
whatever, within three-to-six hours flight, people can come
easily for the weekend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  