-- Man. United Targets Benteke to Strengthen Attack: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-09T07:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/man-united-targets-benteke-to-strengthen-attack-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moyes Wants Benteke  Manchester United is considering a move for Aston Villa
striker Christian Benteke as manager David Moyes seeks to add
more height and strength in attack, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Moyes watched Benteke in  Belgium ’s victory against  Scotland 
last week and the 22-year-old is eligible to play in European
competition if United sign him in January, the newspaper added.  City Targets Defender  Manchester City will make a 30 million-pound ($47 million)
bid for Porto central defender Eliaquim Mangala when the
transfer window reopens in January, the  Daily Star reported .  Chelsea and Manchester United also want the 22-year-old
Frenchman, who has said that City made a late approach for him
just before last week’s trade deadline, the newspaper added.  Walker’s Apology  Tottenham Hotspur and England full-back Kyle Walker
apologized after a newspaper published a photograph that
appeared to show him breathing nitrous oxide, a legal but
potentially lethal pain-killing substance, through a balloon,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “Now I know the health risks, it was poor judgement on my
part,” Walker posted on his  Twitter feed . “I won’t be doing
this again and hope that no one else is influenced into putting
their health at risk by my actions.”  Persuasive Call  Mesut Ozil said Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger persuaded him
to join the Gunners from Real  Madrid  during a telephone
conversation even though the German midfielder initially wanted
to stay in Spain, the  Guardian reported .  “Somehow this telephone call just flicked a switch in
me,” the Guardian cited Ozil as telling Die Welt. “I thought
‘What he is telling me is what I have missed at Real:
transparency, trust, respect.’”  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  