-- Hannover Re Sees Stable Demand in January Renewals
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-09-09T07:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/hannover-re-sees-stable-demand-in-january-renewals.html
Hannover Re, the world’s third-largest reinsurer, said it expects reinsurance rates at price
negotiations for January renewals to remain little changed.  Pricing will be “rather stable,” Chief Executive Officer
 Ulrich Wallin  said at a briefing in Monte Carlo today. “We have
pockets like German catastrophe business that will provide rate
increases next year, others won’t. It’s very diverse.”  Munich Re,  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and Hannover Re are among
reinsurers meeting with brokers and their clients, primary
insurers, in  Monte Carlo  to negotiate terms and conditions of
next year’s property and casualty policies. The industry is
under pressure to shore up earnings hurt by low interest rates
as near-record capital available for coverage weighs on prices.  Reinsurers typically renew about two thirds of their annual
property and casualty contracts in January. Wallin said that
there’s not much leeway to lower prices, with low interest rates
weighing on investment income.  Hannover Re said that insured losses from disasters
affecting  Germany  this year including floods may add as much as
5 billion euros ($6.6 billion). It reiterated that it expects
net income of about 800 million euros for this year.  The Hanover, Germany-based company will give details on
claims related to hailstorms that hit Germany in June, July and
August when it reports third-quarter results, the CEO said.  Shrinking U.S. property catastrophe margins have had a
limited effect on the company’s business following a
“disproportionately low” market share, the company said in a
statement today. Wallin said he doesn’t expect a general
weakening of contract terms and conditions next year.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, said
earlier today it expects the price of natural-catastrophe
reinsurance to stabilize in 2014 after a drop this year. Munich
Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday forecast stable
rates in January. The July hailstorms are expected to cost 180
million euros, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  