-- Apollo Buys Evo Banco in Spain’s First Foreign Deal Since Rescue
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-09-09T10:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/apollo-buys-evo-banco-in-spain-s-first-foreign-deal-since-rescue.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  agreed
to buy Evo Banco, a unit of nationalized Spanish lender NCG
Banco SA, in the first foreign private-equity purchase since
Spain’s bank bailout last year.  Apollo, a New York-based buyout firm run by  Leon Black ,
will pay 60 million euros ($79 million), or 55 percent of net
book value, for Evo Banco, NCG said in an e-mailed statement
today. The unit has 702 million euros of loans and 1.6 billion
euros of deposits.  It marks the first foreign private-equity acquisition of a
Spanish bank since the nation agreed to a 100 billion-euro
European bailout for its financial system and created a bad bank
to remove soured real estate assets from lenders’ books. More
deals may follow as La Caixa financial group is close to selling
a 51 percent in its real estate servicing company to U.S.
private-equity firm TPG Capital, a person with knowledge of the
matter said on Sept. 5.  Evo is “very well positioned to grow and occupy a
prominent place in the Spanish market,” Andres Rubio, head of
Apollo European Principal Finance Fund II in  Spain , said in the
statement. “We expect to maintain and expand our current
operations to offer the best service to EVO Banco clients.”  The sale of EVO Banco was a condition for the 9 billion
euros of state aid granted to NCG, based in A Coruna, Spain, as
part of the bailout program. EVO Banco, which pioneered a 12-hour working day in a country where banks shut in the early
afternoon, has 249,218 clients and a bad-loans ratio of 0.04
percent, compared with the industry average of 11.6 percent.  It has 80 branches and a workforce of 590, both of which
will be maintained after the purchase, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  