-- Apple Using Rupee Drop to Win Smartphone Buyers: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-10T12:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/apple-using-rupee-drop-to-win-smartphone-buyers-corporate-india.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is using the Indian
rupee’s unprecedented plunge to lure customers in the world’s
fastest growing smartphone market.  The Cupertino, California-based company has refrained from
following  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in raising prices. Apple is
selling the iPhone and iPad to  distributors  such as  Redington
India Ltd. (REDI)  at the same price as in 2012 even after the
currency’s decline this year, Rajesh Khetarpal, head of
Redington’s strategic business unit, said in an interview. Apple
declined to comment on pricing in India in an e-mail.  Apple’s approach to cap prices is key to helping it boost
sales in India, which IDC predicts will replace the U.S. as the
second-biggest smartphone market by 2017. The largest technology
company, facing rising competition from Samsung, will unveil a
less-expensive model at its headquarters today to tap buyers in
emerging economies, a person familiar with the plan has said.  “Even though Apple’s margins in  India  may be adversely
affected, volumes are low and this strategy could pay off if
stable prices lure new buyers,” said Kiranjeet Kaur, a
Singapore-based analyst with researcher IDC. “This could be a
wise move in India, especially if competitors increase prices.”  The rupee advanced 2.2 percent to 63.84 a dollar in Mumbai
today, narrowing its loss this year to about 14 percent,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Average Prices  IDC estimates the average selling price for smartphones
will fall below $200 by the end of 2013 in the world’s second-most populous nation. The 16-gigabyte iPhone 5 sells for 45,500
rupees ($712), according to iStore India, an Apple reseller.
Samsung’s Galaxy S4 costs 41,500 rupees, according to the South
Korean company’s local website.  Samsung raised prices in India by about 5 percent last
month, a company official said, asking not to be identified
because the person isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  Apple trails Samsung, Micromax Informatics Ltd., Karbonn
Mobiles India Pvt, Nokia Oyj and Sony Corp. in India’s
smartphone market, where IDC estimates shipments almost tripled
to 9.3 million units in the quarter ended June. Samsung had a 26
percent share in the period, and Micromax was No. 2 with 22
percent, according to IDC.  Apple ranked second globally with a 13.1 percent market
share in the quarter, according to IDC, trailing Samsung’s 30.4
percent.  Stiffer Rivalry  The competition among smartphone makers has intensified in
India, where  Boston Consulting Group  estimates total  consumer
spending  will almost quadruple to $3.6 trillion by the end of
the decade.  “Others have increased prices, but we’re seeing robust
growth of all Apple products,” Redington’s Khetarpal said by
telephone from Chennai on Sept. 4. “So why mess with a good
thing?”  Redington first became a distributor of Apple computers and
iPods in 2007. It started selling the iPad in 2011 and last year
began offering iPhones through its network. In June, the
Chennai-based company was appointed by the local unit of Lenovo
Group Ltd. to offer its smartphones across India.  Redington was unchanged at 58 rupees at the close in Mumbai
trading. The shares have declined 33 percent this year, compared
with a 2.9 percent increase in the S&P BSE Sensex.  The iPhone is also offered by phone service providers such
as Reliance Communications Ltd. to users of its data services.  ‘Losing Battle’  Apple has offered interest-free payment plans, trade-in
offers and discounted service agreements in India this year.  The strategy of holding prices may not lift Apple’s market
share in the country, said Abhay Gupta, chief executive officer
of New Delhi-based retail consultancy  Luxury Connect LLP .  Consumers looking to buy high-end smartphones choose a
device based on their preference between Apple’s iOs, Google
Inc.’s Android and Microsoft Corp.’s Windows operating systems,
and cost is a secondary consideration, according to Gupta.  “Once customers in this category make up their minds, a
few thousand rupees here and there is not a differentiating
factor.” Gupta said by phone. “Apple has been fighting a
losing battle.”  The rupee’s decline this year is the biggest after  South
Africa ’s rand among emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The local currency’s drop has driven up the cost of
imports, stoked inflation, discouraged consumer spending, and
spurred the the government and the central bank to act.  Rate Increase  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised two  interest rates  in July
to support the currency. The government has also increased
 import taxes  on gold three times this year to moderate
consumption and curb a record current-account deficit.  Electronic gadgets could face the threat of higher  import
duties , especially if  oil prices  keep rising, according to DBS
Bank Ltd. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram on Aug. 12
 said  the government will rein in some “non-essential” imports.  “Curbing imports of such electronic goods wouldn’t affect
businesses and vulnerable sections of society,” Radhika Rao, an
economist at DBS Bank in  Singapore , said in a Sept. 6 telephone
interview. “So these are the lowest hanging fruit.”  Redington says the slower pace of economic growth in India
isn’t denting demand for the products it distributes.  “In spite of the downturn, we’re seeing a lot of luxury
goods markets growing,” said Khetarpal. “I’m happy so long as
my billing is in rupees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  