-- Targeting Ethanol Mandates Seen Hurting Cellulosic Growth
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-09-09T16:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/targeting-ethanol-mandates-seen-hurting-cellulosic-growth.html
Efforts to roll back rules that
nurtured the corn-based ethanol industry threaten to stunt other
promising biofuels, according to a developer working on one of
the nation’s first commercial plants that won’t use the grain.  Lower quotas for renewable fuel use are being considered as
part of a plan to raise the federal borrowing limit by U.S.
House of Representatives Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican. The move would threaten investments in a few next-generation plants, said Stephan Tanda, a managing board member
at  Royal DSM NV (DSM) , a Heerlen, Netherlands-based manufacturer.  “The sprout’s coming out of the ground,” Tanda, whose
company has joined Poet LLC, the world’s biggest ethanol maker,
to build a next-generation plant in  Iowa , said in a Sept. 5
interview. “You can’t step on it with your boots,” he said. In
2014, the $250 million factory in Emmetsburg will start making
ethanol from such waste as corn cobs, leaves and husks.  Under the Renewable Fuels Standard passed by Congress in
2007, refiners including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must mix a certain
amount of renewable fuels into their gasoline each year.
Advocates say this spurs domestic production and cuts
greenhouse-gas emissions by reducing gasoline and diesel use.
Critics say the rules contribute little to  energy security ,
especially when increased  U.S. oil and gas output  from hydraulic
fracturing is easing dependence on energy sources abroad.  Cellulosic Source  The ethanol mandates, combined with a tax credit for
blenders and a tariff on fuel imports, helped push production of
corn-based ethanol to a peak of  13.9 billion  gallons in 2011
from 3.9 billion in 2005. Under the 2007 measure, production of
the biofuel is to reach 15 billion gallons by 2015. The corn-based mandate then levels off while advanced-biofuel output,
mainly cellulosic, must rise to 21 billion gallons by 2022.  Producers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  have struggled to meet targets for greater use of
the biofuel as declining demand for gasoline puts refiners
closer to the “blend wall,” the point at which the ethanol
content in gas exceeds 10 percent. Refiners say more than that
can harm engines.  Meanwhile, cellulosic ethanol made from crop waste, grasses
and wood chips and envisioned under the law as supplying 20
billion gallons of the biofuel by 2022, has fallen far short of
government targets because of technological limitations.  EPA Action  The Environmental Protection Agency, which sets annual
quotas for next-generation biofuel use, slashed the mandate to 6
million gallons of cellulosic ethanol for this year from a
proposed 14 million gallons, in response to pleas from refiners
last month. It also signaled it will cut the 18.15 billion-gallon mandate for corn- and cellulosic-based fuels next year, a
requirement that had pushed up prices of  ethanol credits  that
refiners can buy to comply when they can’t meet use quotas.  The changes show the government has the ability to adapt to
realities without compromising the longer-term goals of the
standard, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack told a farmer group
in  Washington  today. “The EPA has the capacity to create
flexibility, and they’re using that capacity,” he said.  ‘Full Repeal’  Still, stagnant growth has given longtime opponents a
chance to pounce. “Ethanol requirements will continue to
increase while gasoline demand continues to decline,” Bob Greco, a director for the  American Petroleum Institute , said
last month in a  statement . “That’s why we need a full repeal by
Congress.”  Groups such as the institute, which represents companies
including  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MRO) , Phillips 66 Co.,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil , have pushed to repeal the mandates,
describing them as fundamentally flawed and unworkable.  Opponents are backing a bill by Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, that would cap the ethanol-content requirement at 10 percent of gasoline and set the
mandate for cellulosic fuels at levels that reflect actual
production. Senator  Barbara Boxer , the California Democrat who
leads the chamber’s Environment and Public Works Committee, also
plans a hearing on the Renewable Fuels Standard this year.  ‘Finally Here’  Adjusting the mandates would halt efforts to develop the
cellulosic-ethanol industry and limit the use of biofuel derived
from corn, Poet Chief Executive Officer Jeff Lautt said.  “We’re finally here, we’re at the doorstep of
commercialization,” Lautt said. “Our opponents, who have had
the luxury of having control of the fuel supply in the U.S.
since the inception of automobiles, would love to see the RFS
either tweaked or repealed or anything in between.”  Congress is unlikely to agree on changing the program, said
Jerrod Kitt, an analyst at Chicago-based Linn Group Inc.  “They can barely agree on the color of the sky, let alone
something as complicated as the Renewable Fuels Standard,” Kitt
said.  Even without a change, the efforts to revamp the rules are
likely to give investors pause, DSM’s Tanda said. Requirements
are needed for at least three to five years while the first
cellulosic-ethanol plants come online and prove their viability,
he said. As biofuel based on corn grain needed tariff and tax
incentives in its early years to become viable, newer sources
need the use mandates to spur research and development, he said.  “We don’t count on this forever,” he said. Without the
requirements, “potential clients for us will look at this
nervously,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  