-- Marubeni-Itochu Buys Biggest U.S. Pipes Trader for $600 Million
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-09T08:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/marubeni-itochu-buys-biggest-u-s-pipes-trader-for-600-million.html
Marubeni-Itochu Steel Inc. agreed to
buy Sooner Inc., the largest U.S. distributor of pipes for the
oil and gas industry, for $600 million to tap the benefits of
increased energy output in the U.S.  The Tokyo-based venture between Japan’s third-largest
trading house  Itochu Corp. (8001)  and its fifth-largest  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
will gain access to Sooner’s five main U.S. supply bases and its
clients, from multinational oil majors to independent producers,
Marubeni-Itochu said in a statement today.  The U.S. accounts for 40 percent, or 5.5 million metric
tons, of the global market for Oil Country Tubular Goods, or
pipes used in the  energy industry , and Sooner has the biggest
client base in the country, Marubeni-Itochu said.  The pipe trader, owned by  Oil States International Inc. (OIS) ,
had sales of $1.8 billion last year. Aided by techniques
including hydraulic fracturing, U.S. oil output in the seven
days to July 5 jumped to 7.4 million barrels a day, its highest
since January 1992, the Energy Information Administration, a
unit of the U.S. Energy Department, said July 11.  A slowdown in Chinese demand and sluggish economic growth
in emerging markets this year has refocused Japanese trade
houses’ investments from the extraction of resources to their
processing and transportation.  Just three of the top 20 investments announced by  Japan ’s
traders this year were in commodity producing assets, compared
to 10 in the same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The purchase of Sooner would be the fifth-largest outlay
by a Japanese trading company this year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  