-- Stocks Rise on China Data, Syria Discussions; Oil Falls
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-09-10T20:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/asian-futures-climb-before-china-output-data-as-oil-slips.html
Global stocks rose for a seventh
day, the longest gain in two years, oil fell and the yen slid as
data showed  China’s economy  is improving and Russia bid to get
Syria to surrender its chemical weapons to avoid U.S. air
strikes. Yields on Treasuries, bunds and gilts increased.  The MSCI All-Country World Index gained 1 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased 0.7
percent to reach an almost one-month high. Japan’s currency
declined against all 16 major counterparts. Treasury 10-year
note yields rose six basis points to 2.97 percent as Verizon
Communications Inc. marketed what may be a record debt sale.
Yields on similar maturity German bunds and U.K. gilts topped 2
percent and 3 percent, respectively. Oil slid almost 2 percent.  China’s  industrial production  rose 10.4 percent in August
from a year earlier and retail sales gained 13.4 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. U.S.
President  Barack Obama , who will address the nation tonight,
said in an interview with NBC News he isn’t confident he’ll get
congressional approval for a military strike against Syria and
that the Russian proposal to convince Syria to give up its
chemical weapons is a “potentially positive development.”  “The recent data out of China has been signaling a bit of
a recovery,” Mark Harris, who helps oversee about $1.2 billion
as  fund manager  at City Financial in London, said in an
interview. “You’re beginning to see traction globally. This is
an opportunity to buy cyclical stocks even though I do expect
some sort of a contained pull-back this year and volatility may
pick up.”  Vote Delay  Obama asked Democratic senators to delay a vote on
authorizing military strikes in Syria to allow time for talks on
eliminating that country’s chemical weapons, lawmakers said
today. The president also asked senators to “keep the threat of
credible military action available,” Democratic Senator Tom
Carper of Delaware said after the meeting.  Given the developments of the past 24 hours, second-ranking
Senate Democrat  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said it was looking
probable that the Senate’s vote on a Syria proposal would slip
to next week. Yesterday, Russia announced a bid to get Syria to
surrender its chemical weapons.  Dow Changes  Gauges of industrial, financial, telephone and consumer-discretionary companies rose at least 1 percent to lead gains
among all 10 of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500 .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Visa Inc. and Nike Inc. will be
added to the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , replacing Bank of
America Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Alcoa Inc. in the first
reshuffling since September 2012. The changes will boost the
number of financial-related companies in the 30-member gauge to
five as the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and the largest
payment network join JPMorgan Chase & Co., Travelers Cos. and
American Express Co. Bank of America is being kicked out even
after rallying 109 percent in 2012, the Dow’s largest gain.  Goldman Sachs climbed 3.5 percent, while Nike jumped 2.2
percent and Visa increased 3.4 percent. Hewlett-Packard lost 0.4
percent and Alcoa dropped 0.3 percent. Bank of America added 0.9
percent.  Apple Inc. slipped 2.3 percent. The company announced two
new iPhones including one with lower prices and more color
options, in a strategy shift by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
to reach a broader range of customers around the world. A new
iPhone known as the iPhone 5C will start at $99 with a two-year
contract and will come in five colors, Apple said today. The
high-end model called the iPhone 5S will come in three colors
including gold.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.3 percent to the
highest level since May as all 19  industry groups  climbed. The
volume of shares changing hands was 33 percent greater than the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Societe Generale SA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
increased more than 3 percent. Neste Oil Oyj surged 13 percent
to a five-year high as the Finnish refiner raised its profit
forecasts.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , which manufactures
telecommunications equipment, jumped 7 percent to a two-year
high and PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,
rose 1.8 percent. Glencore Xstrata Plc rallied 2.3 percent after
boosting its estimate for financial gains from the merger with
Xstrata Plc.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 1.7 percent, rising
for a fifth day and reaching a three-month high. The Shanghai
Composite Index gained 1.2 percent and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
increased 1.6 percent. The S&P BSE Sensex increased 3.8 percent
and the rupee jumped 2.2 percent as trading resumed following a
holiday. The Jakarta Composite Index added 4 percent. Brazil’s
Ibovespa retreated for the first time in five sessions.  Dubai’s DFM General Index climbed 8.5 percent, the most
among 94 equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg worldwide and the
biggest gain since 2009. Benchmark gauges in  Abu Dhabi  and  Qatar 
jumped 5.5 percent and 4.9 percent respectively. Israel’s TA-25
Index advanced 1.6 percent.  Russia sold its first sovereign bonds in euros, along with
dollar debt, raising 725 million euros ($962 million) from
seven-year securities and $6 billion in bonds due in 2019, 2023
and 2043.  South Africa  sold $2 billion of 12-year bonds in
overseas debt markets after boosting the size of the offering.  The yen slid 0.7 percent to 100.25 per dollar, the weakest
since July 25, and lost 0.7 percent versus the euro. The U.S.
currency was little changed at $1.3259 per euro. Norway’s krone
jumped 1.3 percent to 7.8616 per euro after inflation
accelerated faster than analysts estimated.  Treasury Auction  Treasury three-year note yields were up four basis points
at 0.88 percent, double the 0.44 percent average over the  past
year , as refuge demand waned on speculation a Russian proposal
for Syria to put its chemical weapons under international
control will avert a U.S. military strike.  Notes fell even after an auction of $31 billion in three-year debt drew a lower-than-forecast yield. Ten-year yields
traded at almost 3 percent after reaching that level last week
for the first time since 2011 amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will
trim its $85 billion-a-month stimulus at its next meeting.  Ten-year gilt  yields  climbed six basis points to 3.02
percent, the highest since July 2011.  Spain’s bonds rallied, pushing 10-year  yields  below Italy’s
for the first time in 18 months. The Italian bonds failed to
match the gains in Spanish securities on concern a vote on
whether to expel  Silvio Berlusconi  from Italy’s Senate will
destabilize the coalition government.  Continued Trend  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  prepared to sell what may be a
record amount of bonds to finance the purchase of a stake in its
mobile phone unit from Vodafone Group Plc. The offering in as
many as eight parts may exceed Apple’s $17 billion issue in
April.  “The markets have continued the trend of the last week,
the equity markets feel very strong and the fixed-income markets
on the investment-grade side are watching the Verizon deal,”
Matt Freund, chief investment officer at USAA Investments in San
Antonio where he helps oversee about $57 billion, said by phone.
“We’re starting to see very large transactions to occur in the
 debt market  and the Verizon deal is generating a lot of
interest.”  Verizon Offering  Verizon may sell three-, five-, seven, 10-, 20-, and 30-year debt as soon as Sept. 11, according to a person with
knowledge of the offering. The New-York based company may also
sell securities in euros, pounds, and possibly yen, Societe
Generale analysts wrote in a report dated Sept. 8.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds fell
to the lowest in almost a month. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of credit-default swaps on 125 investment-grade companies
decreased 1.7 basis points to 98.9 basis points, the least since
Aug. 14.  Oil dropped for a second day in New York, falling 1.9
percent to $107.39 a barrel and gold declined 1.6 percent to
$1,364 an ounce. The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities slipped
1.5 percent, the second consecutive decline, as silver retreated
3 percent to help lead gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  