-- Asian Stocks Rise on Tokyo Olympics Win, China’s Exports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-09T09:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/asian-stocks-rise-on-china-exports-tokyo-olympics-win.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index extending its longest rally in nine months,
after  Tokyo  won the rights to host the 2020 Olympics,  China ’s
exports beat estimates and  Australia  elected a new government.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  advanced 4.6 percent,
pacing gains among Chinese lenders. Mitsubishi Estate Co. jumped
4.7 percent as  Japan ’s biggest developer by market value may
benefit from projects such as the Olympic Village complex that
will house athletes.  BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, added 1.4 percent in Sydney on optimism the new
Australian government will abolish a mining tax.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.4 percent to 135.64
as of 5:57 p.m. in  Hong Kong , with almost six shares rising for
each that fell. The gauge has advanced for eight days, its
longest rally since December. The measure last week posted the
biggest increase since April as data from China, the U.S. and
Europe added to signs the global economy is recovering.  “Data from China has been pointing to a bit of
stability,” Mark Lister, Wellington-based head of private
wealth research at Craigs Investment Partners Ltd., said by
telephone. “Tokyo winning the right to host the Olympics is a
positive for Japan as that will do a lot for tourism and
growth.”  Japan’s Topix index jumped 2.2 percent to the highest
closing level in a month. Tokyo’s winning bid to host the 2020
Olympics may drive construction and tourism stocks higher and
boost  consumer confidence , playing into Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s plan to revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  Japanese Economy  The Topix extended this year’s surge to 36 percent, as
Japanese equities perform the best among developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Shares have jumped amid optimism Abe and
the  Bank of Japan  can lead the country out of deflation with
stimulus and reforms.  A report today showed Japan’s economy expanded a revised
3.8 percent in the second quarter on an annualized basis, up
from an original estimate of 2.6 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index gained 1 percent.  Singapore ’s
Straits Times Index climbed 1.3 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index
added 0.3 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index increased 0.4
percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.6 percent and the
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 3.4 percent as reports today
showed China’s consumer inflation stayed below target for an
eighth month while factory-gate prices fell by the least in six
months in August, reflecting an economic pickup that leaves room
for officials to add stimulus if needed.  China Exports  China’s  exports  advanced 7.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the General Administration of Customs said in Beijing
yesterday. That compares with the 5.5 percent median estimate of
46 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  and July’s 5.1 percent
gain.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.7 percent.  Tony
Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition won Australia’s weekend
election and is heading for the biggest parliamentary majority
since at least 2004, ushering in a government pledging to
abolish a carbon price and mining tax.  Chinese lenders advanced.  Agricultural Bank of China 
increased 4.6 percent to HK$3.65 in Hong Kong.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest lender,
gained 2.1 percent to HK$5.39. Bank of China Ltd. rose 1.5
percent to HK$3.50.  Ping An Bank Co., the least capitalized of China’s 17
publicly traded lenders, jumped 10 percent to 12.13  yuan  in
Shenzhen after saying it plans to sell 14.8 billion yuan ($2.4
billion) of stock to its controlling shareholder Ping An
Insurance Group Co. to bolster its financial strength.  Vinda International  Vinda International Holdings Ltd. surged 37 percent to
HK$10.88, the most since July 2007. Sweden’s Svenska Cellulosa
AB,  Europe ’s biggest private forest owner, offered to buy all
outstanding Vinda stock in cash for HK$11 a share, about 38
percent more than the Chinese tissue maker’s last traded price
before the announcement.  Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index trade at 13.3 times
estimated earnings, compared with 15 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 13.9 for Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese developers and construction companies led gains on
the Topix. With the economy already rebounding from the impact
of Abe’s reflationary policies, winning the rights to host the
Olympics bolsters optimism that Japan will succeed in quelling
deflation and stoking domestic demand.  Mitsubishi Estate climbed 4.7 percent to 2,825 yen in
Tokyo. Mitsui Fudosan Co., the nation’s biggest developer by
sales, jumped 6.4 percent to 3,430 yen. Taisei Corp., a building
contractor, surged 14 percent to 463 yen.  Miners Rise  Australian miners rose. Abbott will have to negotiate with
minor parties in the Senate to scrap carbon pricing and a mining
tax after his coalition won the biggest lower house majority
since at least 2004 in Australia’s election.  BHP Billiton gained 1.4 percent to A$35.64.  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company, added 1.4
percent to A$61.95.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. The gauge closed little changed on Sept. 6 amid
escalating tensions over  Syria . American employers added 169,000
workers last month, missing the median forecast of 180,000 in a
Bloomberg survey of 96 economists. The  unemployment rate  fell
unexpectedly to 7.3 percent as more people left the  labor force .  The  Federal Reserve  has said any reduction in stimulus will
be tied to a sustained recovery in U.S. employment. The central
bank will decide to cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases this month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  holds a two-day meeting on Sept. 17-18.  “Markets have been strong so far this month, but we
shouldn’t forget there are still quite a few risks out there,”
Lister said. “The Fed could do some tapering, perhaps in a
smaller scale, and that could give headwinds to the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  