-- Aston Martin Said to Plan New CEO to Double Auto Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-10T13:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/aston-martin-said-to-plan-new-ceo-to-double-sales.html
Aston Martin  is aiming to double
sales by 2016 with new models and an expansion of its dealer
network outside Europe. The British maker of  sports cars 
featured in  James Bond movies  may then invest in a sport-utility
vehicle to broaden its appeal to wealthy drivers.  The supercar producer plans to appoint a new chief
executive officer in the next three months, while CEO Ulrich Bez, who has led Aston since 2000, will probably become a non-executive chairman, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the talks, who asked not to be identified as the matter is
private.  Aston Martin  has several candidates for the post, the
person said. A company representative declined to comment.  Aston Martin is the only global luxury-auto  producer  that
doesn’t belong to a larger manufacturing group. Following
London-based investment firm Investindustrial’s purchase of a
37.5 percent stake late last year, the carmaker laid out plans
in January to spend 500 million pounds ($785 million) on
expansion in the next four years to challenge  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari and Maserati. Investindustrial
declined to comment for this story.  Investindustrial Chairman  Andrea Bonomi  said earlier this
year he wants to expand Aston’s line-up while establishing
partnerships to limit the cost of developing models. The U.K.
carmaker signed a deal in July to obtain engines from the AMG
high-performance division of  Daimler AG (DAI) , the owner of the
Mercedes-Benz luxury-car brand. Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler
will receive a 5 percent stake in Aston over time, depending on
the progress of their technical partnership.  Frankfurt Models  Aston Martin is showing the CC100 Speedster concept, as
well as the V12 Vantage S and Vanquish Volante production
models, at the International Motor Show in  Frankfurt .  Aston has a target of boosting annual sales to about 7,000
vehicles in 2016 from about 3,400 cars in 2012, with growth
propelled by catering to growing demand in  Asia , North and  South
America , said the person. The carmaker may then develop, as a
second part of its expansion plan, an SUV designed to attract
wealthy drivers, the person said.  Investindustrial may boost its holding in Aston Martin in
coming years with a capital increase needed to invest in new
projects, such as the SUV, the person said.  SUV Expansion  “Aston Martin, which now has such a considerable partner
as Daimler, has a lot of cachet related to James Bond movies
which hasn’t been fully exploited, so it could find its space in
the growing luxury SUV market” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst at
IHS Automotive in London. IHS estimates Aston may double annual
sales to 7,530 cars in 2017, helped by new V8-engine versions of
the Vantage and DB9 models. The prediction excludes an SUV.  Fiat’s Maserati and VW’s Bentley are among supercar makers
developing SUVs to expand in the U.S and  emerging markets  such
as China and Russia, where there’s a growing class of wealthy
consumers. Longer driving distances and larger areas of
undeveloped land also make SUVs popular in all three countries.  Investindustrial, which also sold Italian motorcycle maker
Ducati to Volkswagen’s Audi division in mid-2012, completed the
190 million-euro purchase of the Aston stake in May, and gained
management control of the carmaker, which is celebrating its
centennial this year. Bonomi pledged in January to remain an
Aston Martin shareholder for at least 10 years.  Aston Martin’s other shareholders are Kuwaiti companies
Investment Dar and Adeem Investment Co., which bought the U.K.
carmaker in 2007 from Ford Motor Co., the manufacturer’s owner
for 20 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  