-- Autodesk Boosts Software Subscriptions to Lure Customers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-09T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/autodesk-boosts-software-subscriptions-to-lure-customers.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , the maker of
architectural and engineering software, is introducing
subscriptions for its most-expensive software, seeking to
attract and retain more customers.  The change, which takes effect Sept. 16, lets designers of
buildings, equipment, computer games and film effects opt for
periodic payments to use Autodesk’s computer-aided tools and
Maya effects software for films, Andrew Anagnost, senior vice
president of industry strategy, said in an interview.  The  software industry  is moving toward subscription
payments for online and desktop software as consumers and
businesses seek access to a steady stream of new features
instead of being stuck with one version of a software package.
For Autodesk, which is facing declining sales and  profit , the
move to subscriptions is also a way to keep customers who are
less willing to pay for big up-front licenses, Anagnost said.
The new offerings are “for customers who have struggled to get
access to our solutions,” he said.  Autodesk’s  Product Design Suite Premium , 3-D software to
test prototypes of products like factory and farm equipment,
would cost $3,750 a year under the new plan, less than half the
one-time price of $8,620 to permanently own the product, the
company said.  Sales for  San Rafael , California-based Autodesk are
projected to decline 1 percent to $2.29 billion for the current
fiscal year through January, increasing 4 percent in the prior
period, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Its  shares  have
returned 10 percent the past five years, compared with a 53
percent return for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information
Technology Sector Index.  Design Disruption  “There definitely is pressure in the commercial and
entertainment spaces to pay lower prices,” Anagnost said. Small
companies that design games for smartphones don’t need the
powerful tools used by major studios such as  Activision Blizzard
Inc. (ATVI) , and home builders are using more affordable software, he
said.  “Everyone’s very familiar with the fact that when
platforms change, prices go down and incumbents are disrupted,”
said Anagnost. “We have no intention of being disrupted.”  Autodesk will offer customers of its Design and Creation
suites, 3ds Max, Maya and Maya LT software the option to rent
them for monthly, quarterly or annual fees instead of purchasing
them outright. It’s the latest in a series of moves by Autodesk
to encourage customers to adopt regular maintenance programs,
giving them the ability to upgrade to new versions over time.  Customer Shift  “Autodesk already has about 70 percent of its customers on
a subscription plan, and it appears unlikely the company can
force an economic change again after pushing aggressively on
subscription for the last 10 years,” Walter Pritchard, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in an Aug. 23 note to clients.  Autodesk issued a  forecast  for fiscal third-quarter revenue
on Aug. 22 that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Shares of Autodesk rose less than 1 percent on Sept. 6 to
$37.14 in  New York . The shares have gained 5.1 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent return for the S&P 500
Information Technology index and an 24 percent return for  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE) , another maker of design software that’s moving its
users to subscription pricing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  