-- Baidu’s Travel Site Qunar.com Said to Prepare U.S. Initial Offer
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n ,   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-09-09T08:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/baidu-s-travel-site-qunar-com-said-to-prepare-u-s-initial-offer.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s travel-booking service
Qunar.com Inc. is planning a U.S. initial public offering that
may raise about $150 million, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Qunar, which runs  China ’s most popular mobile travel app,
is working with Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on
the sale, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private. An IPO may take place as early
as in the fourth quarter, they said.  Baidu, operator of China’s largest search engine, paid $306
million in 2011 for a majority stake in Qunar to tap the
country’s growing travel market. The travel site’s search
coverage includes about 1,250 travel agencies, 125,000 flight
routes and more than 468,000 hotels, according to its website.  Qunar, which means “where to go” in Chinese, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the IPO.  Qunar expects to double sales this year to about 1 billion
 yuan  ($163 million), helped by an expanding middle class and
rising use of its mobile application, Chief Executive Officer
Zhuang Chenchao said in January. The company generates most of
its revenue through advertising. It had about 43 million users
at the end of June, according to its website.  The site will hire “hundreds” of software engineers this
year as it tries to let users do as much as possible online,
Zhuang said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  