-- Bank of America Said to Cut 2,100 Jobs in Mortgage Slump
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-09-09T21:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/bank-of-america-said-to-cut-2-100-jobs-in-mortgage-slump.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender, will eliminate about 2,100 jobs and shutter
16 mortgage offices as rising interest rates weaken loan demand,
said two people with direct knowledge of the plans.  About 1,500 of the workers helped  process home loans , said
one of the people, who asked for anonymity because while
affected employees were notified on Aug. 29, the scope of the
plans hadn’t been publicly announced. About 400 worked in a
suburban  Cleveland  call center, and 200 dealt with overdue
mortgages, the person said. The reductions are scheduled to be
completed by Oct. 31, the people said.  Mortgage lenders are paring staff as higher interest rates
discourage refinancing and cast doubt on how long the housing
market rebound will last. Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S.
home lender, plans more than 2,300 job cuts, and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. may dismiss 15,000. Bank of America’s pending home loans
fell 5 percent at the end of June from the previous quarter.  The changes “reflect our ongoing efforts to streamline our
facilities and align our cost structure with market realities,”
said  Terry Francisco , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank.  The lender targeted three offices in  California  as well as
locations in  Virginia ,  Washington ,  Texas  and  Ohio , according to
employee discussions held last month, said the people. Some will
be offered work elsewhere in the firm, the people said. Bank of
America’s staff totaled more than 257,000 at mid-year.  Countrywide Cutbacks  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is again scaling
back on operations gained in the 2008 takeover of Countrywide
Financial Corp., once the biggest U.S. mortgage lender. After
shuttering reverse mortgage and correspondent lending units in
2011, the firm targeted smaller ex-Countrywide offices to close
or consolidate, said one of the people.  Regulators and lawmakers blamed Countrywide for lax
standards and predatory lending that contributed to the housing
bubble and the crisis that followed, which has cost Bank of
America more than $45 billion. Countrywide was acquired under
Moynihan’s predecessor, Kenneth Lewis.  “We’re pretty much through the refi boom, and we don’t
know yet what the purchase business will look like,” said Nancy Bush, founder of NAB Research LLC, a bank research firm in New
Jersey. “Countrywide was everywhere, so Bank of America’s
particular challenge is to go from this hot-mess mortgage
company to a rational one.”  The cuts will leave about 25 mortgage offices, said one of
the people. The single biggest site affected is in suburban
Cleveland and had 1,000 employees, said the person. That part of
the reduction was  reported  last month by the Plain Dealer.  Rate Impact  Most of the dismissals are in addition to the 30,000
announced in 2011 as part of Project New BAC, Moynihan’s plan to
reduce expenses, said one of the people.  “We do anticipate some slowdown in mortgage production
resulting from recent increases in interest rates,” Bruce
Thompson, Bank of America’s chief financial officer, said in a
July 17 conference call.  The cost of a 30-year fixed home loan rose to 4.57 percent
last week from 3.35 percent in May.  Refinancing made up 70 percent of the mortgage market
during the first half, slid to about 50 percent recently and
could fall further in coming months, Franklin Codel, head of
mortgage production for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said
last month in a staff memo.  Tim Sloan, Wells Fargo’s finance chief, told an investor
conference today that rising interest rates probably won’t mean
an end to the housing market’s rebound because new families are
being created and homes are still affordable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  