-- Batista Said to Try Last Ditch Plan to Avoid Bankruptcy
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-09T12:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/batista-said-to-try-last-ditch-plan-to-avoid-bankruptcy.html
Brazilian entrepreneur  Eike
Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA is asking a group
of investors for at least $250 million in fresh capital in an
effort to avert bankruptcy, two people with direct knowledge of
the matter said.  The capital injection for OGX would be part of a
restructuring in which Batista will ask bondholders to convert
$3.6 billion of debt into OGX  stock , diluting Batista in the
company, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the discussions are private. Investors including Abu Dhabi’s
sovereign-wealth fund,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
buyout firms are being asked to participate in the capital
increase, which could reach $500 million, the people said.  The former billionaire is seeking to refinance and raise
capital after OGX output collapsed at the company’s first
project, prompting Deutsche Bank AG to predict the firm would
run out of cash by the end of this quarter. Most creditors
believe OGX would seek bankruptcy protection without the debt-to-equity swap and fresh capital, the people said.  “If I was a bondholder, the thing I’d most want to see is
a strong operator like Petronas taking over OGX,” Michael
Roche, an emerging-market strategist at Seaport Group LLC, said
in a telephone interview from New York on Sept. 4.  Batista plans to present a formal proposal on the debt
restructuring to creditors this week and negotiations are under
way, the people said.  OGX, based in Rio de Janeiro, declined to comment on the
debt restructuring talks in an emailed response to questions.  Petronas Deal  A spokesman for the Abu Dhabi fund, Mubadala Development
Co., declined to comment on the talks. Azman Ibrahim, a Petronas
spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  OGX lost 88 percent of its value this year before today,
helping push Batista off the Bloomberg Billionaires Index in
July.  A  bondholders’  committee led by Pacific Investment
Management Co. and other international funds represents
investors in more than half of outstanding debt. Many
bondholders have indicated they could accept a debt-to-equity
swap as long as Batista cedes control of OGX, a third person
said.  Petronas said last month that its pending $850 million
purchase of a 40 percent stake in an OGX field called Tubarao
Martelo hinges on the debt restructuring. OGX said Petronas
didn’t have the right to set that condition.  Mubadala is in talks to buy some of Batista’s assets,
including OGX, for about $1 billion, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said in August.  $1 Billion Put Option  OGX shares surged a record 73 percent last week to 52
centavos after the company said it exercised a $1 billion put
option, calling on Batista to buy up front $100 million of new
shares at 6.3 reais apiece -- more than 10 times their market
value.  Batista agreed to the put option last year to guarantee the
company would have enough cash to expand exploration in  Brazil .
He notified OGX of a conflict over the put option, saying in a
letter to the company dated Sept. 6 that if an agreement isn’t
reached in 60 days, the matter will go to arbitration, according
to a regulatory filing today.  The businessman isn’t in a position to make good on the
pledge, said Michael Wang, an analyst at IHS Herold in Norwalk,
 Connecticut .  “It’s a bogus announcement unless OGX can take Batista to
court,” Wang said by telephone. “Batista doesn’t have a $1
billion to subscribe to the shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  