-- BG May Buy Gas Fields in Canada to Produce LNG for Asia
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-09-09T16:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/bg-may-buy-gas-fields-in-canada-to-produce-lng-for-asia.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K. energy
company planning to become world’s largest seller of liquefied
natural gas, is looking at purchasing fields in Canada that
could supply a proposed LNG plant on the nation’s Pacific Coast.  “We are pursuing several supply options and would
anticipate supply from owned resource and purchased from the
markets,” Chief Operating Officer Martin Houston said today.  BG plans to build an LNG plant on Ridley Island in British
Columbia to ship the fuel to growing markets in Asia. It has
already agreed to build an 850-kilometer (525-mile) pipeline
with  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  to pump gas to the facility and is
looking to secure further resources.  BG plans two production units at the Prince Rupert LNG
plant with a combined capacity of 14 million metric tons a year,
and may have an option to add one more, Houston told investors
today in  London . The terminal is one of several planned for
Canada’s Pacific Coast to liquefy gas for shipment by tanker.  “We are exploring options with some of the promoters of
the other western Canada LNG projects to see if we can cooperate
in the development of the shared pipeline,” Houston said.  BG expects to make a final  investment  decision on the
Prince Rupert venture in 2016 and will pay a fee to bring gas to
the plant through the proposed pipeline.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,
Canada’s second-biggest pipeline operator, has been working with
Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  on two separate
plans for westbound pipelines through British Columbia.  BG expects to produce its first LNG in Canada around 2020,
Houston said. The Reading, England-based company is set to
become the world’s largest seller of LNG in 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  