-- Biogen Expands Isis Partnership in $100 Million Drug Deal
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-09-09T20:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/biogen-expands-isis-partnership-in-100-million-deal.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the maker of the
multiple sclerosis pill Tecfidera, expanded its partnership with
 Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  in a deal worth at least $100 million
to develop drugs for neurological disorders.  Biogen will pay Carlsbad, California-based Isis $100
million upfront and as much as $220 million per compound in
potential milestone payments, the companies said today in a
statement. The six-year deal gives Weston, Massachusetts-based
Biogen exclusive access to Isis’s antisense technology platform
to identify targets and develop drugs for neurological diseases.  Antisense therapy works on the underlying genetic causes of
disease, turning genes on or off to fix a defect. The agreement
expands on three others Biogen has signed with Isis in the last
two years, including one to develop a drug for spinal muscular
atrophy.  “This is a more expansive collaboration,” Biogen Chief
Executive Officer George Scangos said in a telephone interview.
“The teams have worked extraordinarily well together.”  Spinal muscular atrophy is a good example of a disorder on
which the companies would collaborate, Stanley Crooke, Isis’s
chief executive, said. A rare genetic disorder, the most severe
form of SMA is characterized by very little production of a
specific protein, and can kill patients before age 2.  Isis  rose 14 percent  to $31.81 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, its
biggest one-day increase since June 24. Biogen shares gained 1.6
percent to $228.86.  Lou Gehrig’s Disease  The companies may also target diseases such as amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, also known as  Lou Gehrig ’s disease, Crooke
and Scangos said. Biogen had been developing a drug for ALS,
dexpramipexole, that failed to show any benefit earlier this
year in the last stage of clinical trials.  “Biogen has a pretty aggressive program to understand more
about the genetic causes of ALS,” Scangos said. One part of
that, an academic group, is “already generating interesting
insights into the biology and some potential targets we would
hope to be able to take forward.”  The partnership is the first for Isis around an entire
therapeutic area, Crooke said. The company doesn’t have a sales
force, preferring to make partnerships with larger drugmakers to
run late-stage clinical studies and to market its medicines. Its
first approved drug, Kynamro, for a rare cholesterol disorder,
is marketed by  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Genzyme unit.  Isis may try to do more deals similar to this one, Crooke
said.  “This is the next step in the evolution of our partnering
strategy,” Crooke said. “It makes a lot of sense for us; what
we need is to make sure our partners understand our technology,
are ready for the drugs when they’re ready for them, and that
there are people in the organizations we can trust to do a good
job with our assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  