-- BlackRock to JPMorgan See Deeper Emerging-Market Losses
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-09T15:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/blackrock-to-jpmorgan-see-deeper-emerging-market-losses.html
Wall Street’s biggest firms are
predicting intensifying bond losses in emerging markets, where
borrowing costs have already soared to the highest in more than
four years versus U.S. corporate debt, as the  Federal Reserve 
considers curtailing record stimulus.  “We’re not yet convinced that we’ve seen the worst in
terms of flows out of emerging markets,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , the
chief investment strategist in fixed-income at New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said in a
telephone interview, expressing his own views. “We see a lot of
valuation change but we see the potential for even more
valuation change.”  Investors have yanked $22.1 billion from emerging-market
bond funds since the end of April, almost five times the amount
pulled from U.S. corporate credit, according to EPFR Global.
That’s pushed the extra yield that buyers now demand to own
dollar-denominated emerging-market debt instead of U.S. company
notes to 1.4 percentage points, about the most since December
2008.  Borrowing costs are soaring from record lows reached in
January as speculation deepens that the Fed will curtail its so-called quantitative easing as soon as this month, signaling an
end to the flood of cheap money that's propped up asset prices
from  India  to  China  and  Indonesia . The exodus from developing
nations began after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
on May 22 that the central bank could scale back the pace of its
$85 billion of purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries if the
 U.S. economy  showed sustained improvement.  ‘Defensive View’  Emerging-market debt has lost 7.9 percent since the end of
April, versus a 5.1 percent decline on U.S. corporates, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. While an expansion in the
world’s biggest economy is accelerating, growth in China is
projected to slow to 7.5 percent this year from as high as 14.2
percent in 2007, according to 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Given the likelihood of further rate volatility and an
uncertain emerging-markets growth outlook, we maintain our
defensive view” on corporates from  developing countries ,
analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  in  New York  at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the world’s largest underwriter of corporate bonds, wrote
in a Sept. 5 report.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of
79.6 basis points as of 11:38 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level on an intraday basis since Aug. 27
for the measure, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.92 basis point to 14.88 basis points
as of 11:40 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Ford Bonds  Bonds of Ford Motor Co. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3.3 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:42 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Following average annual returns of 15.3 percent in the
four years ended last December, dollar-denominated emerging
markets notes have lost 6.8 percent this year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. That compares with a 2.9
percent loss in 2013 on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield index.  “Developed markets paper has held in much better than
emerging markets paper,” said Stephen Antczak, the head of U.S.
credit strategy at New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-biggest underwriter of emerging-market bonds. “What worries me
is if you don’t have this natural support in place, you could
get a disproportionate selloff in emerging markets.”  Avoiding India  Investors are withdrawing more cash from developing
nations’ bonds after pouring $58.8 billion last year into funds
that buy the debt, EPFR data show. Emerging-market debt was seen
as a haven with higher-yielding securities amid a U.S. stimulus
program that’s  funneled  more than $2.6 trillion into the
financial system since September 2008.  Yields on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Emerging
Markets External Debt Sovereign and Corporate Plus index have
climbed to 5.73 percent after reaching an all-time low of 4.04
percent on Jan. 24.  The gap in yields with U.S. company debt widened to as much
as 1.44 percentage points on Aug. 31, the most since reaching
1.47 percentage points on Dec. 1, 2008.  The $22.1 billion of outflows from emerging-market debt
funds in the past four months compare with $4.6 billion of
withdrawals from U.S. corporate bond funds, EPFR data show.  Asian economies have been among the hardest hit. A JPMorgan
 index  of Indian dollar-denominated bond yields touched 6.525
percent on Sept. 5, the highest since January, with BNP Paribas
SA forecasting economic growth of 3.7 percent through next
March, compared with a 10-year average of about 8 percent.  Fed Meeting  India is “one country we’re completely avoiding and have
been doing so for 12 months,” said Hayden Briscoe, a Hong Kong-based director of Asia-Pacific fixed-income at AllianceBernstein
 Hong Kong  Ltd.  The U.S., which plunged into a recession five years ago as
spiraling home values prompted a credit seizure, will probably
grow by 2.7 percent next year and 3 percent in 2015 from 1.6
percent this year, a Bloomberg survey of 73 economists shows.  With the Fed expected to start decreasing its bond-buying
program at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, borrowing costs have climbed
for bonds globally. Yields on  10-year Treasuries (USGG10YR)  reached 2.99
percent on Sept. 5, the highest since July 2011.  The underperformance of emerging-market debt relative to
U.S. corporate notes has been sustained for one of the longest
periods in history, the JPMorgan analysts wrote in their report.  China Opportunity  “When underperformance causes a selloff in the market and
liquidity worsens as a result, you have a huge gapping in risk
valuation,” said Edwin Chan, the head of credit research at UBS
AG in Hong Kong.  While the rout may eventually present a buying opportunity
--  Mark McCombe , BlackRock’s Asia-Pacific chairman, talking to
Bloomberg TV today, said  China’s economy  is stabilizing and he’s
“pretty positive on it” -- losses for  emerging markets  debt
have the potential to accelerate, BlackRock’s Rosenberg said.  “Emerging markets risk has gone up more than the risk
associated with U.S. corporates,” Rosenberg said. “We’re not
yet ready to say it’s time to pile into emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  