-- BOE Won’t Shy Away From Conflict on New Bank Rules, Bailey Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-09-09T08:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/boe-won-t-shy-away-from-conflict-on-new-bank-rules-bailey-says.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Andrew Bailey  said regulators are prepared to clash with banks
over any resistance to tougher capital rules.  “We don’t believe that putting more capital into the
system is detrimental,” Bailey, chief executive officer of the
Prudential Regulation Authority, told Bloomberg Television’s Guy Johnson in an interview broadcast today. “A better-capitalized
system, a more stable system, is good for financial stability,
will be good for the banking system and good for the economy.”  The PRA, a unit of the Bank of England, said on Aug. 2 that
British banks must hold better quality capital against risks not
captured under Basel rules. The regulator is already imposing a
3 percent leverage ratio, forcing lenders to hold 3 pounds of
equity for every 100 pounds of assets, to make the financial
system more resilient and avoid future bailouts.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Antony Jenkins is among bank executives
that have initially warned that tougher capital rules may force
British lenders to cut lending, while U.K. Business Secretary
Vince Cable has referred to the BOE as a “capital Taliban” for
imposing additional burdens on the system.  That view is opposed by the BOE’s  Financial Policy
Committee , of which Bailey is a member. The panel, set up in the
wake of the financial crisis, monitors the banking system for
risks and is pushing lenders to boost their resilience.  Bailey said in the interview in  London  that it’s “probably
not surprising” that “putting more loss absorbency into the
system is going to raise a degree of conflict.”  Regulators “haven’t taken a deliberate decision to be
aggressive,” he said. Still, “there will be times when the
application of judgment -- our judgment is based on our
interpretation of the public interest -- is perceived to come
into conflict with interests of other parties.”  The FPC holds its next meeting on Sept. 18 and will release
a statement on its deliberations on Sept. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Guy Johnson  in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  