-- BP Texas Refinery Neighbors Seek Billions at Toxin Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-09-09T21:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/bp-texas-refinery-neighbors-seek-billions-at-toxin-trial.html
BP Plc (BP/)  faces the first of almost
48,000 toxic exposure claims from neighbors of a Texas refinery
who say they’ll give the billions of dollars in punitive damages
they’re seeking to charity if they win at trial.  The residents claim BP intentionally exposed them to
cancer-causing gases for five weeks in 2010 without any warning.
The four plaintiffs in the state court  trial  that started today
in Galveston seek as much as $200,000 each in actual damages,
plus $10 billion in punitive damages they said in court papers
would be donated.  BP knowingly vented at least 500,000 pounds of toxic
chemicals, including benzene, from a faulty refinery unit to a
flare the company knew was incapable of destroying the toxins,
 Tony Buzbee , the residents’ lead attorney, said in a phone
interview. He claims BP would have lost more than $20 million if
it had shut the unit down during repairs.  “BP decided there was just too much money to be made at
the time, so they decided to flare the emissions and take the
consequences,” Buzbee said. He plans to ask jurors to send BP a
message that “the wanton poisoning of an entire community is
not an acceptable business practice,” he said.  London-based BP denies anyone was injured by emissions from
the  refinery , which was later sold.  “Neither the community air-monitoring network nor the BP
fence-line monitors showed elevated readings during April and
May 2010,”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, said by e-mail before
the trial. “We do not believe that any negative health impacts
resulted from flaring at BP’s Texas City refinery during this
period.”  Oil Spill  The Texas City emissions incident overlapped with the
beginning of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill , which was caused
by the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig while drilling a
BP well off the Louisiana coast. BP has paid more than $30
billion in spill cleanup costs, fines and damages and still
faces thousands of spill-related injury and damage claims in
federal court in  New Orleans .  The large number of local residents suing the company over
the emissions case gives the plaintiffs in this trial a “home
court” advantage, said  David Berg , a Houston trial attorney who
isn’t involved in the BP litigation.  “I don’t see how the jury can be anything but friendly to
the plaintiffs,” Berg said in a phone interview. “But BP has
such a terrible reputation for recklessness and disregard for
safety, you could probably try this case in  England  and win.”  Jury Pool  About 250 jurors were summoned to the Galveston courthouse
today, where they answered a six-page questionnaire intended to
weed out people with strong opinions about BP. Craig Eiland, a
former state legislator who represents a group of police
officers and firefighters in the case, said several prospective
jurors were dismissed because they are plaintiffs whose claims
will be tried in later stages of the litigation.  Potential jurors were asked if they “believe even one
molecule of a known dangerous chemical will usually cause long-term health problems” and whether they think living near local
refineries “usually causes” long-term health issues, according
to a copy of the questionnaire provided by a lawyer in the case.
They were also asked if they believe “large refineries would
knowingly violate their own safety standards if they thought
they could get away with it” and whether they listen to certain
conservative talk-radio hosts.  This trial will test claims of four individuals who lived
or worked in the immediate vicinity of the plant, according to
court records. Two other plaintiffs were dropped from the trial
before jury selection began.  BP Products North America has a lengthy litigation history
with the Texas City refinery, which the company sold to  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  in a transaction announced last October.  2005 Explosion  More than 3,000 people sued BP after a 2005 explosion at
the site killed 15 workers and injured hundreds. BP ultimately
paid $2.1 billion to settle those claims.  About 100 area residents sued BP separately over health
complaints following the leak of an unidentified gas that lasted
about an hour at the Texas City plant in 2007. A federal jury in
Galveston awarded more than $100 million for the first 10 of
these emission claims, almost all of it punitive damages. The
trial judge threw out that 2009 award, and the verdicts were
overturned on appeal.  Forty-Day Event  “This case is different from that one,” Buzbee said.
“This was a 40-day event that’s documented -- even BP admits it
happened -- involving known carcinogens.” The company was slow
to tell the community or regulators of the leak and
underreported the volume of toxins released, he said.  BP agreed in 2011 to pay Texas $50 million to settle air-pollution violations at the plant from 2005 through 2011,
including the release of about 500,000 pounds of harmful
chemicals during the 2010 flaring incident.  BP disputes the claim that enough chemicals were released
to harm residents.  “Plaintiffs’ own experts admit” that toxin concentrations
“did not exceed any health-based government standards,”
 Katherine Mackillop , a BP lawyer, said in court papers. “All of
the plaintiffs’ complaints are transient, minor complaints
commonly experienced by the general public every day -- like
sore throats, headaches, coughing, irritated eyes and the
like.”  Opening statements are set to begin Sept. 11, with the
trial estimated to last six weeks.  The case is In re MDL Litigation Regarding Texas City
Refinery Ultracracker Emission Event Litigation, 10-UC-0001,
Texas 56th Judicial District Court (Galveston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  