-- Canada to Work With U.S. on Emission Cuts, Minister Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-09T18:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/canada-to-work-with-u-s-on-emission-cuts-minister-says.html
Canada ’s Natural Resources Minister
Joe Oliver said his nation wants to work with the U.S. to cut
greenhouse-gas emissions, including from  Alberta ’s  oil sands ,
the source of crude to be carried by the Keystone XL pipeline.  Canada is pursuing policies to reduce carbon-dioxide
emissions from using oil sands to the same level as gasoline
refined from traditional crude, he said today. He discussed
technologies, not policies, that could reduce its greenhouse-gas
footprint.  “Our goal is to reduce entirely that differential,”
Oliver said during a news conference at the  Washington  embassy
of Canada. “We don’t regard the proposed policies as
concessions.”  After meeting with U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz in
Washington, Oliver said his nation has agreed to curb emissions,
in line with pledges made by the U.S., and the offer isn’t a
concession to win approval for the pipeline that will carry oil
sands crude to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries.  Oliver was in Washington amid a stepped-up lobbying push by
supporters and opponents of Keystone. The administration of
President  Barack Obama  must approve the pipeline, which was
proposed by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  five years ago, and has been under
State Department review since then. In June at  Georgetown
University  in Washington, Obama declared in a speech that
Keystone shouldn’t be approved if it were found to
“significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution.  Harper Offer  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  sent a letter to
Obama last month as part of an effort to mollify U.S. concerns
about the greenhouse-gas emissions that would result from
building the pipeline, said a person familiar with the letter
who asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to
discuss it publicly. Oliver declined to comment on the letter
today.  The offer from Harper might give Obama an opening to seek
accommodations as a way to approve the project while blunting
the complaints of increasingly active environmentalists.
Environmental groups have called that offer a desperate ploy
that doesn’t alleviate their concerns.  Oliver said his government will consult with the U.S. on
rules Canada is developing to reduce emissions in the oil and
gas sector. The government has said it will release emission
targets for each sector of the world’s 11th-largest economy.  “The oil and gas sector is next,” he told reporters on a
conference call after the news conference. “We’re working on
that, and that’s an area we’ll be discussing with the
Americans.”  Climate Plan  Moniz discussed Obama’s plan to curb  climate change ,
efforts to deploy clean energy, carbon-capture technologies and
ways to enhance the reliability of the electric grid, according
to Lindsey Geisler, a department spokeswoman.  “There is no way that Canada can meet its targets for
reducing global warming pollution while trying to expand
production of the  tar sands  -- the dirtiest, most carbon
intensive fuel on the planet,” Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for
the group 350.org, which is leading the fight against the
pipeline, said in an e-mail. “It’s like saying that you want to
quit smoking while buying a cartons of unfiltered cigarettes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  