-- Canada Stocks Rise to Highest Since March Amid China Export Data
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-09T20:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/canadian-stocks-rise-as-materials-producers-rally-on-china-data.html
Canadian  stocks  rose to the highest
in almost six months, as data showed building permits surged to
a record and exports in  China  increased more than expected.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. rallied 4.8 percent amid
speculation a potential stake sale in OAO Uralkali may help
bolster global prices for the commodity.  BlackBerry (BB)  Ltd. climbed
5.9 percent after a Sunday Times report said Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. is close to making a bid for the smartphone maker.
 Gabriel Resources (GBU)  Ltd. plunged 54 percent as  Romania ’s
parliament is set to reject the company’s planned gold mine
because of environmental issues.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 33.72
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,854.64 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
highest close since March 12. The benchmark Canadian equity
gauge has advanced 3.4 percent this year. Trading was in line
with the 30-day average.  “There are long-term worries in terms of high debt levels,
but there is no impending housing market crash,” Todd Johnson,
a portfolio manager at Winnipeg, Manitoba-based BCV Asset
Management, said in a phone interview. His firm oversees C$510
million ($492 million). “ Canada  is seen as a proxy for natural
resources and good news out of China can cause traders to buy
Canada. There is a reflexive trade.”  Building Permits  Canadian  building permits  rose to a record in July as the
value of projects such as shopping malls and office buildings
almost doubled, government figures showed today. Canada’s
housing market has been under pressure as household debt levels
reached a record share of income last year. The central bank
last week said there are signs of a “constructive evolution”
of household imbalances.  In China, exports increased more than estimated in August
and inflation stayed below a government target, helping Premier
Li Keqiang sustain a rebound in the world’s second-largest
economy from a two-quarter slowdown. China is the world’s
largest consumer of commodities and Canada’s second-biggest
trading partner.  The S&P/TSX has surged 8.6 percent from a seven-month low
in June as data showed domestic demand continues to lead the
economy and growth in China improves.  Nine out of 10  industry groups  in the S&P/TSX advanced
today. Technology stocks added 1.5 percent for the biggest gain.
Utility companies dropped 0.7 percent.  Consumer-discretionary stocks contributed most to gains in
the index. Alimentation Couche-Tard jumped 1.9 percent to
C$63.08. Loblaw Cos. added 1 percent to C$46.19.  Potash, Smartphones  Potash (POT)  Corp. jumped 4.8 percent to C$32.90, the highest
since July. Billionaire investor Suleiman Kerimov may sell his
stake in Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, Forbes’s
Russian edition said. Uralkali in July abandoned limits on
output that underpinned prices and quit a trading venture with
Belarus that controlled more than 40 percent of global exports.  BlackBerry climbed 5.9 percent to C$11.96, its best close
since June. Prem Watsa, a Toronto businessman, and his
investment firm Fairfax Financial, have billions of dollars in
backing from Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to make a bid
for the rest of the smartphone maker, the Sunday Times reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information. Fairfax
owns almost 10 percent of BlackBerry.  Oncolytics Biotech Inc. surged 12 percent to C$3.09. The
specialty pharmaceutical company said a U.S. Phase 2 study on
its experimental lung-cancer treatment, Reolysin, showed
positive tumor response data.  Gabriel Resources plunged 54 percent to 68 Canadian cents,
the lowest close since 1999. Romanian Prime Minister Victor
Ponta urged lawmakers to vote to reject plans for the company’s
proposed Rosia Montana gold mine. Parliament should “quickly
vote” on whether to drop the project as opposition appears
insurmountable, Ponta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  