-- Canada Dollar Rises to 3-Week High on Record Building Permits
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-09T21:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/canada-dollar-reaches-highest-in-3-weeks-before-housing-reports.html
The Canadian dollar climbed to its
highest level in almost three weeks after building permits rose
to a record in July, adding to signs that the economy is gaining
momentum.  The currency advanced for a second day versus its U.S. peer
as the value of municipal permits climbed 20.7 percent to C$7.99
billion ($7.70 billion),  Statistics Canada  said, with the gain
exceeding all 10 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. A report
tomorrow may show housing starts in August remained at almost
the previous month’s level.  Canada ’s dollar rallied last week
after the country added triple the amount of jobs forecast.  “The double-whammy of employment and a sharp increase in
building numbers this morning is supporting the Canadian dollar
in this range,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist the
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.4 percent to C$1.0369
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0360,
the strongest point since Aug. 20. One loonie buys 96.44 U.S.
cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
yields down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.75
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent securities maturing in
June 2023 gained 19 cents to C$89.45.  Oil, Syria  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell 1.4
percent to $108.94 per barrel in  New York  after touching a two-year high of $112.24 on Aug. 28.  “The downward pressure on oil, with diplomacy taking a
front seat in the  Syria crisis , could be a drag on commodities
more generally,” which is curbing Canadian dollar gains,
Osborne said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  struggled to convince Congress
and the American public of the need for a military strike on
 Syria  for the alleged use of chemical weapons as Bashar al-Assad
threatened retaliation “direct and indirect” if the U.S.
attacks.  Traders are exiting short positions amassed on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart after the nation added more
jobs than forecast in August. The three-month so-called 25 delta
risk reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the
right to buy the U.S. dollar against its Canadian counterpart
versus contracts to sell, traded at 1.29 percent, a five-week
low.  Unwinding Shorts  “Now that we’ve seen the backwash of the requisite
employment report north and south of the border, one would
assume that would prompt some of those shorts to be unwound,”
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, said by phone from  London . “That has provided
the Canadian dollar with some impetus.”  The nation’s economy added 59,200 positions in August,
according to a Sept. 6 Statistics Canada report that exceeded
the 20,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. The
central bank kept its  benchmark  rate at 1 percent for the 24th
consecutive meeting and said slack in the economy will start to
disappear in 2014. Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. may report
Sept. 10 that work began on 190,000 houses in August, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bank of Canada  forecasts third-quarter growth at 3.8
percent in its July monetary policy report. Gross domestic
product grew 1.7 percent in the second quarter.  ‘Scaling Back’  In the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner, the addition
of 169,000 workers last month trailed the 180,000 median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 96 economists. Unemployment
fell to 7.3 percent, the lowest since December 2008, as workers
left the  labor force .  “The broader focus is still on the Fed,” Osborne said.
“If we do see some Canada dollar appreciation, it may be
limited.”  Last week’s payrolls report is the last one Federal Reserve
officials will see before their Sept. 17-18 meeting, at which
they will decide whether to reduce an $85 billion monthly pace
of bond purchases that have bolstered global markets.  “We will still have the tapering, though the market is
scaling back some of the more extreme projections of how far
they’d go,” Stretch said. “The market still anticipates we’ve
got so far down the path now that any pullback in the timing
would create too much uncertainty. Tapering is still very much
in the cards.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.6 percent in the past week
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, the best performer after
the dollars of fellow commodities exporters  Australia  and  New
Zealand . The  U.S. dollar , with a drop of 1.1 percent, is the
biggest decliner after the yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in New York at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  