-- Carney Jobless Task Laid Bare as Rate Seen at 7.8%: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-10T08:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/carney-jobless-goal-in-focus-as-rate-seen-at-7-8-u-k-credit.html
U.K. unemployment data this week
may strengthen  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney ’s argument
that interest rates must remain at a record low for three more
years to help the economy recover.  The  jobless rate  based on International Labour Organization
standards stayed at 7.8 percent in the three months through
July, according to the median estimate of 28 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The rate has not been below 7.7 percent
since 2009. The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the
data at 9:30 a.m. in London tomorrow.  Carney says the  benchmark interest rate  needs to stay at a
record-low 0.5 percent until the end of 2016 for enough jobs to
be created to cut unemployment to 7 percent, when policy makers
would consider raising rates. Investors disagree, pushing gilt
yields to the highest  relative  to German bunds in more than
three years and increasing bets on a rate increase before then.  “It will take a long time to get unemployment down,”
 Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London
and a former BOE official, said yesterday. “Markets might take
a drop to 7.7 percent as a vindication of their view, but we
wouldn’t rush to that same conclusion.”  Guidance Forecasts  Carney, who will address U.K. lawmakers on Sept. 12,
introduced forward guidance last month and said the economy
needs to create more than three quarters of a million jobs for
unemployment to reach 7 percent.  Tomorrow’s report will highlight the long road to get
there. While ILO figures on the number of people out of work
have come down from a  peak of almost 2.7 million  in 2011, the
total has held above 2.4 million since June 2009.  In addition, a further 400,000 government positions are set
to be eliminated over the next three years based on Office for
Budget Responsibility estimates, meaning the private sector
would need to create more than 1 million jobs for the jobless
rate to fall to 7 percent.  Recent business surveys suggest that companies are meeting
increased demand by boosting productivity instead of taking on
workers. Last month, the fastest services expansion since 2006
was accompanied by only “marginal” growth in employment,
according to Markit Economics.  Some companies are hiring. Jaguar,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s high-end British car brand, plans to add 1,700 jobs at its plant in
Solihull,  England  as it invests in a new aluminum technology.  ‘Loose Policy’  Introducing the new guidance regime on Aug. 7, Carney said
that “even under conservative assumptions about the scope for a
productivity rebound, the elimination of the margin of spare
capacity will require a sustained period of robust growth.”  By maintaining loose policy, “the MPC can help to deliver
that,” he said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
raised its forecast last week for U.K. growth in 2013 to 1.5
percent from a prediction of 0.8 percent in May.  Short sterling futures have fallen, indicating investors
are increasing bets on  interest rates  rising before 2016. The
implied yield on the contract expiring in December 2014 was at
1.01 percent, up from 0.68 percent on Aug. 1. The yield on the
March 2015 contract advanced 41 basis points to 1.15 percent in
that period.  The 10-year gilt yield has risen about 35 basis points in
the past month and climbed above 3 percent today. Investors
demanded 100 basis points of  extra yield  to hold U.K. debt
instead of German bunds yesterday, the highest since May 2010.  “Market expectations are that the  unemployment rate  is
going to come down a lot quicker than the BOE expects,” said
Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London ,
who forecasts the first rate increase in February 2015. “I have
reservations on the bank’s views on productivity.”  Carney’s Message  Carney’s message has so far focused on consumers and
executives, and there are signs it’s getting through. The
proportion of people expecting a rate increase in the next year
fell to 29 percent last month from 34 percent in May, the BOE
said in its quarterly Inflation Attitudes survey. That’s the
lowest since November 2008.  The governor will get an opportunity to defend his approach
when he and other members of the Monetary Policy Committee are
questioned by lawmakers on Parliament’s Treasury Select
Committee. Carney, Markets Director  Paul Fisher ,  David Miles  and
 Ian McCafferty  will appear at 10 a.m. on Sept. 12.  He’s already had support from Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , who said yesterday that recent market moves
“vindicate” the need for guidance. “The counterfactual would
have been even bigger increases in yields in response to
positive economic data,” he said in a speech in London.  “Now that a sustained recovery has finally taken hold in
the U.K., one of the main risks to the outlook continues to be
the possibility of rising interest rates,” said Nida Ali,
economic adviser to the Ernst & Young ITEM Club in London.
Osborne’s support for Carney’s policies “are a step in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  