-- Centerra Agrees to Discuss Kumtor Stake Swap With Kyrgyzstan
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-09T23:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/centerra-agrees-to-discuss-kumtor-stake-swap-with-kyrgyzstan.html
Centerra Gold Inc. (CG) , the Canadian
operator of the Kumtor pit in  Kyrgyzstan , agreed to discuss a
proposal that would give the country a 50 percent stake in the
mine, the company’s largest operation.  The parties made a non-binding agreement that would involve
state-controlled Kyrgyzaltyn JSC exchanging its 33 percent stake
in the company for the mine stake, Toronto-based Centerra said
yesterday in a statement. Centerra would remain the operator and
manager of the mine, it said.  Centerra has been negotiating with the government to
address concerns raised in a report by a state commission
regarding taxes and ownership issues around the project. The
Kumtor mine, one of the largest in Central Asia, is one of two
producing mines owned by Centerra with output estimated to
almost double this year to as much as 600,000 ounces, according
to the company’s website.  The proposed transaction would result in all Kyrgyz state
agency environmental claims being resolved, Centerra said. The
board of the joint venture company would be composed of an equal
number of Centerra and Kyrgyzaltyn representatives and major
decisions would be subject to discussion and approval by the
board.  Centerra and then-majority shareholder  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  agreed
in 2009 to give the Kyrgyz government an increased share in
Centerra as part of a settlement to end legal disputes
threatening Kumtor. The agreement resolved back-tax obligations,
set a new tax rate and settled a clash over the size of the
project’s exploration and development concessions, Centerra said
at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  