-- CFTC Seeks Comment on Potential High-Speed Trading Curbs
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-09T18:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/cftc-seeks-comment-on-potential-high-speed-trading-restrictions.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is seeking comment on whether to require registration
for automated trading firms, taking a first step in potential
restrictions on high-speed and algorithmic derivatives trading.  CFTC members voted unanimously to issue a  concept release 
requesting input on more than 100 questions, including whether
to expand testing and supervision of high-speed trading
strategies. Today’s release, a step prior to a formal proposal
by the top U.S. derivatives regulator, also considers ways to
limit the maximum number of trading orders a firm can place in a
given amount of time.  “Traditional risk controls and system safeguards, many of
which were developed according to human speed and floor-based
trading, must be evaluated in light of new market realities,”
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement.  Gensler’s agency, along with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, boosted scrutiny of high-frequency and algorithmic
trading after May 6, 2010, when $862 billion in equity value was
erased in 20 minutes before share prices recovered. The CFTC
concept release was debated for more than a year.  More recent computer malfunctions, including a software
error that halted Nasdaq Stock Market trading in thousands of
stocks and options for three hours on Aug. 22, have raised
questions about the reliability of electronic markets.  Vulnerable Industry  About 92 percent of exchange-trading volume in U.S. futures
markets was executed electronically last year, according to the
CFTC’s document. The industry is vulnerable to flawed algorithms
and insufficient testing, according to the agency, which noted
that  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, fined a firm for inadequately supervising and testing
controls.  The CFTC should ensure regulations that promote stability
and limit systemic risks, according to the Futures Industry
Association’s principal traders group.  “These goals are consistent with fostering competition and
enhancing transparency, which lowers costs for hedgers and
investors,” according to a statement from the group, which
includes Infinium Capital Management LLC, DRW Holdings LLC and
RGM Advisors LLC, among more than two dozen firms.  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner, said in a
statement that the input is necessary to understand protections
already in place and whether any additional steps are needed.  The CFTC has scheduled a Sept. 12 advisory committee
meeting that will discuss, in part, the agency’s release.  “In general, those involved in financial markets seem to
have blindly accepted that technology is almost always a good
thing,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic CFTC commissioner, said in a
statement. “But it doesn’t work well enough if we continue to
see aberrations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  