-- Chevron Won’t Seek Money From Ecuadorians in U.S. Lawsuit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-10T00:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/chevron-waives-some-claims-in-ecuador-pollution-case.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it won’t seek
money damages against two Ecuadorians it sued in a  New York 
racketeering case claiming the pair committed fraud to win a $19
billion verdict in a pollution case in their country.  The  oil company  also asked that the trial, set to begin
next month in federal court in  Manhattan , be held in two parts,
one before a jury and a second before a judge.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, was ordered
to pay as much as $19 billion in compensatory and punitive
damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling
wastes in the Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The
ruling came in an 18-year-old case decided by a judge in  Lago
Agrio , a provincial capital near the Colombian border.  The company sued in federal court in New York in 2011
accusing Ecuadorians who were named plaintiffs in the case and
their lead legal adviser, Steven Donziger, of improperly
influencing a court expert in the case in Lago Agrio and
committing fraud to win the judgment. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York, who is presiding over the case, scheduled an
Oct. 15 trial.  The  San Ramon , California-based oil company said it won’t
seek money damages against the two Ecuadorians, and that a jury
should determine liability claims against Donziger and his  law
firm .  ‘Extensive Evidence’  “Chevron has uncovered extensive evidence that the 2011
Ecuadorian judgment was fraudulently obtained by the Lago Agrio
plaintiffs,” Morgan Crinklaw, a company representative, said in
an e-mail. “However, their international campaign to
enforcement that judgment has not gained much traction to date.
The equitable relief Chevron continues to seek against the
Lago Agrio plaintiffs will enable us to protect our assets, and
those of our subsidiaries, from being seized by the Lago Agrio
plaintiffs or in their name.”  Kaplan today rejected a request by Donziger and two of the
individual plaintiffs in the Ecuadorean suit to delay the trial
pending a decision by the Manhattan-based  U.S. Court of Appeals .  Oral arguments are to be heard Sept. 26 on Donziger and the
Ecuadorians’ request that the court remove Kaplan from the case
and cancel several orders he issued.  Kaplan said that Donziger had failed to request a delay
pending the appeals court’s decision soon enough.  “The motion to delay the trial is without merit,
represents a radical change in defendants’ nominal position
(though it is entirely consistent with a years-old strategy of
delay wherever possible), and comes far too late,” he said.
“Notwithstanding their attempts to portray themselves as
Davids, each alone facing Goliath, the reality is quite
different.”  Chevron asked that a jury determine what, if any,
compensatory and punitive monetary damages should be paid by
Donziger and asked Kaplan to determine what other remedies
should be imposed.  Phase Two  The company asked the judge to decide in a second phase of
the trial whether the Ecuadorians and Donziger should be barred
from further harming Chevron and to issue an order that protects
its assets.  The company also requested that the Lago Agrio plaintiffs
be prohibited from making what it called prejudicial statements
about “alleged environmental issues in  Ecuador .”  Chevron denies there was company wrongdoing in the Lago
Agrio lawsuit, saying Texaco cleaned up its share of the
pollution at its former  oil fields , which were taken over by
PetroEcuador, Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron said it
was released from any future liability by an agreement between
Texaco and Ecuador. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The case in Ecuador is Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior
Court of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 