-- China Money Rate Gains Most in Two Weeks on Debt Rollover Bet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T07:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/china-money-rate-gains-most-in-two-weeks-on-debt-rollover-bet.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed the most in almost two weeks amid speculation the
central bank will roll over some three-year debt maturing today.  The People’s Bank of China asked lenders to submit orders
for seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements and 28-day
repurchase contracts, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority rolled
over some maturing three-year notes on Aug. 12 and Aug. 26.  “The market speculation is that the central bank will
again roll over some of the maturing three-year notes this
week,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co.
in Shanghai. “In the meantime, commercial banks are cautious in
lending out as they prepare for the upcoming holidays and
quarter-end cash demand.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, rose nine basis points to 3.56 percent as of
3:49 p.m. in  Shanghai , a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center showed. The rate advanced as
much as 13 basis points, the most since Aug. 27, to 3.60 percent
earlier.  The cost of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, added three basis
point, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.12 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  China’s export growth picked up by a more-than-estimated
7.2 percent in August, data from the customs department showed
yesterday. Consumer prices accelerated 2.6 percent in August,
staying below the government’s target of 3.5 percent.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 was unchanged at 4.08 percent, according to prices from the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  