-- China Needs Beijing to Be Even Bigger
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/china-needs-beijing-to-be-even-bigger.html
One of the most critical and
controversial economic debates in China today revolves around
how the country  should urbanize . Already, more Chinese live in
cities than on the land, a proportion that is expected to rise
to 70 percent by 2030.  Proponents of further urbanization are hoping that Premier
 Li Keqiang  will announce reforms this fall that will make it
easier for migrants to move to cities and receive the same
rights as locals. This, they believe, will unlock the
productivity gains needed to sustain growth over the coming
decades. They’re right about the need for more city dwellers --
but not about the need for more cities.  Like many things in China, urbanization policy is driven by
the central government, which has sought to discourage growth of
the largest cities and instead promote smaller, often entirely
new ones. On the surface, this makes sense: If Beijing and
Shanghai -- which already host a combined  43 million  people --
were to grow even bigger, they could sink under the weight of
social and environmental decay, not to mention wasted
expenditures.  China  is already in a class by itself in accounting for 30
of the 50 largest cities in east  Asia . It boasts half a dozen
megacities with populations of more than 10 million and 25
“large” cities exceeding 4 million. In fact, though, the only
way China will achieve its desired productivity gains is if its
leaders allow cities to evolve more organically in response to
market forces. They need to let cities like Beijing get bigger.  Agglomeration Benefits  The pressure for cities to grow comes from the combination
of rural poverty -- which pushes migrants to seek out better-paying jobs -- and the power of “ agglomeration economies .”
These are the benefits gained by the concentration of companies
and workers. The resulting economies of scale and network
effects drive down costs and lead to specialization.  Yet China’s planners continue to see urbanization in terms
of developing new cities and facilitating the flow of people
into the  smaller ones . Incentives for this to happen are
reinforced by limited local-level financing options. Provincial
governments have relied on the conversion of rural land to urban
use to fund their obligations. They have strong incentives to
encourage property appreciation and industrialization to
strengthen their revenue base. At its worst, this has led to the
creation of scores of “ghost” cities based on the mistaken
view that once built, residents will naturally come.  Even in megacities like  Beijing  and Shanghai, incorporating
suburban land is more appealing than making rational use of the
core, which is replete with dilapidated low-rise buildings from
the pre-reform era. As a result, urbanization has ended up
dispersing people and activities rather than increasing density.
Over the past several decades, China’s urban population has
expanded by 2.5 times, but urban land area has increased
eightfold.  Instead of actively trying to spread out growth to small
new cities, China’s planners should embrace the agglomeration
economies, which militate for larger metropolises. As land and
wage costs escalate, some industries will eventually  gravitate 
to medium-size cities, but services will continue to drive
expansion in the larger ones. Smart people like to mix with
other smart people, and globalization has amplified their
financial returns. Beijing and  Shanghai  have continued to grow
because of buoyant higher-value services, even as their
manufacturing bases have shrunk. All this explains why in China,
productivity in urban areas is more than three times that in
rural areas.  But aren’t China’s megacities already too big to be
sustainable? As a matter of fact, some urban specialists have
concluded that even China’s biggest cities may be too small.
They cite “ Zipf’s law ,” one of the great curiosities of urban
research. The law, which is surprisingly accurate for many
countries, claims that the biggest city in a country should be
about twice the size of the second-biggest, three times the size
of the third-biggest, and so forth. On this basis, China’s
largest cities appear too small.  Mushrooming Cities  Certainly, there are negative consequences as cities
mushroom in size. For companies, the rising costs of land and
labor reduce the advantages of big cities; for workers,
congestion and higher living expenses reduce their appeal. If
Beijing handles its urbanization the wrong way, its citizens
will join other Asian countries whose largest cities are caught
in a net of  pollution , clogged streets and underemployed poor.  These risks, however, have less to do with city size than
with misguided urban-management policies. Beijing’s core, for
example, is not being appropriately developed: Vast parcels of
land sit underutilized, while affordable housing is pushed too
far out from where the jobs are. A fascination with ring roads
impedes traffic flow. The result is  excessively long  commutes
with more traffic-related pollution than is necessary and a
costlier provision of social services because of the higher
capital costs of serving a dispersed population. These are all
costs that could be avoided by taking a more rational, density-oriented approach to urban planning.  What China needs Li to implement this fall is a more
efficient urbanization process -- one in which cities are
allowed to evolve organically in response to changing
conditions. This will require a financing system that provides
the right incentives; social services and  residency policies 
that facilitate rather than restrict labor mobility; land-use
guidelines that promote more concentrated rather than dispersed
development; and transport systems that encourage a more
efficient location of activity.  This would probably lead to larger and denser but more
environmentally friendly and livable cities. If China gets it
right, its biggest cities will then generate the productivity
gains needed for the economy to grow at 7 percent or more for
the rest of this decade.  (Yukon Huang is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment and a former World Bank country director for China.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@carnegieendowment.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 