-- China Banks Rally on Report of Preferred Shares: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T05:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/china-banks-rally-on-report-of-preferred-shares-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese banks rallied after a
newspaper reported that the securities regulator may allow some
lenders to sell the country’s first preferred shares, giving
them a new way to meet long-term fundraising requirements.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000)  surged by its  daily
limit  of 10 percent to 10.53 yuan at 1:06 p.m. in Shanghai.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, rose as much as 9.7 percent, heading for
its biggest gain since the shares started trading in 2010. Bank
of Communications Co. climbed 10 percent.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission has held
meetings with banks on allowing them to sell preferred shares,
with Pudong Bank and Agricultural Bank likely to be the first to
do so, Money Week reported. Chinese banks have this year
announced plans to raise as much as 327 billion yuan ($53
billion) as capital rules tighten.  “Selling preferred shares will enable banks to have a
continuous supply of capital without adding pressure on equity
investors,” said Rainy  Yuan , a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  “Banks are the best candidates to
be the pilots, because of their stable earnings ability.”  The securities, which often lack voting rights, can provide
a new financing tool for blue-chip companies that have a high
debt ratio and seek to improve their ownership structure, the
regulator said in a July 12 press briefing.  Profit Distribution  The CSRC is drafting rules on preferred shares and will
publish them as soon as possible, it said. Owners of preferred
shares have priority over common equity shareholders in
receiving the company’s profits and remaining assets, according
to the CSRC.  The CSRC didn’t immediately respond to a fax seeking
comment today. Phone calls to Agricultural Bank and Pudong Bank
weren’t answered.  Under capital rules that took effect in  China  on Jan. 1,
lenders that aren’t classified as systemically important must
have a minimum core Tier 1 ratio of 5.5 percent, a Tier 1 ratio
of 6.5 percent and a total ratio of 8.5 percent by the end of
2013. Those levels will rise by 0.4 percentage point a year for
the following five years.  Banks’ current fundraising plans center on instruments
allowed under the new rules -- mostly bonds that are
automatically written down if the issuer’s capital drops below a
certain level. Agricultural Bank said earlier it plans to sell
50 billion yuan of Tier 2 debt and raise another 40 billion yuan
to boost Tier 1 capital.  Preferred shares will be qualified as Tier 1 capital,
Masterlink’s Yuan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  