-- China’s Web Users May Face Jail Time for Posts That Defame
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-10T10:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/chinese-who-post-defamation-online-face-three-years-of-jail-time.html
China  said authorities could jail
web users for as much as three years if they post comments
deemed defamatory, in a legal interpretation that defines
punishments for people who violate government Internet controls.  People face imprisonment if the defamatory rumors they post
online are read by more than 5,000 people, reposted more than
500 times or cause the subjects to hurt themselves, commit
suicide or “experience mental disorders,” the official Xinhua
News Agency  reported . Xinhua cited an interpretation released
yesterday by the Supreme People’s Court and the Supreme People’s
Procuratorate.  China’s Communist Party has sought to exert its control
over the Internet as microblogs and smartphones make information
harder to censor and activists use the web to accuse officials
of corruption. Authorities have required real names be used to
sign up for Internet connections, called on web companies to
create a “healthy” online environment and pushed state-owned
media to expand their online services.  “With the backing of the law, this Internet crackdown
campaign will no longer be a tiger without teeth,” Zhao Jing,
an activist in Beijing for Internet Freedom in China, said in an
interview. “For a long time the Internet was a place to expose
corruption. Now the local government can use this defamation law
as a tool to crack down on such activities.”  Expose Graft  Social media sites including  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s microblogging
Weibo service have become platforms used by Chinese citizens to
expose corruption and wrongdoing in a country where all domestic
newspapers, television and radio stations are state-owned. The
largest service providers on China’s Internet aren’t under
government ownership.  China, home to more than 591 million Web users by the end
of June, censors the Internet by blocking access to websites
with pornography, gambling and content critical of the Communist
Party’s rule.  China’s Internet is “not a space outside the law,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today in
response to a question about the legal interpretation. “The
actions taken by the Chinese government on the Internet have
been highly supported by the Chinese Internet users.”  Planning Agency  A vice chairman of China’s economic planning agency was
fired in May after a Chinese journalist posted allegations of
improper business dealings on his microblog. Another official,
Yang Dacai, was sentenced to 14 years in prison for graft this
month after Internet users spotted pictures of him wearing
expensive watches and began investigating him through crowd-sourcing efforts.  Liu Qi, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sina, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail and text message asking what
actions the site was taking to respond to the judicial
interpretation. Sina and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  were among the Chinese
Internet companies that jointly created a website in August for
refuting rumors.  China has sought to tighten control of information spread
through microblog services and social media through a series of
crackdowns. In March 2012, the comment functions on Sina and
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s microblog services were halted for 72
hours after authorities detained six people for spreading rumors
of a coup attempt in Beijing.  Think Twice  The legal interpretation released yesterday “will make
people think twice, especially people with lots of followers,
before going public with sloppily sourced news,” said Doug
Young, author of the book “The Party Line: How the Media
Dictates Public Opinion in Modern China.  The eastern province of Zhejiang investigated 118 people
who spread online rumors and false information, the provincial
police said in a web statement in August.  The Beijing police detained a journalist surnamed Liu who
allegedly created and spread rumors, according to the official
police account on Sina Weibo.  Xinhua reported yesterday that those charged with
‘‘defamation’’ also could be deprived of their political rights.  ‘‘Authorities in the future could selectively use this as a
tool to punish people,’’ said Pu Zhiqiang, a civil rights
lawyers in Beijing specializing in libel cases and press
freedom. ‘‘But this can’t last long, say if you do arrest all
the people spreading rumors, would you have a big enough jail to
hold up all of them?’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  