-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Nine Months as Banks Spearhead Rally
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-09T07:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-exports-exceed-forecasts.html
China’s stocks  rose the most since
December, led by financial companies, as investors speculated
banks will be allowed to issue preferred shares to boost capital
and data showed  exports  grew more than estimated.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  jumped 10 percent while an
index of financial companies surged 6.7 percent, the biggest
gain among industry groups.  Shanghai  Pudong and Agricultural
Bank of  China  Ltd. may participate in a trial allowing lenders
to raise funds through preferred shares, Moneyweek reported.
Cosco Shipping Co. and Shanghai International Port Group Co.
soared more than 9 percent on prospects the Shanghai free-trade
zone will help the city become a global trade and shipping hub.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 3.4 percent to 2,212.52
at the close, the biggest gain since Dec. 14. The prospect of
preferred share sales has eased concern that capital shortfalls
at Chinese banks will curb lending and weaken the banking
system, according to David Poh, the regional head of portfolio-management solutions at Societe Generale SA’s private bank.
Exports climbed 7.2 percent last month, compared with the 5.5
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “When the company takes back money by issuing shares, the
health of the balance sheet of these banks becomes stronger,”
Poh said. The prospect of preference shares makes banking stocks
look more attractive as investments, he said.  Banks Rally  The CSI 300 Index advanced 3.5 percent to 2,440.61, while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.5 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added 0.7 percent in  New York .
Trading volumes on the Shanghai index were 93 percent higher
than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Shanghai index has risen 13 percent since reaching this
year’s low on June 27, as reports ranging from industrial
production to  money supply  signaled the economy is stabilizing.
China’s official manufacturing gauge jumped to a 16-month high
in August, while a measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed the largest gain since 2010.  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 surged 6.7
percent, the biggest gain since June 11. Shanghai Pudong jumped
by the daily limit to 10.53  yuan . Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. rose 10 percent to 2.72 yuan. Industrial Bank Ltd. advanced
10 percent to 12.55 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  added
5.4 percent to 4.53 yuan.  Trade Data  “When the overall capital of the bank rises, it means the
probability of going default is lower,” said Poh. “Everyone is
so afraid they don’t have enough capital.”  Default risk is rising in the world’s second-largest
economy. Bad loans at China’s lenders have climbed for seven
straight quarters, the longest streak in at least nine years.  Ping An Bank Co. gained 10 percent to 12.13 yuan. The
lender is selling about 1.32 billion shares at 11.17 yuan each
to Ping An Insurance Group Co. in a private placement. The
subscription price is about 1.3 percent higher than Ping An
Bank’s Sept. 5 closing price. The sale adds to a round of
fundraising by Chinese lenders, which have announced equity and
bond sales this year seeking as much as 327 billion yuan as
capital rules tighten.  China’s  imports  rose a less-than-estimated 7 percent from a
year earlier, leaving a trade surplus of more than $28 billion,
the General Administration of Customs said in Beijing yesterday.
Exports to the U.S., China’s biggest market, and the EU, its
second-largest, rose for a second month in August after a four-month drop, yesterday’s data showed.  Subdued Inflation  Inflation stayed subdued in August, while the decline in
factory-gate prices eased, National Bureau of Statistics data
released today in Beijing showed.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.6 percent from a year
earlier, the bureau said. That matches the 2.6 percent median
estimate of 46 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Producer prices
fell 1.6 percent from a year earlier. The median projection of
40 analysts was for a decline of 1.7 percent.  “Investors are getting more confident about the economic
data,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi Securities Co. in
Chengdu. “Stocks will be steadily rising for the rest of the
year.”  The economy will maintain sustained, healthy growth,
Premier  Li Keqiang  wrote in a commentary published in the
Financial Times. The country will stay on the path of reform and
it cannot afford to continue with the old model of high
consumption and high investment, according to the report.  August  industrial output , retail sales and January-August
fixed-asset investment will be released tomorrow that will give
a clearer picture of the extent of an economic rebound that
started in July. The People’s Bank of China will also give
lending, money supply and aggregate financing numbers this week.  PetroChina Rises  The Shanghai index is  valued  at 8.9 times its projected 12-month earnings, the highest since June 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure rallied 2 percent last week
as airlines, banks and shipping companies gained on speculation
Shanghai’s free-trade zone will lure more business into the
nation’s commercial hub. The trade zone will move Shanghai
closer to becoming a global financial, trade and shipping hub,
Barclays Plc economists  Jian Chang  and Joey Chew wrote in a
report dated Sept. 6.  Cosco Shipping, a unit of China’s biggest shipping group,
climbed 9.9 percent to 3.98 yuan. Shanghai International Port
(Group) Co. soared 10 percent to 6.62 yuan.  PetroChina Co., the biggest  oil company , gained 2 percent
to 8.05 yuan in Shanghai and 0.5 percent in  Hong Kong .  China Business News reported today that five executives
including managers from PetroChina and its parent China National
Petroleum Corp. had been summoned by the authorities. They
included Sun Longde, a PetroChina vice president who had
replaced another official under investigation, and Wang
Guoliang, CNPC’s chief financial officer. The report about
PetroChina is “inconsistent with the truth” and Sun and Wang
are handling their responsibilities as usual, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  