-- China Inflation Stays Subdued as Producer-Price Drop Eases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T01:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/china-inflation-stays-subdued-as-producer-price-deflation-eases.html
China ’s  consumer inflation  stayed
below target for an eighth month while factory-gate prices fell
by the least in six months, reflecting an economic pickup that
leaves room for officials to add stimulus if needed.  The consumer-price index rose 2.6 percent, the National
Bureau of Statistics said in a statement today in Beijing,
matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
producer-price index dropped 1.6 percent in August, the 18th
straight decline, after July’s 2.3 percent decrease.  Subdued consumer inflation gives Premier Li Keqiang more
room to support growth should this quarter’s rebound, signaled
by faster gains in exports and industrial production, prove
temporary. China’s leaders have indicated they will defend this
year’s 7.5 percent expansion target without seeking to return to
the pace of previous years.  “China’s consumer inflation will be fairly stable in the
coming months, and it won’t become a major issue for policy
makers,”  Steve Wang , Hong Kong-based chief China economist with
Reorient Financial Markets Ltd., said before the release.
“China’s PPI may return to positive territory by the end of
this year thanks to improving demand in various industries from
steel to shipping.”  Estimates for consumer inflation from 46 analysts ranged
from 2.4 percent to 3 percent. The median projection for the PPI
was for a 1.7 percent drop, with forecasts ranging from declines
of 1.4 percent to 2.1 percent.  Stocks Rise  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.1 percent at 9:43 a.m.
local time following two straight weekly gains of 2 percent.  Customs data yesterday showed exports rose a more-than-estimated 7.2 percent in August while imports trailed forecasts
with a gain of 7 percent. The statistics bureau is scheduled to
publish data tomorrow on industrial production, which may have
risen 9.9 percent in August, the most this year outside of
months distorted by the Chinese New Year holiday. The  People’s
Bank of China  is due to report figures on credit and money
supply by Sept. 15.  While  emerging markets  from  India  to  Indonesia  are
suffering from capital flight and growth slowdowns, China’s
official manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index jumped to a
16-month high in August and a separate PMI released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the largest gain since
2010.  Inflation Goal  Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng said last week that consumer
prices will maintain stable growth and the nation will meet its
2013 inflation goal, according to comments posted on the
ministry’s website. Policy makers are seeking to keep the
consumer inflation rate within about 3.5 percent this year.  Downward pressure on China’s growth will remain heavy in
the coming months, Zhang Junkuo, a deputy head of the
Development Research Center under the State Council, said Sept.
5 at a forum in Beijing.  The fastest Chinese steel output on record is still too
slow to meet demand from builders, reducing inventories and
driving prices toward a  bull market . Production of steel
reinforcement bars rose 14 percent in the first seven months and
stockpiles slumped 35 percent from an all-time high, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. (000709) , China’s biggest producer, may
double profit per share this year, according to the average of
four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  