-- Clear Channel’s Accord Over Investor Claims Is Approved
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-09T16:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/clear-channel-s-accord-over-investor-claims-is-approved.html
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO) 
won approval of a settlement calling for the provider of
outdoor-advertising displays to pay a $200 million dividend to
resolve a shareholder lawsuit over cash transfers to its former
parent company.  San Antonio , Texas-based Clear Channel Outdoor provided a
“substantial benefit” to investors by agreeing to pay the
dividend to end litigation over loan agreements with Clear
Channel Communications Inc., Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine said today at a hearing in Wilmington. Clear Channel
Outdoor was spun off from the radio broadcaster in 2005.  The dividend, which amounts to more than 63 cents per
share, “is not a trifle,” Strine said. Public investors stand
to get about $22 million of the dividend with the rest going to
Clear Channel Communications, the judge said. The broadcaster
owns 89 percent of the billboard provider.  A Florida pension fund sued the outdoor-advertising
provider last year accusing directors of improperly refusing to
renege on agreements requiring them to transfer more than $600
million in cash to Clear Channel Communications. That company is
owned by private-equity funds Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP.  Reserves Depleted  The transfers had so depleted Clear Channel Outdoor’s cash
reserves that it had to borrow $2 billion to fund a special
dividend, the fund’s lawyers alleged in the case.  The Florida pension fund also alleged the cash-transfer
amounts to a sweetheart deal and forces the unit and public
shareholders to become “an involuntary source of capital” for
the private-equity funds that own its former parent.  Strine also approved $6 million in fees for the fund’s
lawyers. Those fees will be paid by Clear Channel Communications
in addition to the settlement,  Stuart Grant , one of the fund’s
attorneys, told Strine today.  The case is the City of Pinellas Park Firefighters Pension
Board v. Covell, 7315, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  