-- Clifford Chance, Simpson Thacher, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/clifford-chance-simpson-thacher-sidley-business-of-law.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the biggest
operator of cellular towers in the U.S., agreed to acquire the
parent company of rival Global Tower Partners for about $3.3
billion, giving it thousands of additional wireless sites as the
appetite for next-generation services grows.  American Tower’s legal advisers were Clifford Chance US LLP
and Sullivan & Worcester LLP. Global Tower Partners was advised
by Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  Clifford Chance  New York  partner John Graham acted on this
deal. Sullivan & Worcester’s team included partners Ameek Ponda
and  David Kaplan . The Simpson Thacher deal team was led by David Lieberman and Brian Chisling, mergers and acquisitions;  John Hart , tax; and David Rubinsky, executive compensation and
employee benefits.  American Tower is buying MIP Tower Holdings LLC, a closely
held real estate investment trust that owns Global Tower
Partners and related companies, according to a statement Sept.
6. The deal brings American Tower about 5,400 U.S. towers and
the management rights to more than 9,000 additional sites.
Including debt, the purchase price is about $4.8 billion.  The tower industry is consolidating, with fewer companies
controlling bigger swaths of equipment amid booming demand for
mobile communications and the gear needed to transmit signals.
Low  interest rates  also may be spurring American Tower to make
deals, said James Moorman, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ Inc.  This is the second major acquisition in the past two months
by American Tower. Last month, the Boston-based company agreed
to buy almost 4,500 wireless sites from  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  in
Brazil and Mexico for $811 million.  American Tower’s acquisition, slated to be completed in the
fourth quarter, will generate about $345 million in revenue and
$270 million in gross profit next year, the company said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Clifford Chance Hires BLP Tax Head, Liesl Fichardt  Clifford Chance  LLP hired Liesl Fichardt, the head of
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP’s contentious tax affairs practice,
to join its  London  tax group.  Fichardt specializes in tax litigation and settlement of
disputes. She has experience both with U.K. and cross-border
disputes, including all areas of international tax involving the
EU Treaty, Double Tax Conventions and the EC Directives in
relation to tax and VAT, the firm said.  “The current tax environment is becoming ever more complex
for large organizations as they face greater amounts of
legislation,” David Harkness, global head of Clifford Chance’s
tax, pensions and employment practice, said in a statement. “We
are seeing increasing demand from clients for advice and help on
resolving their tax disputes, and we expect this is an area that
will continue to grow for the firm’s market leading practice.”  Clifford Chance has over 180 tax advisers across  Europe ,
the U.S. and  Asia . The firm has 35 offices in 25 countries with
about 3,400 legal advisers.  Sedgwick’s Washington Office Adds Natural-Resources Attorneys  Sedgwick LLP said natural resources attorneys Steven P. Quarles and David P. Ross joined the firm’s  land-use  and
natural-resources practice as partners in the firm’s  Washington 
office. Both were previously at Crowell & Moring LLP.  Quarles focuses his practice on federal wildlife law,
public land law and related federal policy matters. He
represents renewable and other energy, forest products, mining,
agricultural and land development associations and companies;
policy coalitions; state and local governments; and land
conservation trusts, the firm said.  He also has an administrative practice that includes
securing policy constructions and changes from federal agencies
in Washington and advising on the permitting of projects
throughout the U.S., the firm said. He was a deputy
undersecretary at the Interior Department and counsel to the
U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.  Ross specializes in regulatory counseling, enforcement
defense, and litigation of environmental and natural resources
matters, with an emphasis on the  Clean Water Act , National
Environmental Policy Act, federal wildlife law, renewable and
other energy projects, federal land use issues, water quality
policy and litigation, and storm water regulation and control,
according to the firm.  “Steve and Dave have extensive knowledge in a complex area
of federal law,” Anna Shimko, the head of Sedgwick’s real
estate, land use and natural resources practices, said in a
statement.  Their contributions will “make our team even
stronger as we collaborate from multiple offices on projects as
diverse as wind farms, resorts, transmission corridors, new
residential communities and endangered species conservation
banks.”  Sedgwick has more than 370 attorneys at 16 U.S. offices.  Pillsbury Builds IP Practice in London With Litigator Duo  James Tumbridge and  Paul Harris  joined Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP’s global sourcing and intellectual property
team in London. They were previously at Gowlings Lafleur
Henderson LLP and are joined by three more members of the team
at their previous firm.  Tumbridge and Harris have a background in IP litigation and
transactions, dispute resolution and government relations, with
a client base that covers many industries and disciplines,
Pillsbury Winthrop said.  “Their extensive experience on contentious IP matters and
their government advisory work adds considerably to Pillsbury’s
existing strengths in IP and global sourcing,” Pillsbury
Chairman James Rishwain Jr. said in a statement.  Tumbridge, who co-founded Gowlings’ London office in 2008,
has practiced in the U.S.,  Canada  and the U.K. and has also
handled alternative dispute resolution work. He has served as an
ad hoc adviser to U.K. ministers, members of parliament and
members of the European parliament on IP and dispute matters.  Harris, with more than 25 years’ experience, successfully
defended Stanley Black & Decker in a patent case and handled the
Wagamama restaurant chain case, the first of its kind to
consider the U.K. Trade Marks Act 1994 and its implementation of
the European Trade Marks Directive, the firm said. He also
handles the sale and licensing of businesses and the global
registration of trademarks and advises on copyright issues for
technology companies.  Pillsbury has lawyers at offices in the U.S., London,  Abu
Dhabi  and Asia.  Jones Day Adds to Banking and Finance Practice in London  Brian Conway is joining  Jones Day  as a partner in the
firm’s London office, where he will be a member of the banking
and finance practice. He was previously a partner in  Latham &
Watkins  LLP’s finance department in London.  “Brian will prove to be significant boost to our finance
capability in London,” said John Phillips, partner-in charge of
Jones Day’s London office. “He is highly experienced in
leveraged acquisition finance, which will be beneficial to our
global clients as they look to execute deals in Europe’s largest
financial hub.”  Conway has almost 20 years of experience acting for banks,
financial institutions and borrowers on domestic and
international cross-border financing transactions. He has
advised on senior, mezzanine and subordinated debt financings.
He also acts on the refinancing of finance transactions and has
experience working with high yield bondholder committees, the
firm said.  Prior to Latham & Watkins, he spent 13 years at White &
Case LLP, where he was a partner in the firm’s bank finance
practice in  Singapore  and helped establish its leveraged finance
practice in Asia.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 40 offices
worldwide.  Sidley Adds International Arbitration Lawyers in New York  Sidley Austin LLP announced that Benno Kimmelman, formerly
at  Allen & Overy LLP, will join its New York office as a
partner along with an additional lawyer. Both will be members of
the firm’s international arbitration practice.  “They have strong experience in international commercial
arbitration, specifically in the energy sector, which fits
nicely with Sidley’s continued growth in this area,” Marc Palay, partner and co-head of Sidley’s international arbitration
practice, said in a statement.  Kimmelman focuses on the arbitration and litigation of
complex commercial, investment-treaty and energy disputes. He
represents U.S. and foreign clients, as well as sovereign
entities, in international disputes before tribunals and state
and federal courts. He’s an adjunct professor at Brooklyn Law
School in New York, where he teaches international commercial
arbitration and international litigation.  Sidley has 1,700 lawyers in 19 offices worldwide.  News  U.K. Crime Agency Won’t Identify Firms in Illegal Sources Probe  The U.K.’s Serious Organised Crime Agency refused to reveal
the names of law firms and insurance companies that may have
hired convicted private investigators who illegally obtained
information.  SOCA declined to publish the list because of the
“detrimental” effect “to ongoing investigations and
enquiries,” following a request from Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee, the national police unit  said  in a statement posted
on its website Sept. 6.  The agency gave the Home Affairs Committee a list of
clients of four private investigators who were jailed last year
for using illegal methods to get information. SOCA asked the
panel not to publish the names to avoid prejudicing future
investigations and because there was no finding the companies
had broken the law.  Committee Chairman Keith Vaz has given SOCA until Sept. 9
to publish the list or lawmakers will release it themselves.  The list included 22 law firms, as well as 10 insurance
companies, an  oil company  and eight companies in financial
services, SOCA said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  