-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increased Less Than Forecast in July
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-09-09T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-less-than-forecast-in-july.html
Consumer borrowing in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in July as credit-card use fell for a second
month even as Americans took out more loans for car purchases.  The $10.4 billion increase in  credit  followed a revised
$11.9 billion advance in June that was less than initially
reported, the  Federal Reserve  reported today in Washington. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a $12.7 billion
gain in July. Non-revolving financing, including auto and school
loans, rose.  Gains in  home prices  and stock values have helped boost
household wealth, giving some consumers the confidence to borrow
for big-ticket purchases such as automobiles. At the same time,
limited employment and wage growth may prompt Americans to cut
back on their use of credit cards.  “There’s a continued solid pace of auto sales driving
 consumer credit  expansion,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
before the report. “Card borrowing is, at best, stagnant.”  Estimates of the 27 economists surveyed ranged from
increases of $9 billion to $18 billion after a previously
reported $13.8 billion gain a month earlier. The report doesn’t
track mortgages, home-equity lines of credit and other debt
secured by real estate.  Revolving credit , which includes credit-card spending, fell
$1.8 billion after a $3.7 billion drop a month earlier, marking
the first back-to-back decrease in a year.  Non-revolving debt, which includes loans for college
tuition and car purchases, increased $12.3 billion after a $15.6
billion gain in June.  School Lending  Federal government lending to consumers, comprised mainly
of  student loans , rose by $2.5 billion before adjusting for
seasonal variations.  Demand for vehicles is a source of strength for the
economy, helping drive gains in non-revolving credit. Cars and
light trucks sold last month at 16 million annualized rate, the
fastest since November 2007, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group. Sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “The housing sector recovery is healthy and broad-based
now across the country,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist
at Ford, said on an Aug. 1 sales call. “Manufacturing orders
and shipments are now expanding at a faster rate. This bodes
well for second-half improvements in the economy.”  A recovery in the housing market, combined with stock-market gains, is allowing Americans to repair balance sheets and
providing a boost to  consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the economy.  Credit Availability  At the same time, many people still don’t have access to
credit or affordable banking services, said  Dan Schulman , group
president of enterprise growth at  American Express Co. (AXP)  in New
York. The credit company is exploring ways to reach those
consumers.  “The bottom line is this: The current financial system is
failing to meet the needs of millions upon millions of people,”
Schulman said on an Aug. 8 call with analysts. “Forty-five
percent of middle-class households earning between $50,000 and
$150,000 per year spend all or more of their monthly earnings
each month. Many don’t have access to credit. Others simply
don’t have a bank branch in their neighborhood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  