-- Corporate Debt Costs Decline Before Verizon Meets Bond Investors
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-09T15:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/corporate-debt-costs-decline-before-verizon-meets-bond-investors.html
Corporate borrowing costs dropped
from the highest in almost a year in  Europe  and credit risk fell
in the U.S. before  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  meets investors
to arrange what may be the biggest bond sale in history.  The average yield on  investment-grade  notes in euros
declined to 2.12 percent from an 11-month high of 2.19 percent
reached Sept. 5, Bloomberg index data show. The cost of insuring
against losses on company debt dropped to a two-week low, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade index falling two
basis points to 80 basis points at 10:29 a.m. in  New York .  “The deal is huge,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, the London-based head of credit research at  Threadneedle Asset Management
Ltd . “The market expects the company will issue at least $25
billion initially, including up to $10 billion equivalent in
euros and pounds.”  Verizon is due to begin meeting investors in the U.S. today
and in Europe on Sept. 12 as the New York-based carrier seeks to
raise as much as $50 billion to buy a stake in its wireless unit
from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , according to a person with knowledge of
the matter. That would exceed Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion
issue in April, while a deal in euros or pounds would be
Verizon’s first in Europe.  Proceeds from the sale will fund the $130 billion stake in
 Verizon Wireless , giving the company full control of the most
profitable U.S. mobile-phone carrier in the biggest buyout in
more than a decade.  Verizon Bonds  Verizon’s $1.75 billion of 2.45 percent notes due November
2022 rose 0.2 cent on the dollar to 85.3 cents, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, pushing the yield on the securities to
4.42 percent. The price of credit-default swaps on the debt fell
as much as six basis points to 86 basis points after jumping to
the highest in at least four years on Sept. 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In credit markets today,  Russia  is selling its first
international bonds since March 2012. The government is debuting
seven-year securities in euros and marketing three portions of
dollar-denominated notes, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak about it.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co., the
world’s biggest maker of  jet engines , sold 550 million pounds
($864 million) of 10-year bonds yielding 150 basis points more
than U.K. government debt through its GE Capital U.K. Funding
unit.  Australia Pacific Airports Melbourne Pty Ltd., the owner
and operator of Melbourne Airport, is meeting investors in
Europe starting Sept. 12 for a potential bond sale that would be
its first in the region. Apetra NV, a manager of  Belgium ’s oil
stocks, is also meeting bond investors in Europe starting
Thursday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  