-- Corrections Corp. Wins as Brown Buys California Prison Fix
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-09T20:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/corrections-corp-wins-as-jerry-brown-buys-california-prison-fix.html
Corrections Corp. of America , the
largest U.S. prison company, and  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  stand to gain in
California Governor Jerry Brown’s plan to rent thousands of
their cells as part of a $1 billion effort to meet a federal
court deadline to reduce prison overcrowding.  Brown seeks to spend $315 million in the year that ends
June 30 and an estimated $415 million annually for two more
years to remove 12,500 inmates from state penitentiaries. The
plan calls for leasing a  Corrections Corp. (CXW)   prison  in the Mojave
Desert, shipping more inmates to private lockups out of state,
and renting beds at public and private jails in California.  The proposal is an about-face by Brown, who sent
Corrections Corp. shares tumbling 8.9 percent in one day in
April 2012 when he said he planned to reclaim almost 10,000
inmates held by the company in  Arizona ,  Mississippi  and
 Oklahoma . California is Corrections Corp.’s biggest state
customer and accounted for 12 percent of revenue, or $214.8
million, in 2012, according to  corporate filings .  The state’s business “was a negative for the stock because
people were discounting whether they can count on the revenue
and earnings from that particular customer,” said  Tobey Sommer ,
an analyst for SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in Nashville,
 Tennessee , who has a buy recommendation on both companies. “So
when you have a reversal of something being a risk to a
potential positive, that can really help.”  Shares Down  Corrections Corp., based in Nashville, rose 1 percent to
$32.65 at the close in New York, the biggest gain since Aug. 23.
The stock is up 7.3 percent in the past year. Geo, based in Boca
Raton,  Florida , climbed 1.6 percent to $31.61, the highest since
Aug. 29. The shares have gained 30.7 percent in the past 12
months.  California faces a Dec. 31 deadline to get its inmate
population down to 137.5 percent of designed capacity. The
system, which operated at 200 percent for more than a decade,
was at 143.8 percent as of Sept. 4, with 123,777 inmates,
according to a Corrections and Rehabilitation Department  report .  Brown met with Senate and Assembly leaders today and agreed
to ask the court for more time to meet the order, the Los
Angeles Times reported. The agreement calls for expanding
mental-health and drug-rehabilitation programs to reduce the
number of former inmates returning to prison, while preparing to
move prisoners into private prisons and other facilities if the
court refuses, the Times said.  Federal judges seized control of the prison health system
in 2006, saying inmate care was so bad it amounted to cruel and
unusual punishment and violated the U.S. Constitution. That led
to the order to reduce inmate numbers.  Court Order  Brown fought the order to the point that the judges
threatened to hold the 75-year-old Democrat in contempt. The
state has lowered the count by 43,000 since 2006 and spent $1
billion on improving care and conditions, he has said. The only
way to reduce the number further is to release dangerous felons,
the governor said.  Last month, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected his plea to
postpone the Dec. 31 deadline, prompting Brown to seek funding
from the legislature to temporarily lease prison spaces.  Under Brown’s plan,  California  would put 1,000 inmates,
with state guards, in Corrections Corp.’s 2,300-bed prison in
the Mojave Desert. The company currently rents some of the space
to the U.S. Marshals Service and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.  California would shelve plans to bring back about 4,000 of
the almost 9,000 inmates held in out-of-state Corrections Corp.
prisons and instead ship out potentially 5,800 more.  The state currently pays Corrections Corp. about $64.50 a
day per inmate. The governor and lawmakers had budgeted just
$120 million in the current year for out-of-state prisoners
because Brown had planned to reclaim almost half. A bill pending
in the legislature would double the appropriation.  ‘Additional Capacity’  “We have additional capacity that could meet their
needs,” Steve Owen, a Correction Corp. spokesman, said by e-mail. “It is our understanding that they are looking at some of
our facilities as well as some not owned by CCA.”  Corrections Corp. owns and runs 49 prisons, manages another
18 and leases two, as of June 30. The federal government
provided almost 43 percent of the company’s $1.76 billion of
revenue in 2012, according to its annual report.  Geo, the second-largest U.S. prison company, has a contract
with California to confine parole violators at a 625-bed
dormitory-style lockup in McFarland, 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of Los Angeles.  In January 2012, the state said it would terminate the
contract. It rescinded that plan three months later, and Brown
later extended the contract through fiscal 2016. Under the
governor’s plan, the state would lease as many as 1,225 beds in
two of Geo’s facilities in California that were shuttered when
the state canceled earlier contracts.  Pablo Paez, a spokesman for Geo, didn’t respond to a
telephone message asking for comment on Brown’s plans.  Share Potential  Sommer, the analyst, said the additional California
spending may add as much as 20 cents a share to each company’s
funds from operations, a measure of cash flow for real-estate
investment trusts. He forecasts $2.52 a share in funds from
operations for Corrections Corp and $2.50 for Geo.  “So 20 cents is material,” he said.  California’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office,
which evaluates fiscal issues for lawmakers, said the cost of
Brown’s plan could be higher than he estimates. Running the
Mojave Desert lockup with the state’s own prison guards would
cost taxpayers twice as much per bed as a typical contract.  The analyst’s office said the state should negotiate to pay
only for beds that are occupied, not for a fixed number that
might not all be occupied.  Not Certain  While Democrats control the legislature, Brown’s plan isn’t
certain to pass. It is opposed by Democrats in the Senate who
put forward an alternative to spend $200 million in grants for
counties to expand rehabilitation, drug and mental-health
treatment programs that they said would reduce recidivism. Their
plan also calls for an advisory commission to look at sentencing
changes.  Lawmakers recess Sept. 13 for the rest of the year, though
legislative leaders could bring them back. Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , hinted that a
compromise is possible.  “We do not reject capacity out of hand, especially the
need for some in-state capacity, as part of a package of
changing the underlying dynamic in this criminal justice
system,” Steinberg said at a hearing last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  