-- Cows on Runways Show Indonesia Growth Challenge: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-10T10:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/cows-on-runways-show-indonesia-growth-challenge-southeast-asia.html
Jakarta’s Soekarno-Hatta airport,
 Southeast Asia ’s busiest, couldn’t offer Lion Group the space it
needed to build a new airplane maintenance facility. Instead,
the company ended up picking a site near Singapore.  With its Lion Air unit poised to overtake  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  as the region’s largest carrier by fleet size, the
Jakarta-based company’s maintenance arm is spending $250 million
to build the facility on Batam, an Indonesian island a short
ferry ride from Singapore. When finished, it will have four
hangars that can handle a total of four  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 aircraft
or 12 single-aisle planes.  “We considered Jakarta,” Romdani Ardali Adang, president
of closely held Lion Group’s maintenance unit, said in an
interview. “But there is no space in Jakarta. There was only
space for one hangar.”  The Indonesian capital’s crowded airport is part of an
infrastructure shortage that is holding back economic expansion
in the world’s fourth-most populous country, where growth is
already slowing amid accelerating inflation and a rising trade
gap. Last month, a Boeing 737-800 plane struck a cow at a
regional airport, underscoring the need for upgrades in a nation
where air travel is expected to double in 10 years.  “More than any other mode of transportation, airlines are
key in connecting all the diverse parts of  Indonesia  and put
them together,” said Shukor Yusof, a Singapore-based aviation
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s . “The importance of the  airline
industry  to Indonesia’s economy is massive.”  Low-Cost Carriers  The emergence of Southeast Asian low-cost carriers such as
Lion Air and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  have helped fuel demand for flying by
making it cheaper.  The two have ordered 764 planes worth $73.8 billion at list
prices since 2011. By the end of this year, Lion Air and state-controlled  PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA)  will surpass Singapore Air as the
region’s biggest carriers by fleet size, the CAPA Centre for
Aviation, which advises airlines, said last week.  AirAsia shares rose 2.8 percent to 2.58 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur trading and Garuda advanced 2 percent to 500 rupiah. Lion
is a closely held airline.  Indonesia has more than 230 airports scattered on more than
17,000 islands that stretch across 5,300 kilometers (3,300
miles).  “We are a huge archipelago,” said Kristanto, a spokesman
for PT Angkasa Pura II, the state-owned operator of Soekarno-Hatta. “Land travel is not an option in most cases,” said
Kristanto, who like many Indonesians uses only one name.  Economic Growth  Demand has surged as economic growth enables more of
Indonesia’s 253 million people to travel by air. Domestic
carriers flew 70 million passengers in 2012, up from 37 million
in 2008, according to CAPA.  Indonesia overtook its former colonial master, the
Netherlands, in 2011 to become the world’s 16th-largest economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If it maintains a
growth rate of about 6 percent, it will leapfrog  Germany  and the
U.K. by 2030 to rank seventh, consulting firm McKinsey & Co.
predicts.  The country’s economic growth has slowed and stocks have
tumbled amid faster inflation and a record current-account
deficit. Still,  air-travel  demand may double in 10 years as only
10 percent to 15 percent of Indonesians have flown on planes,
according to Vice Transport Minister Bambang Susantono.  Most major airfields in the country were operating at
double to triple their capacity in 2011, according to the
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative, a project funded by the
Australian government.  “A lot of the airports have very limited space,” said
Brendan Sobie, chief analyst at CAPA. “They can modernize it a
bit, but they can’t really expand very much.”  Airport Expansion  To accommodate growth, Indonesia’s government is spending
about $53 billion to improve transport infrastructure including
airports, ports and railroads. It’s also looking to invite
companies to develop and operate some airports.  A new airport in Medan, Sumatra’s biggest city, opened July
25 and can handle as many as 9 million passengers a year. The
old airport was handling 8 times its capacity of about 1
million.  Angkasa Pura II is working to develop terminals and
aircraft parking spaces at all eight airports under its
management, said Kristanto, the operator’s spokesman.  Soekarno-Hatta,  Asia ’s busiest airport after  Beijing
Capital (694)  International Airport and  Tokyo ’s Haneda, is boosting
capacity to be able to handle 68 million passengers a year from
57 million currently, Kristanto said. The government is also
considering building a second international airport in the
capital.  Cow Collision  Soekarno-Hatta may quickly reach the expanded capacity.
Last year, the number of passengers using the airport rose 13
percent to 53.7 million, according to the operator’s website.  “Demand is growing way too fast for infrastructure
developments to keep pace,” said K. Ajith, a Singapore-based
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte.  Crowding isn’t the only issue. Garuda, the nation’s flag
carrier, postponed the start of non-stop flights between Jakarta
and  London ’s Gatwick from this year to mid-2014. That’s because
the Jakarta runway doesn’t meet the take-off weight
specifications required for the Boeing 777-300ER at full
capacity.  The nation has also struggled with safety. In 2010, the
country accounted for 1.4 percent of all plane flights and 4
percent of all air accidents, according to the  International Air
Transport Association , known as IATA.  Two people were injured on Aug. 6 when a Lion Air-operated
Boeing 737-800 hit one of three cows on a runway in Gorontalo.
In April, a Lion Air plane carrying 108 people crashed into the
sea off Bali on landing at Ngurah Rai International Airport,
according to the airport’s operator. There were no fatalities.  “Having the right infrastructure to accommodate the growth
will be critical,” said Albert Tjoeng, a spokesman for IATA.
“It is equally important that the software -- pilots, air-traffic controllers, and other human resources -- is developed
to be able to support the aviation growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  