-- CQS’s Former Hedge-Fund Manager Said to Start Own Firm
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-09-09T12:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/cqs-s-former-hedge-fund-manager-said-to-start-own-firm.html
Alistair Lumsden, who stepped down
as head of a $2.3 billion hedge fund focused on asset-backed
securities at CQS U.K. LLP last year, is starting his own firm,
said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Lumsden, 44, plans to start trading at his London-based
East Lodge Capital Partners LLP next year, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the firm is private. The
company will trade European and U.S. credit with a focus on
corporate bonds and structured debt, said the person.  The CQS ABS Fund, which invests in bonds tied to mortgages,
credit-card loans and student debt, gained about 28 percent on
average a year when Lumsden ran it from October 2006 through
November 2012, according to investors. Competing hedge funds
trading  asset-backed securities  rose an annual 9.1 percent in
that period, Hedge Fund Research Inc. data shows.  Andrew Honnor, a spokesman for East Lodge Capital with
Greenbrook Communications, declined to comment on the fund.  Lumsden is seeking to raise $250 million for East Lodge
Capital before the hedge fund starts trading, the person said.
He plans to hire as many as 14 employees focused on trading and
business functions, the person said.  East Lodge Capital was registered on Aug. 27, according to
a filing with the U.K.’s Companies House.  His best year managing the CQS ABS Fund was in 2008 when it
surged 73 percent. Lumsden wagered that banks that loaded up on
securities tied to subprime mortgages would be hurt when credit
markets froze, investors said. Other hedge funds trading asset-backed securities  fell  3.4 percent on average in 2008, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research.  London-based CQS, founded in 1999 by former Credit Suisse
Group AG convertible-bond trader  Michael Hintze , manages about
$12 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  