-- Credit Swaps Fall in U.S.; Tenet to Sell $4.6 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-09T21:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/credit-swaps-fall-in-u-s-tenet-to-sell-4-6-billion-of-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
reached the lowest intraday level in two weeks after signs of
economic strength in  China  and  Japan .  Tenet (THC)  Healthcare Corp.
plans to sell $4.6 billion of notes in two parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.8
basis points to a mid-price of 79 basis points as of 4:13 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
about the lowest intraday level since Aug. 26.  An increase in Chinese exports and faster-than-estimated
growth in Japan bolstered investor confidence that a
strengthening global economy will boost the ability of companies
to repay debt obligations.  “Evidence that the euro area, Chinese and Japanese
economies are gaining momentum is the primary catalyst behind a
renewed appetite for risk in the credit markets,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The measure typically falls as investor
confidence improves and climbs as it deteriorates.  Chinese exports jumped 7.2 percent last month compared with
the previous year, the General Administration of Customs said in
Beijing yesterday.  Neiman Swaps  Japan’s gross domestic product grew an annualized 3.8
percent from the first quarter, higher than an initial estimate
of 2.6 percent, the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo . The
median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was
for a 3.9 percent increase.  Neiman Marcus  Group Inc.’s credit risk is set to rise to
the highest level in a year after the Dallas-based luxury chain
agreed to sell itself to Ares Management LLC and the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board for $6 billion.  Five-year credit swaps tied to the debt of Dallas-based
Neiman Marcus rose 99 basis points to 391 basis points as of
3:37 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s the
highest level since the swaps closed at 392.5 in September 2012.  Tenet Offering  Tenet, the third-biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, may sell $2.8 billion of 8.5-year bonds and $1.8 billion
of seven-year notes this week to help finance the purchase of
 Vanguard Health Systems Inc. (VHS) , according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Tenet agreed to purchase Vanguard in June for about $1.8
billion. The bond sale, which may occur on Sept. 13, is poised
to be the Dallas-based company’s largest on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 16.5 basis points to 382.2, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 1.2 basis points to 132.8
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 3.7 basis points to 601.3.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  