-- Crown Castle Seeks Conversion to a REIT
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-09T21:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/crown-castle-seeks-conversion-to-a-reit.html
Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI) , an
owner of mobile-phone towers, plans to convert to a real estate
investment trust, a move that will probably increase payouts to
shareholders.  Crown Castle expects to begin operating as a REIT starting
Jan. 1, the Houston-based company said today in a statement.
REIT status would provide tax advantages and have “little to no
effect” on operations, Ben Moreland, Crown Castle’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  “A REIT structure will lower our weighted average cost of
capital and provide additional opportunities for creating long-term  shareholder value ,” he said.  REITs are subject to lower taxes and pay higher dividends
than other companies. Crown Castle is seeking the change as the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service scrutinizes the eligibility of
nontraditional real estate operations. Iron Mountain Inc. and
Equinix Inc., two technology companies planning to convert to
REITs, said in June that the IRS was reviewing them and weighing
whether to narrow the legal definition of real estate.  Crown Castle has the precedent of other tower companies
being REITs on its side, including  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , said
Jonathan Schildkraut, an analyst at Evercore Partners.  “I don’t really see an issue,” Schildkraut said.  To qualify as a REIT, a company has to invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.
REITs sell equity and debt to fuel growth, and must return at
least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders in
the form of dividends.  Dividend Timing  Crown Castle owns, operates and leases towers and other
infrastructure for wireless communications in the U.S. and
 Australia . The company doesn’t expect to make any dividend
distributions before its conversion. It will base the timing and
amount of shareholder payouts on investment opportunities around
its core businesses and federal net operating losses of about
$2.7 billion, according to the statement.  Crown Castle rose 2.7 percent to $72.45 at the close of
trading in New York. Crown Castle has  increased  0.4 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 1.5 percent by the S&P 500 Telecom
Services Index.  The REIT proposal is subject to approval by the board of
directors. The law firms Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP are advising Crown Castle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  