-- Crude Falls From Two-Year High on Syria Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-09T19:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/crude-falls-from-two-year-high-on-syria-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from a
two-year high as President  Barack Obama  struggled to convince
Congress of the need for a military strike on  Syria  and  Russia 
urged Syria to give up its stockpile of chemical weapons.  Futures slid 0.9 percent as lawmakers lined up against the
president, reducing concern that the conflict may disrupt
regional oil supply. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
urged Syria take the step to avert a U.S.-led attack. Syrian
Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said his government
“welcomes” the Russian proposal. Brent oil was down more than
twice as much as WTI.  “The delays in agreeing to any action in Syria are sending
Brent lower and WTI is along for the ride,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “The president has a
tough row to hoe. The ramifications of him not getting a yes
vote are pretty big.”  WTI for October delivery dropped $1.01 to settle at $109.52
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices rose to
$110.53 on Sept. 6, the highest close since May 3, 2011. The
volume of all futures traded was 2.6 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:08 p.m. Prices have gained 19 percent this year.  Brent for October settlement declined $2.40, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $113.72 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 51 percent above
the 100-day average. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI
narrowed to $4.20, the least since Aug. 19.  President’s Speech  Obama will make his case for U.S. military intervention in
an address to the nation at 9 p.m. Washington time tomorrow.  The  Senate  is expected to vote on the resolution by the end
of the week. Passage in the  House of Representatives  may be even
tougher, given reservations expressed by lawmakers from both
parties who say their constituents overwhelmingly oppose the
resolution.  Some Republicans wary of U.S. involvement overseas have
said they will vote no, as have some Democrats who warn of the
risk of entering another Middle Eastern country.  “It’s unsure if anything will happen and we are seeing
some pullbacks here,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
Prices are already “at an elevated level.”  Vote Tally  In the 435-seat House, 26 members publicly support military
action and 202 were opposed or leaning against the resolution as
of Sept. 8, with 205 undecided, according to a Bloomberg  tally .
The House currently has two vacancies.  In the 100-member Senate, 22 members favored the measure,
26 were opposed and 52 were undecided, the tally showed.  Lavrov’s statement, made after meeting his Syrian
counterpart in Moscow, followed comments by Secretary of State
 John Kerry  that suggested the U.S. may call off a military
strike if Syria handed over its chemical weapons within a week.  “Even if nothing happens, this kind of proposal should
stall any move toward a military strike,”  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “At best it’s going to be postponed and at worst
it may not happen. It’s bearish for the market.”  Russia, which has been using its  United Nations   Security
Council  veto power to shield Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
from international censure and supplied his regime with weapons,
has pledged to continue helping him if the U.S. launches a
strike in retaliation for a gas attack in a Damascus suburb last
month.  United Nations  “I am considering urging the Security Council to demand
immediate transfer of Syria’s chemical weapons and chemical
precursor stocks to places inside Syria where they can be safely
destroyed,” United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told
reporters today.  Crude rose for a second week in the five days ended Sept. 6
on concern that an escalation of the conflict in Syria may
disrupt regional oil supplies.  “Perhaps the risk of an attack isn’t as big as we had
feared and it’s taking some of the premium off the market,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago .  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders Iraq and is near
Iran, countries that together hold almost a fifth of the output
capacity from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
Bloomberg estimates show.  Libyan Output  Crude also declined as Sliman Qajam, a member of the Libyan
parliament’s energy committee, said the country’s production
rebounded to 600,000 barrels a day. Output was restored at all
 oil fields  shut by protesters, and all export terminals will be
open by middle of next week, Qajam said from Tripoli.  “We are seeing more oil production back out of  Libya  and
that’s also helping weigh on things,” Kilduff said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 26.3 percent, up from 25.6 percent on Sept. 6, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 537,830
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. It totaled 602,870 contracts on Sept.
6, 5.4 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.90 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  