-- Czech August Inflation Slowdown Bolsters Calls for Koruna Sales
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-09-09T08:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/czech-august-inflation-slowdown-bolsters-calls-for-koruna-sales.html
Czech  inflation (CZCPYOY)  unexpectedly slowed
for the second consecutive month in August, slipping further
below the central bank’s target and bolstering the arguments of
board members who want to sell koruna to ease policy.  The Inflation rate slipped to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent
in July, the Czech Statistics Office said in a statement today.
It was below the 1.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
 survey  of 15 analysts and lower than the central bank’s 1.6
percent forecast. Consumer  prices  fell 0.2 percent from the
previous month.  After three  rate cuts  exhausted room for traditional
monetary easing last year, policy makers in  Prague  are debating
whether price growth below their 2 percent target warrants the
first currency interventions since 2002. Rate setters are
assessing the strength of a  rebound  after the economy exited a
year-and-a-half long recession in the second quarter.  “Inflation itself is an argument for further easing
monetary conditions,”Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali PPF
Asset Management AS, said by e-mail today. “But the bunch of
recent data from the Czech economy, for instance GDP, industrial
orders, retail sales and Manufacturing PMI, have provided
arguments for the non-interventionist camp.”  Jac said he didn’t expect the central bank to start koruna
sales at its next policy meeting on Sept. 26.  The  koruna  has depreciated 2.8 percent against the euro
this year and traded 0.1 percent weaker at 25.813 per euro as of
10:30 a.m. in Prague, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The koruna has moved to the center of policy deliberations
because depreciation would make imports more expensive and boost
the competitiveness of exports, curbing deflation risks.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left its  main   interest rate 
unchanged for a sixth meeting on Aug. 1 at what it calls a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent, almost half a point below
the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark.  The Czech central bank’s seven-member board voted at the
last meeting for the first time on whether to start koruna
sales, the bank said, without disclosing the breakdown of the
ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  