-- Day-Trippers Underpin Hong Kong Mall Rents: Real Estate
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-09-10T08:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/day-trippers-underpin-hong-kong-mall-rents-real-estate.html
Jane Hu, a financial adviser from
the Southern Chinese city of Huizhou, travels to the outskirts
of  Hong Kong  to shop with her friends at least once a month.
They rarely venture into the city center or stay overnight.  “It’s only a two-hour bus ride so we’re not wasting our
money on hotels,” said Hu, 30, hauling around a suitcase
stuffed with pharmaceutical drugs and snacks she bought in the
 New Town Plaza  shopping mall in the Sha Tin district, about 16
miles (26 kilometers) from Hong Kong’s border with mainland
 China . “These are like grocery-shopping trips.”  Mainland Chinese like Hu, taking day trips in search of
basic goods, are helping boost  retail rents  in the New
Territories, the biggest of Hong Kong’s three main regions,
according to broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)  Companies such as  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16)  and  Link Real Estate Investment Trust (823) , which run
malls in areas outside the city’s most-expensive retail
districts, are set to benefit amid a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy, BNP Paribas SA said.  “There’s a major shift in spending patterns among Chinese
travelers,” said  Simon Smith , senior director of Asia-Pacific
research at London-based Savills. The areas closer to the
Chinese border “are probably where the headroom is in terms of
rental growth this year.”  Rents at malls on the city’s outskirts, which can be as low
as a 10th of those in the city center’s, are expected to grow as
much as 10 percent this year, according to Savills. Rents of
street-level shops in prime shopping districts in Hong Kong will
probably remain flat, while those in prime-location malls will
gain about 5 percent.  Clamping Down  A total of 18.8 million  mainland tourists  visited Hong
Kong, a special administrative region of China with a separate
legal system and autonomy over issues such as food standards, in
the first half, up 20 percent from a year earlier, according to
the Tourism Board. Among them, single-day visitors rose 24
percent to 11 million, outpacing the 16 percent gain in those
staying overnight.  The New Territories, which covers more than 85 percent of
Hong Kong, is made up of mostly farming villages and towns
linked by railway and highways. They were developed by the
government in phases over the past three decades to accommodate
the expanding population.  The area is home to about half of Hong Kong’s 7 million
people and is projected to post the biggest  population growth  in
the decade ending 2019, topping  Hong Kong Island  and Kowloon,
government statistics show.  Rent Growth  Rents at malls in New Territories average about HK$80 ($10)
to HK$250 per square foot a month, according to Savills. That
compares with HK$1,000 to HK$2,000 for prime shopping district
street shops, and HK$500 to HK$700 at high-end shopping malls,
the broker said.  Wealthy Chinese tourists shopping for expensive goods,
including jewelry and watches, have helped Hong Kong prime
street rents outpace those in the fringe areas over the past
decade. Average rents on Hong Kong Island gained about 45
percent in 2011 and 2012, more than double the growth in the New
Territories, according to Savills. Prime refers to the most
stable high-income producing properties.  That trend is starting to change, as China’s President  Xi
Jinping  clamps down on luxury gifting among government officials
and as the country’s economy is set to grow at the slowest pace
in almost two decades.  ‘Good Time’  New Town Plaza, where Hu did her shopping, was built by Sun
Hung Kai, the city’s biggest developer by market value, in 1985.
Of the  20 malls  it operates in the city, 13 are in the New
Territories, according to the company’s website.  “It’s a good time for those with large portfolios in these
fringe areas,” said  Patrick Wong , Hong Kong-based analyst at
BNP Paribas.  Link REIT, the city’s biggest property trust, and Sino Land
Co. are also among real estate companies best placed to take
advantage of the trend because of their network of shopping
malls on the outskirts, Wong said.  More than a third of the 51 shopping malls owned by  Sino
Land (83) , which makes almost all its earnings in Hong Kong, are in
the New Territories, according to its website. Ivan Yau, a
spokesman at Sino Land, declined to comment on the outlook for
its malls in the area.  Zara, H&M  International fashion brands such as Inditex SA’s Zara and
Hennes & Mauritz AB are expanding in the north to lure shoppers
from China, according to Jeanette Chan, Hong Kong-based regional
director for retail at property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Victoria’s Secret, the Columbus, Ohio-based lingerie chain
known for its supermodels called “Angels,” this year opened
one of its first two stores in the city at New Town Plaza.  “It’s only very recently that brands of such caliber would
consider opening in these areas,” said Chan, adding that
landlords are now investing more to renovate malls on the city’s
outskirts to draw international fashion tenants.  High-end luxury fashion brands such as Gucci,  Louis Vuitton 
and Chanel, electronic-gadget stores and upmarket restaurants
dominate most of Hong Kong Island’s shopping centers, including
the IFC Mall in Central and Causeway Bay’s Times Square. Most
malls in the New Territories are filled with shops selling skin-care, health and beauty and baby products,  restaurant chains  and
independent fashion boutiques catering to mass-market shoppers.  Shop Diversification  That maybe about to change. Sun Hung Kai invested HK$280
million in 2009 to renovate a 600,000-square-foot shopping mall
in Tsuen Wan, a largely working- and middle-class area in the
west of the New Territories, Brenda Wong, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman at the developer, said. It is also planning a HK$360
million facelift of another mall, Sun  Yuen Long  Centre, in the
city’s northern Yuen Long district, she said.  Since its 2005 listing, Link REIT has completed renovations
of 30 shopping malls for HK$2.68 billion, while another 26
projects are either under way or being planned with an estimated
cost of more than HK$3 billion, according to its annual report
published in March. The trust owns 182 retail and carpark
properties mostly in Kowloon and the New Territories.  “We’re seeing many second-tier international brands
opening shops in our malls over the past few years,” Hubert
Chak, finance director at Link REIT, said in an interview.
“Some of the renovations are done simply because of demand from
our tenants.”  Swire, Soundwill  Landlords such as  Swire Properties (1972)  Ltd. and  Soundwill (878) 
Holdings Ltd., which run malls in prime areas on Hong Kong
Island, where the city’s main financial district and most
expensive residential areas are located, are feeling the
pressure, BNP Paribas’s Wong said.  Shares of Soundwill, one of the biggest retail landlords on
Russell Street in the Causeway Bay area, declined 31 percent
over the past six months, compared with the 5.5 percent loss in
the Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks nine of the biggest
developers in the city, including Sun Hung Kai and  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1)   Russell Street overtook  New York ’s Fifth Avenue as the
world’s most expensive shopping strip in 2012, according to
Savills.  Candy Yeung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Soundwill,
declined to comment.  No Boom  Swire Properties, which in August reported first-half
profit that missed analysts’ estimate as retail rent growth
slowed, has fallen 22 percent in the past six months. The
developer manages Pacific Place, a luxury shopping mall near the
Central business district.  Slowing retail growth “was partly because of the changed
tenant mix as it takes time for new tenants to settle in, as
well as may major tenants’ renovation,” Elizabeth Kok, retail
portfolio director at Swire Properties, said in an e-mail.  Swire Properties’ shares were unchanged at HK$22.10 at the
the close of trading in Hong Kong today, while Soundwill was
also unchanged at HK$15.16.  Not all are convinced that growth in fringe-area rental
will outperform the city’s prime shopping districts comprised of
Central and Causeway Bay on Hong Kong Island, and Tsim Sha Tsui
and  Mong Kok  across Victoria Harbour on the Kowloon Peninsula.  “Same-day travelers have been coming here along with the
luxury shoppers for a while,” Joe Lin, Hong Kong-based senior
director for retail services at CBRE Group Inc., said. “There’s
a bit of a slowdown in luxury shopping, but it is still growing.
At the same time, I don’t see a big boom of same-day travelers.
It’ll be steady.”  Lin forecasts prime street rents to grow 4 percent in the
second half, matching the growth in the first half.  Many mainland Chinese visit Hong Kong regularly to purchase
sundry goods such as soap, cosmetics and diapers as well as food
including milk powder because of lower prices and quality
concerns at home. The Hong Kong government this year restricted
outbound travelers to two cans of formula milk following
complaints of a shortage for local babies.  “The malls in Hong Kong are nicer to walk around and the
quality of the products are more reliable,” said the Chinese
stock-broker Hu. “We’ll keep coming back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  