-- Deloitte Fined Record 14 Million Pounds Over MG Rover Conflicts
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-09-09T13:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/deloitte-fined-record-14-million-pounds-over-mg-rover-conflicts.html
Deloitte LLP was fined 14 million
pounds ($21.9 million) by a U.K. accounting regulator for
failing to properly manage conflicts of interests when advising
the now-defunct British carmaker MG Rover Group Ltd.  The punishment is the largest fine issued by the Financial
Reporting Council, surpassing the 1.4 million penalty levied
against PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in 2012, a spokesman said.
Maghsoud Einollahi, a former partner at Deloitte, was fined
250,000 pounds and banned from the accounting profession for
three years.  MG Rover collapsed in 2005 after  China ’s Shanghai
Automotive Industry Corp. pulled out of talks to invest in the
business. The company fired 6,000 workers and shut its factory
in Longbridge,  England . Deloitte and Einollahi advised a group
of MG Rover directors known as the Phoenix Four while it audited
MG Rover, the ruling said.  The final  ruling  “should be essential reading for all
members of the profession,” Paul George, the FRC’s executive
director for conduct, said in a statement. “The sanctions
imposed are in line with the FRC’s aim to ensure penalties are
proportionate and have the necessary deterrent effect to prevent
misconduct and bolster public and market confidence.”  Deloitte said the regulator didn’t criticize the quality of
the work it performed more than 10 years ago and it will review
the ramifications of the ruling.  The accounting firm didn’t provide contact details for
Einollahi, who has now retired, and a phone number couldn’t be
located on the Internet.  The FRC is an investigative and disciplinary body
overseeing the U.K. accounting industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  