-- Delta Rejoining S&P 500 Boosts Airlines Most Since April
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-09-09T20:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/delta-rejoining-s-p-500-spurs-biggest-airline-rally-since-july.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  rose the most
in more than four months, sparking an industrywide rally, as the
world’s second-largest carrier prepared to rejoin the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Delta jumped  9.4 percent to $21.76 at the close in New York
for the biggest gain since April 23. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines
Index surged 5 percent, its biggest increase since April 16.  The S&P 500 move, which will come tomorrow after trading
closes, will prompt money managers to shift holdings to match
the index, according to Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
 Alabama . Delta will be the second carrier in the S&P 500,
joining Southwest Airlines Co.  “This positive development is occurring earlier than
expected and is anticipated to drive close to 90 million shares
of incremental demand,” Jamie Baker, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in a Sept. 6 note to clients. He
rates Delta neutral.  Delta President Ed Bastian said in a May interview that he
hoped the carrier would be added back to the benchmark gauge
after reducing debt and restarting dividend payments and a stock
buyback in its comeback from bankruptcy. Delta had been dropped
from the index in August 2005 ahead of its Chapter 11 bankruptcy
filing weeks later.  Delta replaces  BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , which is being bought by
closely held Bain Capital LLC., according to a  statement  on
Sept. 6 from S&P Dow Jones Indices. More than $5 trillion is
 benchmarked  to the S&P 500, according to the website.  At $17.1 billion before today, Delta’s market value was the
largest among U.S. airlines, ahead of United Continental
Holdings Inc.’s $10.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  