-- Dentsu Mulls 20 Deals to Gain Talent in Emerging Markets
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-10T07:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/dentsu-mulls-20-deals-to-gain-talent-in-emerging-markets.html
Dentsu Inc. (4324) , Asia’s biggest
advertising company, is looking at the financial accounts of 20
potential acquisition targets to gain the technology and people
it needs as customers shift to digital campaigns.  “Gaining talent and companies that have expertise in
digital advertising is crucial,” Dentsu President Tadashi Ishii
said in an interview in Tokyo. “We’ll continue using M&A as a
means to expand.”  Dentsu is shopping for companies after paying about $4.9
billion in March for London-based Aegis Group Plc, the biggest
purchase in its 112-year history. The Tokyo-based company raised
about 125 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in a July share sale,
including an overallotment, helped pay down debt to prepare for
more acquisitions, Ishii said.  “We are in an investment phase for global expansion,”
Ishii, 62, said Sept. 6. “There isn’t a specific limit” to the
budget for acquisitions, he said.  Dentsu rose 3.4 percent to close at 3,620 yen in  Tokyo , the
 highest  since May 22. The gain brought the company’s advance to
57 percent this year, outperforming the 38 percent advance by
Japan’s Topix index.  The advertising and media-buying agency, which started in
1901 and spun off its newswire service in 1936, reported  cash 
and equivalents of 208 billion yen as of March 31, the highest
fiscal year-end total since at least 1997, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deal Pipeline  The deals in Dentsu’s pipeline, subject to due diligence
and negotiations of terms, would add digital operations in
countries and regions including  China ,  India ,  Indonesia ,  Brazil 
and Eastern Europe, Ishii said.  Dentsu has  announced  12 purchases this year including an 80
percent stake in Webchutney Studio Pvt, an Indian computer
graphics company, and Beijing Wonder Advertising Co., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company hasn’t disclosed
terms of either transaction.  Worldwide revenue from e-mail marketing alone is projected
to expand to $15.7 billion by 2017, led by growth in the Asia-Pacific region of more than 12 percent a year, according to
estimates by researcher Global Industry Analysts Inc.  Dentsu reported a net loss of 3.7 billion yen in the  three
months  ended June 30 because of goodwill writedowns related to
the Aegis transaction, the company said Aug. 13. Sales rose 15
percent to 514 billion yen in the quarter.  The company’s buying binge is adding to consolidation in
the global advertising industry.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  in July said
it agreed to buy  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , a deal that would make the
company the industry’s largest, surpassing  WPP Plc. (WPP)   “Our peers often aim at the same targets, so I’m not sure
whether half of these deals will come through,” Ishii said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  