-- Detroit Slows Michigan Sales to Fewest in a Decade: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/detroit-slows-michigan-sales-to-fewest-in-a-decade-muni-credit.html
The smallest amount of municipal-bond issuance in Michigan in 10 years is threatening to derail
the state’s economic comeback, showing how Governor  Rick Snyder 
underestimated the fallout from Detroit’s bankruptcy.  Bond sales dwindled to $71.5 million in August, the slowest
month in the state since at least February 2003,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. At least three Michigan localities -- Genesee
and Saginaw counties and  Battle Creek  -- postponed a combined
$131 million of issuance last month after Detroit’s July 18
Chapter 9 filing because  interest rates  were too high. Oakland
County delayed a $350 million deal last week.  Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr has proposed imposing
losses on general-obligation bondholders, drawing scrutiny to
debt backed by a local government’s full faith and credit.
Frankenmuth, northwest of Detroit in Saginaw County, is offering
$1.75 million of limited-tax general obligations tomorrow in one
of two long-term sales planned in the state this week.  “At some point, the cities need the money and will have to
borrow, but it’s going to be more expensive and that’s bad for
the Michigan economy,” said  Erik Gordon , who teaches at the
 University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor .
“Money that’s paid in excess interest is money that’s flowing
out of the state with nothing coming back in return.”  Rebound Curbed  The postponed projects and higher borrowing costs threaten
to halt economic gains that have led Snyder to call Michigan the
Comeback State. Since the 18-month recession ended in June 2009,
Michigan has had the second-best economic growth among U.S.
states, trailing only  North Dakota , according to the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  raised
their outlook on the state’s credit to positive this year,
citing growing reserves and balanced budgets. Thanks in part to
the federal bailout of the  auto industry , Michigan’s
 unemployment rate  has declined to 8.8 percent from as high as
14.2 percent in 2009, Labor Department data show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Michigan general
obligations relative to benchmark munis tells a different story.
The eighth-most-populous state’s 0.55 percentage point  yield
spread  over top-rated debt is second-most among 17 states
tracked by Bloomberg, behind  Illinois . Michigan pays more to
borrow than  California , even with an S&P rating two levels
higher.  Absent Appetite  “It’s a healthy reaction by the municipal market to take a
pause and reassess the risk” in Michigan, said Robert Amodeo,
head of munis in  New York  at Western Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $30 billion of local debt. “There’s a lack of
appetite at the moment.”  Oakland County, which borders Detroit to the north along 8
Mile Road, last week delayed a deal because officials fell
behind schedule in assembling offering documents, according to
Deputy Executive Robert Daddow. The sale would be the biggest in
the state since Detroit’s bankruptcy, Bloomberg data show.  The municipality still wants to complete the deal this
month, Daddow said. The delay “has nothing to do with
 Michigan ,” he said in a Sept. 3 interview. Moody’s rates the
county Aaa.  Forlorn Frankenmuth  The county’s postponement slashed the slate of offerings
for this week. Frankenmuth, a city of about 5,000, is the sole
Michigan locality issuing long-term debt directly into the
market this week, Bloomberg data show. The state’s finance
authority plans to offer bonds as soon as Sept. 11 for Bay
County, while Waterford School District intends to sell $12.5
million of state-aid backed notes due in a year.  Frankenmuth will offer bank-qualified securities tomorrow
via competitive sale and use the proceeds for infrastructure
projects.  Charlie Graham, city manager, said he is concerned about
what effect Detroit’s filing will have on the sale. The city
won’t pay an interest rate higher than 6 percent, according to
offering documents.  The drop in Michigan  issuance  was deeper than in the rest
of the $3.7 trillion municipal market, where deals tend to slow
in the U.S. summer months. Michigan bond offerings in August
were down 84 percent from the three-year average, compared with
a 6.8 percent decline nationwide.  Detroit , the birthplace of the automobile assembly line,
filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy July 18, citing $18
billion of debt. Decades of decline had left it too poor to pay
billions of dollars owed bondholders, retired cops and current
city workers. It has lost about 60 percent of its population
since the 1950s.  Risky Business  Detroit is “an incredibly unique situation,” Sara Wurfel,
a Snyder spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “There
continues to be an abundance of sound, smart investments to make
in Michigan and our local communities. Michigan’s fiscal house
is in order and sound.”  Snyder in a July interview said he expected bond buyers to
be “sophisticated investors” and differentiate Detroit’s
situation from other localities.  “The economies of most Michigan cities have very little to
do with Detroit,” Gordon said. “But their ability to raise
finances got linked to Detroit when the governor basically said
‘We don’t think we have to treat general-obligation bonds the
way you always thought they would be treated.’ Nobody knows how
big of a  risk premium  to put on that.”  Market Week  Municipal issuers from  Virginia  to California are set to
sell $5.9 billion in long-term debt this week, the most since
the week ended Aug. 9, Bloomberg data show.  At  3.15 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest since April 2011. The interest rate compares with  2.94
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 107 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Alameda County Joint Powers Authority on the eastern shore 
of San Francisco Bay plans to offer more than $285 million of 
lease-revenue bonds this week to finance the replacement of a 
portion of Highland Hospital, a county-owned facility in Oakland,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg,  Fitch Ratings  and 
Moody's Investors Service. Moody's rates the debt Aa3, fourth-highest level and two steps below the county's general-obligation
bonds, citing the issuer's relatively high ratio of lease-revenue
debt and its pension-obligation securities. Fitch has an AA
rating on the credit, third-highest, citing the resilience of the
county's economy and its tax base, with 1.5 million residents. A 
unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. is managing the negotiated sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  