-- Deutsche Bank Provides Bank Line For Mullen’s Progress
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-09T20:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/deutsche-bank-provides-bank-line-for-mullen-s-progress.html
Progress Residential LP, a single-family rental company started by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
partner Donald R. Mullen Jr., obtained a $400 million  credit
line  from  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Progress Residential looks “forward to continuing to
invest in our growing portfolio of rental homes across the
country,” Mullen said in an e-mailed statement from  New York .
Progress Residential, formerly called Fundamental REO, has about
6,000 houses in nine states. It expects to spend $2 billion on
homes by 2016, according to a March presentation.  Wall Street-backed investors have raised at least $18
billion to buy more than 100,000 houses in the past two years.
The companies, including some of the world’s largest private-equity managers, are seeking to take advantage of  prices  that
fell as much as 35 percent below their 2006 peak and rising
demand for rentals as the U.S. homeownership  rate  dropped to
about the lowest level in 18 years.  Cheap financing is helping the firms to keep buying as home
values rise at the fastest pace in seven years. Prices
increasing more rapidly than rents can reduce yields, which
borrowing can offset.  “This credit facility is evidence of the growing
acceptance of financing for the single-family rental business,”
Stephen Blevit, an attorney with Sidley Austin LLP who
represents Deutsche Bank, said in an interview from  Los Angeles .
“We’re really just in the nascent stages of what’s likely to
evolve into an industry worth tens of billions of dollars.”  Personal Investments  Mullen personally started investing in rental homes in
2009, while still a partner at Goldman Sachs. He joined the New
York-based bank in 2001 after working at First Boston, Drexel 
Burnham Lambert Inc., Salomon Brothers Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. 
He formed Fundamental REO last year with former Bear Stearns
colleague Curt Schade.  In 2007, Mullen was named to oversee Goldman Sachs’s
mortgage department, which built a position called “the big
short,” a $13.9 billion wager against subprime mortgage-related
securities. The bet helped make Goldman Sachs Wall Street’s most
profitable firm, even as many of its clients lost money,
according to a U.S. Senate report.  Deutsche Bank has been a leader in funding institutional
landlords entering the historically mom-and-pop business of
single-family homeownership. The Frankfurt-based bank led $3.6
billion of credit lines to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
single-family rental operator, which spent more than $5 billion
on 32,000 homes, and $200 million to  Apollo Global Management
LLC. (APO)   Colony American Homes Inc., the Scottsdale, Arizona-based
landlord with 15,000 rental houses founded by Thomas Barrack Jr., said last week it obtained a $500 million line of credit
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The bank line has an accordion feature
that allows it to grow to $1 billion.  American Homes 4 Rent (AMH) , an
Agoura Hills, California-based single-family operator founded by
B. Wayne Hughes, has a $670 million credit line expandable to $1
billion with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  