-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Choose TPG, Apax for Scout Bids
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-09-10T07:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/deutsche-telekom-said-to-choose-tpg-apax-for-scout-bids.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
biggest phone company, selected four private-equity firms for
the next round of bids for a stake in its Scout24 digital
classifieds business, people familiar with the auction said.  Apax Partners LLP, TPG Capital, Hellman & Friedman LLC and
 Silver Lake  Management LLC are still in the running for a 30
percent stake in Scout24, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. The offers value the
business at 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) to 2 billion euros;
final bids are due by next week, they said.  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , Germany’s biggest newspaper publisher,
said last week it’s no longer interested in Scout24. Buyout
firms including KKR & Co. and EQT Partners AB have also dropped
out of the running, the people said.  Scout24 has 14 million monthly visitors and operates in 22
countries providing online classifieds for cars, properties,
jobs, travel and relationships, according to an  August  report on
its website, making it Deutsche Telekom’s best-known digital
brand. Deutsche Telekom is weighing a stake sale as it seeks a
partner to help expand the business, the people said.  Europe ’s phone companies are looking to offload Internet
and content businesses to raise money for building high-speed
mobile networks.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  of Spain last year announced the
sale of its stake in online travel agency Rumbo, while  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  agreed to sell a television unit in March.  Deutsche Telekom spokesman Andreas Leigers said the
strategic review of Scout24 continues, declining to elaborate.
Representatives for TPG, Hellman & Friedman and Apax declined to
comment. Silver Lake didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  Deutsche Telekom rose 0.5 percent to 9.68 euros at 9:16
a.m. in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  