-- Dijsselbloem Backs Barnier on Bank Resolution, Notes Conflicts
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-09T16:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/dijsselbloem-backs-barnier-on-bank-resolution-notes-conflicts.html
The European Commission’s proposal
for a single European resolution authority for failing banks is
“defensible,” though potential conflicts of interest must be
prevented, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  The European Union plan would bring together national
regulators in a resolution board that would draw up plans for
intervening at struggling banks. The final decision to initiate
the measures would rest with the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm.  In a letter to the Dutch parliament, Dijsselbloem, who
heads meetings of euro-area finance ministers, said the
commission’s “prominent role” in the plan put forward in July
by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, contains
the potential for conflicts of interest with its other
functions, such as regulating state aid and the single market.  The  Netherlands  seeks a resolution authority that is “as
independent as possible, whereby any potential conflict of
interest between the various roles of the European Commission
and the  European Central Bank  must be prevented,” Dijsselbloem
said.  European Union leaders called last year for euro-area
countries to put in place joint oversight and crisis management
of lenders in a bid to repair confidence in the solidity of the
bloc’s banking system. While governments have approved the
project in principle, Barnier’s plan to centralize decisions on
how to resuscitate or wind down an imperiled bank have met
staunch opposition from  Germany , which argues that the proposed
measures are illegal under current rules.  ‘No Plan B’  “There is no plan B,” Barnier said earlier this month.
“It’s urgent that we deliver this second pillar of the banking
union, which the euro area needs for its stability.”  Dijsselbloem, on behalf of the Dutch cabinet, said
conflicts of interest could be resolved by limiting the role of
the European Commission and the ECB, which is scheduled to
assume oversight of euro-area banks next year, and making the
Single Resolution Board an “independent body.”  He also said that the current proposal isn’t sufficiently
clear about who will decide which resolution instruments to use
in individual cases, and specifically to what extent the bail-in
instruments must be applied. Dijsselbloem wants the Single
Resolution Board to make this call.  Dijsselbloem said he supports Barnier’s call for a 55
billion-euro ($73 billion) common resolution fund financed by
levies on banks. The fund would be able to tap markets, backed
by the assets of the banks it covers.  Barnier’s draft law needs approval by governments and the
European Parliament before it can take effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  