-- Dollar Falls as U.S. Considers Syria Weapons Plan
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-10T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/dollar-holds-decline-as-russian-syria-proposal-damps-haven-bid.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major peers as Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the U.S. will
explore a Russian proposal for  Syria  to turn over its chemical
weapons while seeking approval for military strikes.  Japan ’s currency declined versus all of its 16 major
counterparts for a second day as minutes of the Bank of Japan’s
August meeting showed policy makers agreed monetary easing was
taking effect. Australia’s dollar advanced to the strongest in
six weeks as Chinese reports added to signs of recovery in the
South Pacific nation’s largest trading partner. Norway’s krone
jumped after inflation accelerated.  “It’s kind of a risk-back-on situation, aided and abetted
by what’s going on in Syria,”  Andrew Wilkinson , the chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The fundamental picture is now a little
bit more muddied with regard to tapering. The dollar is a bit
softer on those grounds,” he said, referring to the  Federal
Reserve ’s debate on reducing stimulus.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which measures the
greenback against 10 major peers, traded at 1,027.88 at 5 p.m.
in New York after touching 1,026.53, the lowest level since Aug.
28.  The yen dropped 0.9 percent to 133.18 per euro after
sliding to the weakest since May 22. Japan’s currency fell 0.8
percent to 100.39 per dollar after depreciating to the least
since July 25. The euro was little changed at $1.3268.  Rand Weakens  South Africa ’s rand weakened for the first time in five
days, retreating from a four-week high, after the nation’s
current-account gap widened more than forecast. The currency
dropped 0.3 percent to 9.9828 per dollar.  Indonesia ’s rupiah tumbled on speculation  Bank Indonesia 
relaxed efforts to prop up the exchange rate. The currency fell
as much as 3.2 percent to 11,515 per dollar in the biggest slide
since November 2008 before paring losses to trade 0.7 percent
weaker at 11,235 per dollar.  Norway’s krone climbed 1.4 percent to 7.8537 per euro after
a report showed inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent in August,
compared with a median estimate of 3 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Currency volatility as measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
G-7 Volatility Index declined as much as 0.05 percentage point
to 9.07 percent, the lowest since Aug. 12. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of stocks gained 0.7 percent.  Syria Plan  France said it will submit a Russian-backed plan to
confiscate Syria’s chemical weapons to the  United Nations , as
Interfax reported that Bashar al-Assad’s government accepted the
proposal.  “We’re waiting for that proposal, but we’re not waiting
for long,” Kerry told the House Armed Services Committee today.
“It has to be swift, it has to be real, it has to be
verifiable. It cannot be a delaying tactic.”  The “credible threat of force” by the U.S. is the only
reason that Syria and its ally,  Russia , are even considering a
possible diplomatic solution, Kerry said.  The yen also weakened as minutes of the BOJ’s Aug. 7-8
meeting showed policy board members said bond purchases were
putting downward pressure on yields and consumer-price
expectations have turned favorable.  Yen Analysis  “It seems like the U.S. is considering other options,
other than striking, mainly that Russian proposal and I think
that’s giving markets more comfort,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist at Mizuho Bank in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “In terms of the effect on the dollar, if
that situation intensifies, then you’re going to see safe-haven
buying.”  The yen has declined 1.7 percent in the past week, the
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar dropped 1
percent and the euro fell 0.5 percent.  The Aussie strengthened for a third day against its U.S.
counterpart after an index of business confidence improved to
the highest since May 2011 as the prospect of a change in
government lifted sentiment.  The confidence index for August jumped to 6 from minus 3,
according to a National  Australia  Bank Ltd. survey released
today.  Factory production  in  China  increased 10.4 percent last
month from a year earlier, compared with a 9.7 percent gain in
July, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing.  Aussie Strength  “The Aussie dollar is reacting positively to data out of
China,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Expectations that China’s
economic recovery is under way are building.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.9 percent to 93.12 U.S. cents,
the highest since July 24.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $16 billion, compared with $21.1 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the U.S. dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 26 percent. Options on the Aussie-U.S. dollar rate totaled $2.5 billion, or 16 percent.  Greenback-yen options trading was 37 percent less than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-U.S. dollar options
trading was 5 percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  