-- Dubai Stocks Sink to 2-Month Low as Syria Spurs Regional Selloff
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-09T13:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/dubai-stocks-sink-to-2-month-low-as-syria-spurs-regional-selloff.html
Dubai’s shares dropped to a two-month low, leading declines in the  Persian Gulf , on concern a
potential U.S.-led military strike against  Syria  will
destabilize the region.  The benchmark DFM General Index tumbled 2 percent to
2,324.54, the lowest close since July 7 and the second-biggest
decline among 94 global indexes monitored by Bloomberg. Abu
Dhabi’s gauge lost 1.4 percent and the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index
of regional stocks decreased 0.3 percent.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the
 United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank, retreated the most in almost
two weeks, while  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  fell to a three-month low.  Dubai’s equity index has fallen 7.9 percent this month as
President  Barack Obama  tries to persuade Congress to support air
strikes against Syria over a chemical attack. Investors have are
selling shares in one of the world’s five best-performing equity
indexes this year amid concern a conflict would affect Dubai’s
trade and tourism industries.  “It’s a continuation of investors’ nervousness to the
political developments in Syria and profit taking,” Tariq Qaqish, a director at Dubai-based fund manager Al Mal Capital
PSC, said by e-mail today.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said the U.S. should
“expect every action” in retaliation if it proceeds with
limited military strikes.  Tourism, Trade  The DFM, which has posted the biggest price swings in the
world in the past month, is up 43 percent in 2013. The emirate
earned safe-haven status among investors after being unaffected
by uprisings that spread through the  Middle East  since 2011.
Wholesale and retail trade in Dubai, which account for almost a
third of the economy, grew at the fastest pace in five years in
2012, according to government data.  Emirates NBD fell 5.6 percent, the most since Aug. 27, to
4.9 dirhams, trimming a  rally this year  to 72 percent. First
Gulf Bank, the lender controlled by  Abu Dhabi ’s ruling family,
slid 2 percent to 14.6 dirhams, the weakest since May 28.  Elsewhere in the region, Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  retreated 1.2
percent, Oman’s benchmark  gauge  fell 1.1 percent and Bahrain’s
 BB All Share Index (BHSEASI)  lost 0.2 percent. Kuwait’s  benchmark index 
was little changed while  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
advanced 0.1 percent, after earlier tumbling 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  