-- Kabel Investor Elliott Boosts Stake Before Vodafone Deadline
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-09T16:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/hedge-fund-elliott-boosts-kabel-shares-before-vodafone-deadline.html
Paul Singer , the billionaire hedge-fund manager, boosted his stake in  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) 
to become one of its biggest shareholders days before a deadline
for investors to decide whether they’d accept  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s takeover bid.  Singer and entities owned by his Elliott Management Corp.
held 10.9 percent of the cable company as of Sept. 6, according
to a German regulatory filing. Singer’s firm had just more than
5 percent of Kabel Deutschland as of Aug. 23,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Vodafone, which is bidding 7.7 billion euros ($10.2
billion) -- or 87 euros a share -- for Kabel Deutschland, must
have 75 percent of the cable company’s investors accept the
offer by Sept. 11, or else the deal will fall through.  The U.K. wireless carrier, which owned or has secured the
backing of holders of a total of 11.9 percent of  Kabel
Deutschland  as of Sept. 6, said today all terms and conditions
of its offer remain unchanged and won’t be amended. While
bidders of German companies are allowed to request a lower
acceptance threshold before the end of an offer period,
Vodafone’s statement eliminates that possibility, Citigroup Inc.
analyst Simon Weeden wrote in a note.  “We see this as a move in a game theory ‘chicken’ scenario
which inevitably carries some increase in the risk of deal
failure,” Weeden wrote. “Deal failure would in our view leave
Vodafone’s convergence strategy in question.”  Domination Agreement  The deadline for investors to tender their shares expires
at midnight in  Frankfurt  on Sept. 11. If the tender offer is
successful, the European Commission is due to complete its
review of Vodafone’s bid by Sept. 20, Vodafone said today.
 Germany ’s Federal Cartel Office, the local regulator, has said
it won’t need to issue its own approval of the deal.  The 75 percent requirement is a common threshold used by
companies to help secure sufficient shareholder votes to gain
control of publicly traded German businesses under a so-called
domination and profit transfer agreement. Recent applications of
the rules include Volkswagen AG’s takeover of truckmaker MAN SE
and Deutsche Bank AG’s acquisition of  Deutsche Postbank AG. (DPB)   Investor Worries  An Elliott Management spokesman in  New York , who asked not
to be named citing company policy, declined to comment beyond
the regulatory filing.  Kabel Deutschland slipped 0.6 percent to close at 85.22
euros in Frankfurt. Vodafone fell 0.2 percent to 210.40 pence on
the London exchange.  At least one top investor has expressed concerns that the
75 percent threshold is too high and that Vodafone risks letting
the deal lapse, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be named discussing the deal.  The takeover would give Vodafone access to potential
customers for offers combining phone, Internet and TV
subscriptions. The move would also intensify competition with
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  on whose network Vodafone has so far relied
for wireline services.  Vodafone last week agreed to sell its 45 percent stake in
U.S. mobile-phone company  Verizon Wireless  for $130 billion.
While most of the proceeds will be returned to shareholders, the
Newbury, England-based company has said it will retain about $30
billion to repay debt and make investments.  AT&T Inc., the biggest U.S. phone company, may be
interested in buying what’s left of Vodafone after the sale to
take advantage of growth in mobile networks in  Europe , people
familiar with the matter said this month. Vodafone spokesman
Simon Gordon declined to comment on a potential deal with
Dallas-based AT&T or the implications of Elliott’s increased
stake.  “An early end to its quest for Kabel Deutschland would
leave Vodafone post its U.S. exit unlevered with minimal net
debt,” Citigroup’s Weeden said. A failure of the Kabel
Deutschland deal “would keep it as a purer mobile play and
might encourage further thoughts among investors of it being a
takeover target itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  