-- Emerging ETF Caps Longest Rally Since 2007 on China Trade
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-09T21:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/emerging-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-on-chinese-trade-data.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund capped the longest advance in more
than six years after data showed Chinese exports grew more than
estimated. Brazil’s Ibovespa entered a  bull market .  The developing-nation ETF added 2.7 percent to $41.04,
rising an eighth day, in the longest winning stretch since July
2007. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.9 percent to
973.79, the highest level since June. Benchmark gauges from
China to Thailand and Turkey gained more than 3.3 percent, while
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced for a sixth day. Brazil’s Ibovespa
extended a surge from its July low to 20 percent.  Stocks joined a global rally after data showed China’s
exports rose more than estimated in August and inflation stayed
below a government target, helping Premier Li Keqiang sustain a
rebound in the second-largest economy from a two-quarter
slowdown. Russia sold its first sovereign bonds in euros, along
with dollar debt, lured to the 17-nation common currency by the
prospect of  interest rates  staying at record lows.  “We’ve seen some good economic data coming out of China,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at Solaris Group
LLC in New York, which manages over $1.5 billion, said by phone.
“This is certainly another positive development that perhaps
we’re seeing overall growth improve.”  All 10 industry  groups  in MSCI’s emerging-markets gauge
rose, led by commodity companies. The broad measure has climbed
4.3 percent in four days, trimming  this year’s drop  to 7.7
percent, compared with a 13 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index. The developing-nation index  trades  at 10.4 times
projected 12-month earnings, trailing the MSCI World’s 13.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Price Swings  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, added 0.3 percent to 26.29. Twenty
out of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
gained, led by the Brazilian real.  Brazil’s Ibovespa entered a  bull market , led by iron-ore
producer Vale SA. OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA tumbled
after saying founder  Eike Batista  is challenging its decision to
exercise a  put option  requiring him to inject as much as $1
billion into the  oil company . The real advanced 1.3 percent,
after gaining 3.4 last week, the most since January 2012.  The Micex Index capped the biggest rally since December as
improving Chinese data boosted appetite for metal producers. OAO
Uralkali, the nation’s biggest potash producer, surged.  Bond Sale  The Russian government raised 725 million euros ($962
million) of seven-year euro-denominated securities and is
selling $6 billion of dollar bonds, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the sale, who asked not to be identified as
the information isn’t public.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index jumped 3.7 percent,
the most among major emerging-market gauges, as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and
 Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  rallied. Benchmark measures in  Poland 
and the  Czech Republic  added at least 0.5 percent, while
Hungarian shares retreated for a fourth day.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 3.4 percent, the biggest
gain since Dec. 14.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  jumped 10
percent as investors speculated lenders will be allowed to issue
preferred shares to boost capital.  Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 1.1 percent after China’s trade
data brightened the outlook for the exports. Thailand’s SET
Index surged 3.6 percent, while the Jakarta Composite Index
rallied 2.9 percent.  More Losses  Wall Street’s biggest firms are predicting intensifying
bond losses in emerging markets, where borrowing costs have
already soared to the highest in more than four years versus
U.S. corporate debt, as the Fed considers curtailing stimulus.  “We’re not yet convinced that we’ve seen the worst in
terms of flows out of emerging markets,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , the
chief investment strategist in fixed-income at New York-based
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, said in a
telephone interview, expressing his own views.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 345 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  