-- Lenders Seen Facing $15.6 Billion in U.K. Real Estate Swap Bills
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-09T08:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/lenders-seen-facing-15-6-billion-in-u-k-real-estate-swap-bills.html
Lenders may have to pay as much as
10 billion pounds ($15.6 billion) to settle claims they mis-sold
U.K. interest-rate contracts linked to commercial real estate.  Borrowers may receive compensation or preferential loan
conditions valued at 5 billion pounds to 10 billion pounds from
lenders after the cost of breaking the swaps spiraled when the
 Bank of England  cut its benchmark rate, Broker DTZ said in a
report today.  “Swaps have become one of the biggest impediments for
investors to constructively refinance or restructure their
legacy loans,” Hans Vrensen, DTZ’s global head of research,
wrote in the report. When property values fell, the real estate
wasn’t worth enough to pay both the swap and the mortgage,
meaning borrowers couldn’t refinance or restructure their
borrowings, according to the report.  U.K. borrowers used swap contracts to manage the risk of
interest-rate increases on the floating-rate market. Before the
U.K. real estate crash in 2007, borrowers took out swap
contracts of as much as 30 years with five-year commercial
property loans. When the Bank of England cut its benchmark rate
to 0.5 percent from 4.75 percent, the penalty for breaking the
swaps jumped.  Under the contracts, when rates fall, customers may have to
pay higher costs to keep payments within the agreed upon range.
Borrowers that exit contracts through default or loan repayment
are liable for costs running the length of the agreement.  Nearly 70 borrowers have already settled their claims over
swaps out of court, DTZ said, citing data compiled by Vedanta
Hedging Ltd. The average settlement has been the equivalent of
18 percent of the notional swap amount, according to DTZ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 