-- Energy Future Investors to Lose Half in Bankruptcy, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-09-09T18:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/energy-future-investors-to-lose-half-in-bankruptcy-moody-s-says.html
Investors in Energy Future Holdings
Corp.’s  debt  may get less of their money back than comparable
restructurings when the power company that was the target of the
biggest leveraged buyout in history files for bankruptcy this
year, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  There’s a high probability that the electricity provider
taken over in a $48 billion deal in 2007 led by KKR & Co., TPG
Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners “will announce a
material restructuring in the fourth quarter,” probably giving
investors across the company a recovery of about 50 percent,
Moody’s analysts led by Jim Hempstead wrote in a note today.  “EFH is likely to see lower ultimate recoveries because of
the sheer size of its debt load and the challenging market
fundamentals” including low power prices and strict and
expensive environmental regulations, they wrote.  Texas’s largest electricity provider, formerly known as TXU
Corp., has struggled since the buyout left it with more than $40
billion of debt in a gamble natural gas prices would rise.
Instead, prices plunged 74 percent from a July 2008 high. The
company said in April that creditors had rejected a pre-packaged
bankruptcy plan to restructure $32 billion in debt held by its
competitive power unit.  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Dallas-based Energy Future,
declined to comment on the report.  ‘Additional Discussions’  Energy Future said last month it has “engaged in
additional discussions” with a broader group of creditors and
continues to evaluate restructuring options including filing for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy for some or all of the company, excluding
power-line unit Oncor Electric Delivery Co.  Holders of the senior secured first-lien  notes  from Energy
Future Intermediate Holding and Texas Competitive Electric
Holdings Co., the parent’s deregulated unit, may recover 68
percent and 63 percent respectively, while senior-unsecured
lenders at Texas Competitive and the parent “would be pretty
much wiped out,” recovering as little as 4 percent, the
analysts wrote.  Investors ultimately recovered 92 percent from Calpine
Corp., and 52 percent from NRG Energy Inc., according to the
report. Enron Corp.’s investors recovered 24 cents on the
dollar, and those at WorldCom Inc. 29 cents.  Texas Competitive’s $1.8 billion of 10.25 percent bonds due
November 2015 traded at an all-time low of 3.47 cents on the
dollar at 12:56 p.m. today in  New York , according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  