-- Energy Week Ahead: NRC’s Chief to Testify on Nuclear-Waste Plans
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/energy-week-ahead-nrc-s-chief-to-testify-on-nuclear-waste-plans.html
Congress returns from a five-week
recess to take up several perennial issues: turmoil in the
Middle East, rising government debt and where to dump more than
65,000 tons of waste from the nation’s nuclear  power plants .  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  and  Peter Lyons , the Energy Department’s assistant
secretary for nuclear energy, testify tomorrow at a House Energy
and Commerce subcommittee hearing on the waste issue.  While U.S. lawmakers were away from Washington, a federal
appeals court on Aug. 13 ruled the NRC is “flouting the law”
by not completing its safety review for a dump at Nevada’s Yucca
Mountain. The agency, which stopped work after President  Barack Obama ’s administration killed funding for Yucca in 2010, is
reviewing options on the matter through Sept. 30.  Now lawmakers just have to agree on a place to dispose of
the spent-fuel rods, a debate that has been underway since at
least President  Ronald Reagan ’s first term, when he signed a law
to set up a permanent repository. For now, the material is
stored at about 75 operating and closed nuclear plants.  Here’s where it gets thorny. House Republicans say the 1987
law is clear: Yucca Mountain was designated as the nation’s
nuclear-waste dump. However, even if the NRC were to complete
its review immediately, the Obama administration has determined
that the facility isn’t an option, and Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, opposes Yucca. The stalemate
continues.  Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican, and
his colleagues on the House panel probably will want to hear
what Macfarlane has to say about the court’s ruling and how much
cash the agency needs to complete its study. Right now, the NRC
has about $11 million, equal to about 13 percent of its current
budget, for the purpose.  On the other side of Capitol Hill, senators led by  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska
Republican, have introduced legislation that would set up a
government authority to oversee nuclear-waste disposal and
create a storage facility.  The nation’s backlog of commercial nuclear waste is rising
so high, even Yucca Mountain won’t be able to hold it all, a
independent commission established by Obama reported last year.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  CARBON-CAPTURE OUTLOOK: The Atlantic Council will hold a forum
today to examine the prospects for advanced fossil-fuel
projects, such as carbon-capture technology from power plants.
The forum is set to include representatives from Southern Co.,
the Department of Energy and the Royal Norwegian Embassy. It
begins at 2 p.m.  RICHARD-WINDSOR-TESTIMONY: Former Environmental Protection
Administration chief  Lisa Jackson , who adopted the handle
Richard Windsor as her internal e-mail account, will testify to
Congress about the Obama administration’s adherence to federal
transparency rules. Republicans in Congress say the EPA and
Jackson tried to circumvent open records laws by using the alias
e-mail for official business. The House Oversight & Government
Reform hearing is scheduled tomorrow at 9 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  