-- Eric Miller, Noted Strategist of 1980s Bull Market, Dies at 85
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-09-09T00:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/eric-miller-noted-strategist-of-1980s-bull-market-dies-at-85.html
Eric T. Miller, the longtime chief
strategist for Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette who called the stock-market bottom in 1982 and became a go-to analyst of the  bull
market  that followed, has died. He was 85.  He died on Aug. 29 at his home in Carmel,  California , his
wife, Susan Miller, said yesterday in an interview. The cause
was complications from a brain tumor.  As chief investment officer at the New York-based firm that
turned research from a backwater into a premier Wall Street
product, Miller synthesized DLJ’s company and industry reports,
combined them with economic and political forecasts and devised
market strategies. His written commentary, widely followed by
investors, was titled “Random Gleanings.”  “At a time when the default mentality on Wall Street was
rapidly morphing into ‘get-the-deal-done, no-matter-what’, Eric
stood out for his for his thoughtfulness, independent-mindedness
and integrity,”  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer at Second
Curve Capital LLC,  wrote  last week on bankstocks.com, the
website he founded and to which Miller occasionally contributed.  “He was what I think of as the ultimate anti-dogmatist: he
understood that it wasn’t so much his opinion on an investment
issue that mattered, but how that opinion was arrived at,”
wrote Brown, who is also a Bloomberg contributing editor.  Two Recessions  Miller was chief investment strategist from 1979 to 1998 at
DLJ, after serving in that capacity for Oppenheimer Capital
Corp. His DLJ tenure coincided with two U.S. recessions from
1980 through 1982 followed by the start, on Aug. 13, 1982, of
what’s widely considered the greatest bull market in history,
lasting into the 21st century.  Miller was among the market strategists who saw the turn
coming. On June 15, 1982, he was quoted in the  Wall Street 
Journal as saying, “We continue to think that most stocks have
seen their lows.”  In “Anatomy of the Bear: Lessons from Wall Street’s Four
Great Bottoms” (2007), author Russell Napier, a strategist at
CLSA Ltd., cited that Miller call as one example of why “it is
a myth that bulls are extinct at the bottom of a  bear market .”  From then on, Miller was regularly quoted in articles on
the euphoria and fear that comes with a raging and long-running
bull market.  “No matter how well you have done, there’s constant
pressure on what the market will do tomorrow,” he was quoted as
saying in a March 1986 Chicago Tribune article. “It’s difficult
when it travels a distance in three or four months that it
normally travels in two or three years. The constant question
I’m asked is whether it can go further.”  Black Monday  Eleven months later, he was quoted in the Miami Herald
saying, “Investors should be careful not to chase stocks that
have moved up sharply. The market is in an advanced, speculative
stage.” Eight months after that, on Oct. 19, 1987, came the
market crash known as Black Monday.  According to a 1985 article in the Miami Herald, Miller
said he regularly listed things that could go right for the
market -- inflation remaining low or oil prices dropping -- and
things that could go wrong, such as trade wars or rising
interest rates. He then assigned probability percentages to each
contingency to come up with an actionable forecast.  Eric Thomas Miller was born on April 26, 1928, in
Bronxville,  New York , the son of James D. and Helen Miller. His
father was an accountant and served as mayor of Bronxville.  Chemical Bank  He graduated from  Dartmouth College , in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , in 1950, then served in  Korea  with the U.S. Marine
Corps. He did graduate studies in business administration at  New
York University  but didn’t complete his master’s degree, his
wife said.  He began his career in 1955 at New York Trust Co., a
predecessor of Chemical Bank. He spent 13 years at Dominick &
Dominick Inc., serving as head of investments and director of
research, then became chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer
Capital, a unit of New York-based  Oppenheimer & Co. (OPY)   Miller worked at DLJ’s Manhattan headquarters until 1995,
when he and his wife moved to California. He stepped down as
chief investment officer in 1998, remaining until 2002 as an
adviser to DLJ and then to Credit Suisse Group, which bought DLJ
in 2000.  Along with his wife of 33 years, survivors include his
first wife, Eileen Stuhlreyer, and the three children they had
together, Kathy Beinfield, Eric J. Miller and Carolyn Bednarz; a
brother, Don; 11 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  