-- Merkel Says Europe Can’t Just Rest on Its Renaissance Laurels
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/merkel-says-europe-can-t-just-rest-on-its-renaissance-laurels.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said she isn’t to blame for the euro area’s north-south split
during the debt crisis, saying  Europe  must be hauled up through
reforms to make it globally competitive.  Merkel, responding to audience questions in a live ARD TV
broadcast yesterday in the western city of Moenchengladbach less
than two weeks before elections, said that it wasn’t enough to
dwell on Europe’s past achievements such as the Renaissance.
Countries can only become “strong” if they modernize and stay
innovative, not by means of debt sharing, Merkel said.  “It’s better that we’re strict with each other and I think
that we’re making progress here,” Merkel said. “This is my
approach and you can say that I’m doing all these things because
I’m really a European at heart. In the  Cold War , I sat behind
the Wall.”  Merkel, whose lead over her Social Democratic challenger
 Peer Steinbrueck  is narrowing before the Sept. 22 vote, said
German solidarity with troubled euro nations like  Greece  must
come in tandem with Greek reforms. She again rejected creating
euro bonds or a debt redemption fund as means to aid indebted
single currency states.  “My concern is that we in Europe are so accustomed to
being the leading group of this world that we don’t even see how
other countries are catching up,” Merkel said. “I don’t want
us to be a continent in the end where one looks and travels to
and says ‘let’s see what these Renaissance buildings look like,
let’s look at where the first car was built,’ and everything
that’s modern, that’s innovative, that’s great and advances
mankind happens elsewhere.”  Sounding Alarm  As the race tightens, Merkel and her  Christian Democratic
Union  are sounding the alarm over a possible SPD-led coalition
that includes the anti-capitalist Left Party, the successor to
former East Germany’s communists that wants to nationalize all
big banks, ban hedge funds and raise taxes.  In a Sept. 8 weekly  Emnid poll for Bild am Sonntag 
newspaper, 50 percent of those polled said they want Merkel as
chancellor compared with 35 percent who favored Steinbrueck.
While Merkel’s popularity dropped two points, Steinbrueck’s
increased seven points.  In a separate weekly INSA poll for Bild-Zeitung newspaper
published yesterday, Merkel’s pro-market Free Democrat coalition
partner fell one point to 4 percent, below the 5 percent
threshold needed to win seats in parliament. INSA is  the only
polling company among seven  that has the FDP below 5 percent
support.  Greens Fall  While backing for the CDU and its Christian Social Union
Bavarian sister party held at 39 percent, Steinbrueck’s SPD
gained one point to 28 percent. The Greens party dropped two
points to 11 percent and the Left Party held at 8 percent
support.  Bild said INSA surveyed 2,132 voters Sept. 6-9, without
providing details on the margin of error. German voters cast
ballots for members of parliament and parties and don’t directly
elect the chancellor.  The vote “will be very close,” Merkel said in a speech at
a rally in Dusseldorf on Sept. 8.  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister, says the
chancellor failed to address the rich-poor gap as the economy
rebounded and is responsible for domestic inaction that has
resulted in a “standstill.”  While Merkel is leaving voters in the dark as to where she
wants to lead the country, an SPD-led government would introduce
a flat-rate minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.27), enforce equal
pay for men and women as well as for temporary workers and
permanent staff, reform the pensions system, cap rent increases,
raise taxes for higher earners and put a brake on electricity
prices, Steinbrueck said Aug. 29.  Merkel is campaigning on her record of tackling the debt
crisis as well as her stewardship of the Germany economy, with
joblessness near a two-decade low and the budget balanced. Her
assertion that SPD and Greens plans to raise taxes on the
wealthier would harm the economy is disputed by Steinbrueck, who
says a majority of voters would be better off and the extra
revenue would be used to employ more teachers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  