-- EU Renews Bank-Failure Fight as Merkel Faces Voters: Euro
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-09T08:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/eu-renews-bank-failure-fight-as-merkel-faces-voters-euro.html
European Union finance ministers are
resuming the fight over rules for failing lenders as they
struggle to advance bank-union plans against German resistance
that has hardened during the country’s election campaign.  Finance chiefs  will meet in Vilnius,  Lithuania , on Sept.
13-14, a week before German voters choose their next chancellor,
to wrestle over how to handle the banking industry, with some
countries seeking to preserve regulatory control and others
trying to shield themselves from cross-border liabilities.  The government of German leader  Angela Merkel  has pushed
back against a proposal by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, for a single resolution mechanism to complement
common bank oversight by the  European Central Bank . The Barnier
plan, announced in July, would create a 55 billion-euro ($72
billion) common fund and give the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, the final say on when to close banks.  “There is no plan B,” Barnier said on Aug. 29. “It’s
urgent that we deliver this second pillar of the banking union,
which the euro area needs for its stability.”  Ministers meet against the backdrop of rising government
borrowing costs as the euro-area economy emerges from a  record-long recession .  Germany ’s 10-year yield reached 2.04 percent on
Sept. 5, the highest level since March 2012. That same day,
 France  paid the most to borrow for 10 years -- an average of
2.57 percent -- since President  Francois Hollande  was elected.  Credit Risk  Bank credit risk has improved amid the economic recovery.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps on the
senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell to a 21-month
low of 121 basis points in January from 357.5 basis points in
November 2010. It fell 5 basis points to 141 basis points at
9:25 a.m. in  London .  Germany has emerged as the main obstacle to a full-fledged
banking union, a plan announced by EU leaders in June 2012, by
objecting to any kind of risk-pooling without changes to the
bloc’s fundamental laws. The European Commission says delays
could reignite the financial crisis that forced five of the  euro
zone ’s 17 nations to seek international aid.  EU countries have begun negotiations with the European
Parliament on legislation that sets common standards for
national bank-shutdown plans, including rules on when and how
bank investors would be forced to take losses. Finance ministers
forged a common position on the bill in June. The proposed
single resolution mechanism would build on these rules.  Absorbing Losses  The debate over who shuts down failing banks and who
absorbs losses, which also encompasses the single resolution
mechanism, has shown the common ground between German scepticism
about sharing risk and a French aversion to ceding too much
sovereignty over their domestic banking market.  “There is an unholy alliance on banking union between
France and Germany,” said Sven Giegold, a German member of the
European Parliament who has been involved in banking union
legislation.  “France doesn’t want to lose national discretion in its
rulemaking, while the Germans don’t want to share any financial
responsibility between national banking systems,” he said.
“They want to have shared power but no shared financial
responsibility, and that is the antithesis of democracy.”  Common bank supervision is the first leg of the banking
union project, which leaders introduced to break the cycle of
contagion between banking losses and sovereign debt woes. Now
that a deal has been struck on ECB oversight, nations must press
ahead to forge a strategy on how to shut down failing banks and
protect depositors to keep the project from collapsing.  ECB’s Role  The Frankfurt-based ECB is on track to take up its full
bank-supervision duties in October 2014, Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem said on Sept. 5 in his role as chief of the
group of euro-area finance ministers.  “The interests of the euro zone are of course massive in
this project,” he said.  This timetable depends on final approval by the European
Parliament, which is tentatively scheduled to vote on the
legislation tomorrow. If the bill passes, the ECB would step up
preparations for its oversight role.  The ECB will conduct a broad-based balance sheet review
during the transition period to the new supervisory system, and
bank officials have warned that the EU must have a plan to cover
any shortfalls that emerge.  “Backstops need to be in place before the assessment has
begun,” ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said on Aug. 29.
“Put simply, if there are no backstops, there will be no
assessment.”  Bank Assessments  Dijsselbloem said that if the ECB finds shortfalls in its
bank assessments, institutions will first have to seek
additional capital from private investors. After that, nations
must apply new state-aid rules that require some private
investors to absorb losses, before turning to national bank-resolution funds or other assistance programs.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said the euro area needs a
backstop system, without dictating whether it needs to be a
truly common approach or a network of national resources. He
signalled in June that the solution could involve the direct
recapitalization tool in development for the currency zone’s
firewall fund.  “We at least want to make sure that there is an explicit
commitment by governments, by the European Stability Mechanism
and by the Eurogroup to provide a backstop” to deal with
capital shortfalls uncovered in the asset-quality reviews,
Draghi said.  Debt Burden  Direct bank aid from the ESM, the 17-nation euro zone’s
firewall fund, went hand in hand with the EU leaders’ commitment
to build a banking union and break the bank-sovereign link.
Germany has already won concessions that the new ESM tool won’t
be available until after the EU finishes work on national
standards for bank resolution and forced investor losses.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Aug. 29 that the
ESM isn’t something  Greece  should count on as the nation seeks
to fix its banks and reduce its debt burden in order to secure
an infusion of bailout cash.  The ESM’s ceiling for direct bank recapitalizations is 60
billion euros, and “those who know the figures are aware that
the entire capacity of the ESM would be used up very quickly if
it was used for the retroactive recapitalization of banks in the
program countries,” Schaeuble said.  ‘Very Difficult’  Direct aid to banks from the ESM will be “very difficult”
during the transitional period, Dijsselbloem said. “One of the
conditions for the use of direct recap from the ESM is that the
supervisory work by the ECB has already started, and it doesn’t
start until October next year, so we also have a problem of time
and phasing here.”  The ESM debate ties directly to Germany’s fears about the
legal basis for a joint resolution system, said Guntram Wolff,
director of the Brussels-based Bruegel research group. He said
German politicians are wary that the system might be vulnerable
to challenges at Germany’s constitutional court or in the
 European Court  of Justice, or struck down in national courts if
challenged by the creditors of a failed bank.  “The political concern is that the introduction of a
single resolution mechanism will be used as a way to offload all
the legacy problems of the banking union on the ESM,” Wolff
said. “It’s a real concern in the  finance ministry  and it’s a
very real concern across all parties in the Bundestag.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  