-- European Stocks Little Changed on Chinese Export Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-09T15:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/european-stock-index-futures-advance-before-syria-vote.html
European stocks  were little changed
after their biggest weekly advance since April, as Chinese
exports rose more than expected and investors awaited a U.S.
decision this week on possible air strikes against Syria.  BG Group Plc retreated 5.1 percent as the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer said output next year will fall
short of its estimates.  Vallourec (VK)  SA climbed 3.6 percent after
Kepler Cheuvreux upgraded the producer of steel pipes for the
oil-and-gas industry.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.1 percent to 305.84 at
the close of trading. The gauge advanced 0.5 percent on Sept. 6
as investors assessed whether the  Federal Reserve  will reduce
its monthly bond purchases after data showed the  U.S. economy 
added fewer jobs last month than expected. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index rose 1.4 percent today as Japanese shares closed at a one-month high after  Tokyo  won its bid to host the 2020 Olympics.  “Despite some reasonable Chinese economic data and the
boost to Japanese markets following its successful Olympic bid,
European shares remain under some pressure due to the ongoing
uncertainties of the situation in Syria and the increasing
likelihood of U.S. quantitative-easing tapering,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in  London ,
wrote in an e-mail. “Until such time that either or both of
these twin concerns are resolved or at least addressed, there is
likely to be a continuation of  risk aversion  from investors who
are unwilling to commit to the market unreservedly.”  Chinese Exports  China’s  exports  increased more in August than forecast and
inflation stayed below a government target. Overseas shipments
rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier, the  General Administration
of Customs  said in Beijing yesterday. That beat the 5.5 percent
median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Consumer
prices rose 2.6 percent, the statistics bureau said today.  President  Barack Obama  this week will seek to persuade a
skeptical Congress and a reluctant American public to support
air strikes against Syria. He failed to win backing from foreign
leaders at last week’s Group of 20 summit for military action in
response to a chemical weapons attack that his administration
said killed more than 1,400 people.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 10 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.2 percent,
while Germany’s DAX advanced less than 0.1 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 declined 0.3 percent.  BG fell 5.1 percent to 1,217 pence, its biggest drop since
October 2012. Turmoil in  Egypt  has delayed the West Delta Deep
Marine project and first production from the Knarr project in
 Norway  has been pushed back four months to the second half of
next year. The combined impact will shave 30,000 barrels a day
off next year’s production.  BG (BG/)  will also operate fewer rigs in
the U.S., reducing next year’s volumes by 17,000 barrels a day,
the Reading-based company said.  Utilities Decline  EON SE and RWE AG, Germany’s two biggest utilities, fell
1.7 percent to 12.49 euros and 1.6 percent to 22.91 euros,
respectively. Bank of America Corp. downgraded EON’s shares to
underperform, similar to a sell rating, from neutral, citing
“misplaced optimism” and the likelihood of lower power prices.  HSBC Holdings Plc cut its projected price targets on EON
and RWE’s shares to 10 euros and 18 euros, respectively, saying
the harsh trading environment will continue.  A gauge of  utility companies  posted the fourth-worst
performance of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Munich Re  jumped 3.1 percent to 139.20 euros. Bank of
America upgraded the world’s biggest reinsurer from neutral to
buy, citing the recent “overdone” share-price weakness, its
strong capital position and lower exposure to catastrophe
reinsurance relative with its peers. Shares have lost 12 percent
since reaching their highest price in more than 10 years on
April 25.  Vallourec Upgraded  Vallourec rose 3.6 percent to 47.77 euros after Kepler
Cheuvreux upgraded the shares to buy from hold, citing
significant price hikes by its U.S. competitors.  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  advanced 2.8 percent to 135.85 euros as
the French luxury goods maker announced that it has entered into
a forward purchase agreement with an authorized financial
intermediary to buy a maximum 550,000 of its own shares.  K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash distributor, rose 8.2
percent to 20.35 euros, its highest price since OAO Uralkali,
the largest producer of the crop fertilizer, quit a production
cartel to increase output.  The Russian edition of Forbes Magazine reported that
billionaires  Mikhail Gutseriev  and Vladimir Evtushenkov may bid
for a 22 percent stake in Uralkali owned by Suleiman Kerimov,
which could result in a change of strategy at the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  