-- Hewlett-Packard Says Polish Regulators Join Bribery Probe
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2013-09-09T20:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/hewlett-packard-says-polish-regulators-join-bribery-probe.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
second-biggest personal-computer maker, said Polish
investigators joined a probe by U.S. regulators into potential
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the company.  The Polish Anti-Corruption Bureau, along with the U.S.
Department of Justice and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, are looking into “public-sector transactions”
involving an employee of Hewlett-Packard’s Polska unit,
according to a regulatory  filing  today.  The agencies are also investigating “public-sector
transactions” in Russia, Mexico and other countries that
weren’t named, according to the filing. The Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, or FCPA, outlaws bribing foreign officials.
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Hewlett-Packard’s largest
competitor in the computer-services business, is also the target
of an investigation by the Polish agency and the Justice
Department over “allegations of illegal activity” by a former
employee in  Poland , according to a filing in July.  “While our understanding is that no current HP employees
are suspects in this case, we are fully cooperating with
authorities,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, wrote in an e-mail.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of database software,
agreed to pay $2 million last year to settle SEC claims that it
violated the FCPA.  Hewlett-Packard, which trails only  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  among
PC makers,  rose  less than 1 percent to $22.36 at the close in
New York, leaving the shares up 57 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  