-- Mexican Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Expected on Farm Costs
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-09-09T13:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/mexican-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-expected-on-farm-costs.html
Mexican consumer prices rose less
than expected in August amid muted increases in farm costs, with
the  annual inflation rate  dropping to the lowest level since
January.  Prices rose 0.28 percent from July, the national statistics
agency said today on its website, compared with the median
forecast for an increase of 0.33 percent from 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Annual inflation was 3.46 percent, compared
with 3.47 percent in July, remaining below the 4 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s target range. Core prices, which
exclude energy and farm costs, increased 0.09 percent, less than
the 0.11 percent median projection.  Mexican policy makers surprised analysts by cutting their
benchmark interest rate for the second time this year on Sept.
6, saying the economy experienced a significant and unexpected
slowdown in the second quarter. Banco de  Mexico  reduced the
overnight lending rate by 25 basis points to a record-low 3.75
percent after the annual  inflation rate  fell in each of the
previous three months amid easing agricultural prices.  “The weakening of Mexico’s economic activity intensified
significantly during the second quarter,” the bank said in a
statement accompanying its decision. “This weakening occurred
faster and deeper than anticipated.”  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 13.1754 per U.S. dollar at
8:06 a.m. in Mexico City. The currency has lost 2.5 percent
against the greenback this year.  Risks Intensified  The central bank said in its statement that economic risks
have intensified and growth next year will probably be less than
it forecast in the quarterly inflation report on Aug. 7. In that
report, Banxico projected growth would be 3.2 percent to 4.2
percent next year.  Policy makers on Sept. 6 said that idle capacity in the
economy may persist for a long time.  While the peso may weaken further and contribute more to
inflation if the U.S. Federal Reserve starts tapering its $85
billion of monthly asset purchases, it should have a limited
effect on consumer prices, the central bank said on Sept. 6.  Banxico surprised analysts on March 9 by cutting its  key
borrowing rate  by 0.5 percentage point, the first adjustment
since July 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  