-- Mexico Bill Would Reduce Pemex Tax Burden, Increase Mining Take
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-09T23:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/mexico-bill-would-reduce-pemex-tax-burden-increase-mining-take.html
Mexico ’s proposed tax bill would
reduce the burden on Petroleos Mexicanos to provide the world’s
fifth-largest crude producer more flexibility as output
declines, while increasing mining royalties to improve
government revenues.  President Enrique Pena Nieto’s tax proposal would modernize
the relationship between the government and Pemex, as the state-run company is known, by replacing a hydrocarbons tax with
income taxes, dividend payments and royalties similar to that of
private companies, according to the legislation. The bill would
also increase mining royalties by imposing a 7.5 percent tax
over earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and
amortization, plus a 0.5 percent tax on sales for gold, silver
and platinum.  Pemex, which funds about a third of the  federal budget , is
heading toward its ninth straight year of declining output as
production from the Cantarell field has plummeted more than 80
percent since 2004. Pena Nieto proposed a bill last month that
would modify two constitutional articles to allow private
companies to pump crude in Mexico for the first time since 1938.  “The proposal provides flexibility to the fiscal burden,
adjusting to the uncertain conditions of prices, costs and
operative challenges faced daily by Pemex,” the tax legislation
says. “The new fiscal regimen will permit Pemex to receive
treatment equivalent to any other company.”  Pemex’s 2014 capital expenditures budget proposal was for
358 billion pesos ($27 billion), a 9.8 percent increase from the
326 billion this year. The budget proposal, which was submitted
to congress yesterday, must be approved by lawmakers by Nov. 15.  Mining Royalties  Mexico is one of only a few countries that does not charge
mining royalties. The current mining tax brings in only 0.6% of
total sales mineral sales and provides “practically nothing”
in terms of government revenues, according to the legislation.  “The increase in mineral prices at the international level
have not generated a significant increase in the resources
available to the state for exploitation,” the legislation says.
Mexico’s sales revenues from mining are much smaller than other
countries that charge more for royalties, according to the bill.  Mining fell 1.8 percent in the first six months of the year
compared to the same period 2012. Mining companies Industrias
Penoles SAB and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  would suffer the most should the
legislation pass, while Grupo Mexico SAB would be less affected
due to its activities outside of the sector, according to an e-mailed report by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  