-- Facebook Unveils Tools for Showing Posts About TV News
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-09T17:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/facebook-unveils-tools-for-showing-posts-about-tv-news.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is rolling out new
tools that integrate posts from the world’s most popular social
network with television broadcasts, stepping up competition with
rival Web companies.  News organizations such as  CNN  and NBC’s Today Show will be
able to display real-time comments from Facebook users and
companies that have designated their posts as public, the
company  said  today. The features will also offer aggregated
information on what’s generally being discussed on the social
network based on gender, age and location.  Facebook is looking to extend its reach into media as it
battles the growing popularity of services such as Twitter Inc.,
which already is a popular way for TV viewers to share comments
during broadcasts. Twitter’s users can increase TV ratings by
posting their thoughts while a show is on air, researcher
Nielsen found in a study last month.  “We are committed to building features that improve the
experience of discovering and participating in conversations
about things happening in the world right now, including
entertainment, sports, politics and news,” Justin Osofsky,
Facebook’s vice president of media partnerships and online
operations, said in a blog post.  The partnerships included in the rollout include Buzzfeed,
NBC and Slate.  Hashtags, Photos  Facebook has been debuting more products, including some
made popular on Twitter, to highlight what people are saying or
posting. Earlier this year, the company announced hashtags to
make it easier to find content on the site. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based company also introduced a service that makes it
simpler to embed photos from Instagram across the Web.  Separately, Yahoo! Inc.  announced  a new video-based mobile
application that will make it simpler for consumers to find
content from the Web portal. The Yahoo Screen application,
designed for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices,
lets users easily access Yahoo’s channels. The company has
landed partnerships with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  for clips from  Comedy
Central ’s shows, along with content from Saturday Night Live.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  