-- FDIC to Sell $2.42 Billion of Citigroup Debt to End Stake
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-09T16:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/fdic-to-sell-2-42-billion-of-citigroup-debt-to-end-rescue-stake.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
is selling $2.42 billion of bonds issued by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in a
transaction that will eliminate U.S. government holdings in the
bank linked to the 2008 financial crisis.  Citigroup exchanged the subordinated notes due 2025 and
2043 to the FDIC for other securities used to pay the government
for $301 billion of asset guarantees, the New York-based bank
said today in a regulatory filing. Citigroup won’t receive any
proceeds from the resale to the public.  The 12-year notes may yield about 265 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries and the 30-year debt may pay a
relative yield of about 285 basis points, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The offering is the latest step to end taxpayer support for
Citigroup, which took more bailout assistance than any other
U.S. lender.  “When the transaction concludes, no U.S. government entity
will continue to hold any securities in Citi issued as a result
of the financial crisis,” Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the
lender, said by e-mail. “We remain very appreciative of the
support provided by the U.S. Treasury, FDIC and American
taxpayer during the financial crisis and are pleased that their
investment realized a return of more than $13 billion.”  Citigroup issued a combined $7.06 billion in preferred
shares to the FDIC and the Treasury as consideration for the
loss-sharing protection, provided to help shore up investor
confidence in the bank during the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. The Treasury said in February that it
expected to receive $894 million in proceeds from a similar
offering.  David Barr , a spokesman at the FDIC, declined to comment on
the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  