-- Fed’s Williams Says Monetary Policy May Lead to Asset Bubbles
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/fed-s-williams-says-monetary-policy-may-lead-to-asset-bubbles.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams, who has backed record
stimulus, said policy sometimes may unintentionally create asset
price bubbles in ways not predicted by economic models.  “We need to acknowledge that investors and financial
markets do not behave the way rational asset price theory
implies,” Williams said in the text of prepared remarks in San
Francisco today. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  “The policy response to cyclical movements in economic
activity and inflation may have effects on investor beliefs and
the behavior of asset prices that reach well into the future,”
he said to the National Association for Business Economics.  Williams said last week comments by Fed officials in recent
months over a possible reduction in the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond buying may have “ended what was
starting to become bubble-like behavior.” The Fed at a Sept.
17-18 meeting will probably taper monthly purchases to $75
billion, according to the median estimate of 34 economists
surveyed on Sept. 6.  Some policy makers, including Kansas City Fed President
Esther George, have warned about possible asset price bubbles,
saying the bond buying program puts financial stability at risk.
George has dissented this year against all five decisions by the
Federal Open Market Committee to step up accommodation.  “The lesson from history is clear: asset price bubbles and
crashes are here to stay,” Williams said. “And the events of
the past decade demonstrate the enormous human costs of asset
price bubbles and crashes.”  Williams today didn’t discuss the economy or the outlook
for monetary policy in his prepared remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  