-- Fed’s Williams Says Data Show Gradually Improving Job Market
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-09T18:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/fed-s-williams-says-data-signal-gradually-improving-job-market.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who has backed record
stimulus, said recent economic data signal gradual job market
improvement in line with his expectations.  The “latest data” is “consistent with the forecast that
I’ve had for the  U.S. economy  of gradual improvement and doesn’t
change my particular views” on policy, Williams said to
reporters today after a speech in San Francisco. “We are
continuing to get closer to this marker of substantial
improvement” in the labor market, said Williams, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year.  The U.S. economy added 169,000 jobs in August, less than
forecast, and revisions to prior reports subtracted a total of
74,000 jobs to payrolls in the previous two months, the Labor
Department said on Sept. 6. Fed policy makers are debating when
to begin dialing back their $85 billion in  monthly bond
purchases  aimed at stoking economic growth and combatting
unemployment, now at 7.3 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which plans to meet
Sept. 17-18, has pledged to press on with asset purchases until
the job market shows signs of substantial improvement.  “I still see signs of pretty good, solid increases in jobs
in the U.S.,” Williams said to reporters. The FOMC will
probably adopt a gradual, “multi-step” plan for tapering bond
buying, he said.  Taper Buying  The August jobs data didn’t derail economists’ expectations
for the FOMC to taper bond buying by $10 billion at its meeting
next week, according to the median response in a Bloomberg
survey after the Sept. 6 release of the report.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries closed at 3 percent on
Sept. 5, the highest since 2011, on investor speculation the Fed
will soon taper. The yield on the  benchmark 10-year Treasury
note  declined 0.04 percentage point to 2.9 percent at 2:08 p.m.
in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to
1,670.13.  The recent rise in longer-term  interest rates  stems partly
from comments about tapering bond purchases by Fed officials,
including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , which deflated expectations
the FOMC will continue its buying indefinitely, Williams said in
response to an audience question.  The fading of “froth” in the  bond market  is “healthy,”
he said at the annual National Association for Business
Economics conference.  The central bank probably won’t start raising the main
interest rate until the second half of 2015 even though
unemployment probably will have already declined to 6.5 percent,
Williams said to reporters.  The FOMC has pledged to keep the benchmark interest rate at
zero at least as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent and
the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  