-- Fiat Chief Skips Frankfurt Show on Unforeseen Commitments
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-09T09:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/fiat-chief-skips-frankfurt-show-on-unforeseen-commitments.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marchionne will not attend the International Auto Show in
Frankfurt, Europe’s biggest auto event, because of “unforeseen
business commitments,” the automaker said.  This marks the first time in recent years that Marchionne,
61, will not attend a major car show in the region. Chairman
John Elkann will also not be in Frankfurt, Fiat said.  The Italian carmaker, which controls Chrysler Group LLC,
isn’t showing any new models from its mass-market brands at the
show as Marchionne holds back on investments in the midst of the
sixth straight annual decline in European auto demand. The CEO
instead is pushing production of more upscale cars from the
Maserati and Alfa Romeo nameplates, which will come to market in
the coming years, to export from  Italy .  Marchionne canceled two press events tomorrow and is
unlikely to attend a meeting of the ACEA industry group, which
he currently heads, on Sept. 11, Fiat said.  Marchionne lowered his profit forecast for Chrysler in July
by as much as 13 percent because of the U.S. carmaker’s spending
to roll out vehicles such as a new version of the Jeep Cherokee.
That puts pressure on Fiat to reduce losses in Europe to meet a
full-year target range for group trading profit, or earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time items, of 4 billion euros to
4.5 billion euros.  Missing Targets  The Turin-based automaker will post 2013 trading profit of
3.88 billion euros, 120 million euros lower than the bottom end
of the automaker’s target, according to the average of 11
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Italian carmaker may report 87.6 billion euros in
revenue this year, according to the average of 20 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a company’s
forecast of 88 billion euros to 92 billion euros.  “We expect them to miss the trading profit target and
revenue targets due a shortfall in their performance in  Brazil 
and at Chrysler,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst at ISI Group in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in  Frankfurt  at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  