-- Futile Treatments Given Some Intensive-Care Patients
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-09-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/futile-treatments-given-some-intensive-care-patients.html
Some intensive-care patients receive
expensive treatments that don’t prolong life while increasing
pain and suffering, a study found.  About 11 percent of critical-care patients at the
University of  California , Los Angeles, health-care system
received what researchers termed futile treatment, the majority
dying within six months while still in the hospital, according
to a study released today in  JAMA Internal Medicine . The cost of
treatment was $2.6 million over three months, researchers said.  Today’s findings are the first to look at how pervasive
futile medical treatments are for critical-care patients and the
costs of those treatments, said  Neil Wenger , a senior study
author. The findings don’t mean that doctors should withhold
treatment and end patients’ lives, just that patients and
families should have end-of-life discussions in advance of care
to help guide treatment, he said.  “It ought to be a wakeup call for people who use medical
care, for people who would like us to use medical care better
and to better target the treatments we have available,” Wenger,
a professor of medicine at UCLA and director of the UCLA Health
Ethics Center, said today in a telephone interview. “This
requires a willingness to talk about death and confronting
prognosis and these are really hard things to do. Doctors can
tell when they’re providing futile treatment and yet the forces
that are out there, either inertia or difficult conversations or
families wanting to not stop, prevent them from reorienting
toward palliation.”  He said not treating these patients won’t reduce hospitals’
health bills because those patients would just be replaced by
other potentially sicker patients.  Surveying Doctors  The researchers used a survey to ask critical-care doctors
at five intensive-care units for three months to assess if their
patients were receiving futile treatment or probably futile
treatment. The authors analyzed about 6,900 assessments on 1,125
patients.  They found that 123 patients, or 11 percent, received
futile treatment, 98 patients, or 8.6 percent, received probably
futile treatment and 904 patients, or 80 percent, received
necessary treatment.  Treatments were considered futile if the burden of care
outweighed its benefits, the patient’s goals couldn’t be
achieved, which varied by patient, death was imminent, the
patient couldn’t survive outside of the intensive-care unit and
the patient was permanently unconscious.  Ethically Challenging  Decisions over unnecessary medical care are the top reason
for ethics consultations in hospitals today,  Robert Truog  wrote
in an editorial accompanying the study. Many hospitals have
policies in place that use a hospital ethics committee to make
decisions rather than the treating doctors when families or
patients ask for care that’s considered futile.  “This isn’t about saying no to families,” Truog, a
professor of medical ethics at Harvard Medical School in  Boston ,
said today in a telephone interview. “This is about really
helping patients and families have a better idea of what they
really want.”  More studies are needed to find better ways for doctors and
nurses to talk about end of life in a way that gets families and
patients to listen, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  