-- Gates Joins Researchers in Winning Lasker Science Prizes
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-09T17:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/gates-joins-researchers-in-winning-lasker-science-prizes.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman Bill Gates
and his wife, Melinda, three developers of implants that help
the deaf hear, and two brain scientists have won Lasker Awards
for their advances in medical research and public service.  The Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation announced the winners
of the $250,000 awards today in a statement. The prizes will be
presented in New York on Sept. 20.  The clinical research prize was given to Graeme M. Clark,
Ingeborg Hochmair and Blake S. Wilson for development of the
modern cochlear implant, a device that enabled hearing in the
deaf and for the first time restored one of the five senses in a
person through medicine. Richard H. Scheller and Thomas C.
Sudhof won the basic science prize for research that discovered
how brain cells communicate with each other using
neurotransmitters.  “All five winners embarked on undertakings that required a
remarkable degree of technical courage,” Alfred Sommer, the
Lasker foundation’s chairman, said of the research winners.
“Both lines of inquiry opened up entire new worlds. Scheller
and Sudhof revealed unprecedented detail about how brain cells
send messages to one another, and Clark, Hochmair, and Wilson
cracked the sound barrier for people with severe hearing
problems.”  The Gateses were given the foundation’s public service
prize for leading philanthropy efforts totaling more than $26
billion. The Microsoft  chairman  and his wife founded the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation, and have attacked some of the world’s
biggest public health problems, including nutrition, infection
and hunger. They also underwrote the GAVI Alliance, a vaccine
development and administration coalition.  Science Winners  Scheller, who is head of research and early development at
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech biotechnology unit, and Sudhof, a
researcher at the Stanford University School of Medicine began
their work on brain-cell signaling in the 1980s. They discovered
how neurons use calcium to communicate between cells, a key to
understanding memory and learning, said the foundation.  The clinical research prize given to Clark, Hochmair and
Wilson for development of the modern cochlear implant, drew from
the researchers work on understanding how tiny hairs in the ear
canal transmit electrical signals that the brain understands as
sound. Those hairs can be damaged or missing, though, causing
deafness.  Clark and Hochmair’s device restored some hearing, and
Wilson, co-director of the Duke University Hearing Center,
created a method to improve the processing of sound and help
deaf people understand speech again without having to read lips.
Now, using a cochlear implant, previously deaf or hearing-damaged people can use a cell phone and follow conversations,
said the foundation. Clark is an emeritus professor at the
University of  Melbourne , Hochmair is the founder of MED-EL GmbH,
a closely held hearing implant manufacturer.  The Lasker prizes have been awarded since 1945 by the
Lasker Foundation, which was founded in 1942. The New York-based
foundation recognizes the contributions of scientists,
physicians and others who have made major advances in the
understanding, diagnosis or treatment of disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  