-- Gervais Gets Kinder in ‘Derek’: Billie Jean King: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/gervais-gets-kinder-in-derek-billie-jean-king-tv.html
In Netflix’s tender-hearted dramedy
“ Derek ,” an elderly friend tells Ricky Gervais’s mentally 
challenged title character that it’s “more important to be kind
than clever.”  Sweet advice for life, but does it apply to sitcoms?  “Derek” suggests it does -- in the right hands.  When it debuted on British TV last January, some critics saw
mean-spirited derision in Gervais’s badly hair-cut Derek.  That complaint seems wildly off base and may have had less
to do with “Derek” than with the comedian’s crude use of an
epithet for the handicapped in previous stand-up routines.  If anything, “Derek” seems like an exercise in repentance,
as Gervais (writing, directing and starring) presents the
lovable character with such saintliness that the show routinely
risks condescension.  But “Derek” mostly succeeds, both in its “The Office”-style
comedy and lump-in-your-throat generosity.  In the faux-documentary format that Gervais popularized,
“Derek” is set in a small, middle-income residence for the
elderly.  His Derek Noakes is the home’s orderly and all-purpose
angel, a 49-year-old man who calls an ambulance for a dying bird
and quietly cries at the passing of each resident.  (“Derek” confronts that issue squarely and often, with death
a prominent plot point in two of the season’s seven 30-minute
episodes.)  Lucky Man  “I’m the luckiest man in the world,” he says, noting that
all of his “favoritest people” live or work at the home. Does it
need mentioning that a show unafraid to use “favoritest” isn’t
averse to some serious heart-tugging?  “Derek” mostly avoids preciousness by creating a credible
universe, with the cash-strapped nursing home an embattled oasis
of compassion in a callous world.  The elderly actors are refreshingly free of sitcom
stereotypes -- there’s not a cute, cantankerous curmudgeon in
sight.  Gervais plays Derek in broader fashion and relies a bit too
much on a mouth-twisting tic and the side-swept bangs. But when
“Derek” turns poignant, show and star stand leagues above
Gervais’s mockumentary imitators like the maudlin “ Modern
Family .”  “Derek” will be available Thursday, Sept. 12, on Netflix.
Rating: ****  Billie Jean  Billie Jean King wasn’t yet 12 when she spent $9.20 on a
tennis racket, then announced to her bemused parents that she
would become the best player in the world.  Other startling announcements would come later, some with
similarly larger-than-life ramifications (yep, she’s gay). All
are covered in PBS’s “American Masters” King profile.  Commemorating the 40th anniversary of King’s era-defining
battle-of-the sexes match against Bobby Riggs, the documentary
chronicles the high points ( Wimbledon  victories, feminist
milestones, the 2009 Presidential Medal of Freedom) and the low
(the 1981 palimony suit that outed her and decimated her
endorsement deals).  Despite her other accomplishments, King will inevitably be
remembered most for the Riggs match.  The stakes, she recalls, were much higher than the circus-like atmosphere suggested: With the 1972 Title IX legislation
barely a year old, conservative politicians were looking for any
excuse to disparage and defund female athletics.  Though it later sags a bit, the film builds to the Riggs
showdown with fine momentum, vividly resurrecting a time when
King and other female players were routinely questioned by
sportscasters about giving up the jock stuff and settling down.  No less a sports sage than Howard Cosell praised King upon
her entrance at the 1973 match in this way: If she’d only grow
her hair out and lose the eyeglasses, she could be as pretty as
a Hollywood star.  “American Masters: Billie Jean King” airs Tuesday, Sept. 10,
on PBS at 8 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and Washington
 Scene .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 