-- Gold Falls in London on Speculation Fed to Curb Stimulus
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-09-09T18:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/gold-declines-as-investors-expect-fed-to-press-on-with-tapering.html
Gold swung between gains and losses
in  New York  before settling little changed as investors weighed
signs that the  Federal Reserve  will curb stimulus this month
against the possibility of U.S. air strikes on  Syria .  While gold futures rose 1 percent on Sept. 6 after data
showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs than estimated in August,
the report wasn’t enough to derail economists’ expectations that
the Fed will pare stimulus measures. The central bank will taper
monthly bond purchases to $75 billion from the current $85
billion pace at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to the median
estimate of 34 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  on Sept. 6.  Bullion reached a three-month high of $1,434 an ounce on
Aug. 28 as demand surged since late June in  Asia  and amid
concern the U.S. will attack Syria for its alleged use of
chemical weapons against civilians. Gold is down 17 percent this
year as some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of
value and on speculation the Fed will curb stimulus.  “Heightened geopolitical tensions regarding Syria have
contributed to gold’s recent strength,”  Suki Cooper , an analyst
at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a report e-mailed today.
“Although the weaker-than-expected non-farm payrolls data
provided a boost to prices, our economists believe the report
was sufficient to greenlight a tapering of Fed asset purchases
this month.”  Gold futures for December delivery climbed less than 0.1
percent to close at $1,386.70 at 1:50 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices fell as much as 0.3 percent and rose as much as 0.6
percent. Trading was 54 percent below the average for the past
100 days for this time of day, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. Data  U.S. payrolls rose by 169,000 last month, less than the
180,000 estimate in a Bloomberg survey, Labor Department figures
showed on Sept. 6. U.S. reports released since late August
showed the economy expanded more than estimated in the second
quarter and a gauge of manufacturing climbed to a two-year high.  President  Barack Obama  will make a final push this week to
persuade Congress and the American public to support air strikes
against Syria. He failed to win backing from foreign leaders at
a Group of 20 summit for military action. The Senate is expected
to vote on a resolution by the end of this week, and the  House
of Representatives  will probably debate the proposal next week.  Holdings in  exchange-traded products  backed by gold fell 1
metric ton last week, after rising the previous three weeks,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge funds  and other large
speculators increased their net-long position, or bet on higher
prices, by 3.6 percent in the week ended Sept. 3 to 101,396
contracts, the most since January, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Silver futures for December delivery fell 0.7 percent to
$23.717 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery declined 0.8 percent to $1,483 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery slid 2 percent to $683
an ounce, the seventh drop in eight sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  