-- IBM Tells Retirees Health Contributions to Be Consistent
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/ibm-tells-retirees-medical-contributions-will-be-consistent-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , which is moving benefits for Medicare-eligible retirees
to a private health exchange, said its contribution to their
health care would be “consistent” with previous years.  As long as retirees enroll with the private insurance
exchange, IBM will subsidize their health-care premiums at a
similar level, the company said in a letter obtained by
Bloomberg. The money will come in the form of a health
reimbursement account, or HRA, IBM said.  “The aggregate amount of IBM’s contribution to benefits
will be consistent with previous years,” the Armonk, New York-based company said in the letter, signed by Chief Health
Director Kyu Rhee. “IBM will communicate your personal HRA
contribution amount starting in early October.”  The company said last week that it chose to move 110,000
retirees to an Extend Health exchange by Towers Watson, the
country’s largest private Medicare exchange. In the August
letter, IBM told the former employees that they will be able to
keep their current health providers and prescriptions in most
cases.  IBM, the world’s largest seller of computer services, is
among the biggest employers in the U.S. starting to move
retirees to exchanges where they select their own health plans,
a shift that could push more costs onto taxpayers.  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  said earlier this week it would move retirees to a
privately-run exchange, while  General Electric Co. (GE)  last year
said it would curb benefits, sending former employees to the
public exchanges created under the 2010 Affordable Care Act.  “IBM didn’t make this change to save money -- it does not
reduce our costs,”  Doug Shelton  said on Sept. 7. The company
capped its subsidies to retirees in the 1990s, he said.  The company is making the change to give former workers
more options, as it projects health care premiums and out-of-pocket charges to triple by 2020, Shelton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  