-- Ibovespa Approaches Bull Market as Vale Gain Outweighs OGX Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-09T15:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/ibovespa-approaches-bull-market-as-vale-gain-outweighs-ogx-drop.html
The Ibovespa approached a  bull
market  as better-than-forecast economic data in  China  boosted
Brazilian commodity exporters including iron-ore producer Vale
SA, outweighing a plunge by  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA .  Metalurgica Gerdau SA (GOAU3) , the parent of Latin America’s
biggest steelmaker, was the best performer on the MSCI
Brazil/Materials index. State-controlled oil producer Petroleo
Brasileiro SA rose to a two-week high. OGX weighed on the index
after founder  Eike Batista  challenged the oil producer’s
decision to exercise a put option requiring him to inject as
much as $1 billion into the company.  The Ibovespa climbed 0.6 percent to 54,085.67 at 12:12 p.m.
in Sao Paulo after rising to as high as 54,123.30. It was the
second session in which the benchmark advanced to 20 percent
above its July 3 bear market low in intraday trading.  “I see a better outlook for equities, as there are signs
that growth is picking up around the world,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a
partner at Orama Asset Management, said in a phone interview
from  Rio de Janeiro . “The Ibovespa suffers from what happens
with OGX, but if you take this one out, the trend is positive.”  In China, exports rose 7.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the General Administration of Customs said in Beijing.
That exceeded the 5.5 percent median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Inflation stayed below a government
target, according to the national statistics bureau.  Vale gained 2.3 percent to 32.93 reais,  contributing  the
most to the Ibovespa’s advance. A close at that price would be
the highest in four months. Metalurgica Gerdau rose 4.3 percent
to 21.89 reais. Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is also known,
climbed 1.4 percent to 18 reais.  OGX Sinks  OGX, the third-heaviest weighted stock on the benchmark
index, plunged 13 percent to 45 centavos. The stock surged 27
percent on Sept. 6 after the company called the  put option  that
Batista pledged last year.  “I reserve the rights provided to me by the contract and
law in the sense of questioning the circumstances, form,
content, legitimacy and other legal aspects of the intended
exercising of the option,” Batista wrote in a letter to OGX
disclosed in a regulatory filing today.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  rose 4.7 percent to 3.12 reais,
leading gains by homebuilders as a gain by the real eased
concern that a weaker currency will fuel inflation and prompt
policy makers to step up the pace of interest-rate increases.  Anhanguera, Pao de Acucar  The real strengthened 1 percent to 2.2844 per dollar.
Brazilian swap rates on contracts due in January 2015 fell nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 10.20 percent.  Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  dropped 1.3 percent
to 13.90 reais after Banco Itau BBA SA cut its recommendation on
the education company to the equivalent of hold. Cia. Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest retailer,
fell 1.1 percent to 97.50 reais as Abilio Diniz, son of the
company’s founder, resigned as  chairman .  The Ibovespa has dropped 21 percent in dollar terms this
year, compared with a decline of 7.9 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities in the
same period.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.67 billion
reais on Sept. 6, compared with a daily average of 7.72 billion
reais this year through Sept. 4, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  