-- Microsoft Windows Shuffle Said to Leave Leblond, DeVaan Out
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-09-09T20:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/microsoft-windows-shuffle-said-to-leave-leblond-and-devaan-out.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is shuffling the
management of its Windows division, a move that will leave
longtime executives Jon DeVaan and Antoine Leblond without
senior leadership roles, according to people with knowledge of
the changes.  Terry Myerson, who runs Windows and Windows Phone, is
reassigning executives in the newly joined software unit as part
of Microsoft’s companywide restructuring, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the moves haven’t been announced.
Henry Sanders, a Windows Phone executive, will lead development,
while Joe Belfiore, also from Windows Phone, will run a phone,
tablet and PC group, said one of the people.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, is
overhauling its top ranks as Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  nears retirement. Ballmer, who said last month he will
leave within a year, in July rolled out the largest change to
the company’s executive staff in more than a decade. Those
picked as unit leaders by Ballmer are now setting up their own
leadership teams.  Leblond had been in charge of lining up applications for
Windows 8, Microsoft’s new operating system, which was
criticized for lacking some popular apps when it went on sale in
October. More recently he worked on the Windows 8.1 update to
the software.  DeVaan, a 29-year Microsoft veteran, was a vice president
in Windows development. It’s not clear if the two will take on
positions elsewhere in the company, stay in Windows, or leave
altogeter, the people said.  Xbox Software  Myerson, whose team also develops software for the Xbox and
the Xbox Live online service, picked Xbox executive Marc Whitten
to run those businesses, and Chris Jones will keep his current
job overseeing Windows services, the people said.  The Windows changes were reporter earlier by the All Things
D blog. Tony Imperati, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  To bolster its struggling mobile business, Microsoft agreed
last week to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset business or $7.2 billion,
adding about 32,000 employees.  Microsoft will introduce new versions of its Surface tablet
at an event in New York on Sept. 23, according to an invitation
sent out by the company. While there has been speculation the
company might introduce a smaller Surface, no such device will
be unveiled at the event, said a person familiar with the
matter. Last quarter Microsoft took a $900 million charge
writedown on unsold Surface tablets.  The new products will include both a version for Intel
Corp. chips running Windows 8 and a version running Windows RT
on an Nvdia Corp. chip with  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology, the
person said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington ,  rose  1.6 percent
to $31.66 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  