-- Microsoft Expands Its Xbox Music to Android, Apple Devices
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-09T20:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/microsoft-expands-xbox-music-service-to-android-apple-devices.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is making its Xbox
Music service available on Android and iOS devices to compete
with  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iTunes, Spotify Ltd. and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)   The $9.99-a-month Xbox Music Pass, which provides
unlimited, advertising-free streaming, can be used today for the
first time on Apple iPhones and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, Scott Porter, principal program manager at
XBox Music, said in an interview.  The expansion gives Microsoft access to the biggest
smartphone platforms as it guns for the leaders in digital music
-- Spotify in subscription streaming, Pandora in Web radio, and
Apple’s iTunes for purchases. Microsoft introduced the service
in October on the Xbox 360 console and Windows 8 devices, saying
then it planned to add Android and iOS.  “Music needs to be something that freely connects between
devices for users to be happy,” Porter said. Windows users
“spent time curating and discovering new music and we need to
give them access wherever they are.”  Listeners can access Xbox Music on a smartphone, tablet,
Xbox 360 or the coming Xbox One video game console, Porter said.
A free, ad-supported online version allows tracks to be shared
with people who use an Apple PC, he said.  Microsoft, which is buying mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for
$7.2 billion, trails iOS and Android. Windows accounted for 3.6
percent of worldwide smartphones at the end of June, according
to Bloomberg Industries data. That compares with 79 percent for
Android and 13 percent for Apple.  New Xbox Music features will be introduced when Microsoft
starts selling Windows 8.1 in October, Porter said. One such
addition will be a Web Playlist tool that grabs all the music on
a Web page to create a list of songs, he said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, rose 1.6 percent
to $31.66 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 18
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  