-- Miliband ‘Determined’ to Distance Labour Party From U.K. Unions
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/miliband-determined-to-distance-labour-party-from-u-k-unions.html
U.K. opposition leader  Ed Miliband 
will say he remains determined to distance his  Labour Party  from
the trade unions that founded it more than a century ago.  Miliband will tell the Trades Union Congress annual
conference tomorrow that Labour’s future lies in engaging
directly with the members of unions, rather than relying on
their leaders to reflect their views.  Miliband said in July he no longer wanted unions to act as
intermediaries with the Labour Party. On Sept. 4, the GMB union
said it will cut the funding it gives Labour in membership dues
to 150,000 pounds ($236,000) from 1.2 million pounds a year.  “We have 3 million working men and women affiliated to
our party,” he will tell delegates in  Bournemouth, southern
 England , according to his office. “But the vast majority play
no role in our party. Change can happen. Change must happen. And
I’m absolutely determined that this change will happen.”  He will also say that Prime Minister  David Cameron , in his
dealings with unions, risks repeating the mistake of Republican
Presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who alienated a section of
the electorate in secretly recorded comments.  “We have a prime minister who writes you and your members
off,” Miliband will say. “Who doesn’t just write you off, but
oozes contempt for you from every pore. We know from recent
experience what happens to political leaders who write off whole
sections of a country. That’s what  Mitt Romney  did when he
talked about the 47 percent of people who would never vote for
him. And look what happened to him.”  Miliband is due to speak to at about 11.30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  