-- Time Inc. Said in Talks to Buy American Express Titles
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/time-inc-said-in-talks-to-buy-american-express-titles.html
Time Inc. (TWX) , the largest magazine
publisher in the U.S., is in advanced talks to buy  American
Express Co. (AXP) ’s publishing arm, including titles such as  Food &
Wine  and Travel + Leisure, according to an executive with direct
knowledge of the plans.  The discussions could still fall apart, according to the
person, who was speaking without authorization to talk publicly
about the sale and asked not to be identified. The person didn’t
say what price the companies were negotiating.  If the acquisition goes through, Time Inc. would also add
Departures, Black Ink and Executive Travel to its roster of  21
titles . The company is preparing to spin off from parent Time
Warner Inc. in the first quarter of 2014.  Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes
announced plans in March to separate the magazine unit -- the
company’s worst-performing  division  -- after a failed effort to
create a joint venture with  Meredith Corp. (MDP) , publisher of women’s
titles such as Ladies’ Home Journal.  In July, Bewkes named Joseph Ripp CEO of Time Inc. after a
four-month search.  “We have to reignite the spark at Time Inc.,” Ripp said
in an interview at the time. “There are lots of challenges, and
we need to identify the things we need to stop doing and
identify areas for growth.”  Enterprise Value  As a public company, projections for Time Inc.’s enterprise
value -- or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash -- range
from $2.7 billion to about $4.9 billion, according to six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg in July.  The New York Post  reported  earlier yesterday that Time Inc.
was in talks to pay less than $100 million for the American
Express publications.  Jane Lehman, a spokeswoman for Time Inc., declined to
comment on the talks. Marina Norville, a spokeswoman for
American Express, didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  Time Warner shares rose 1.3 percent to $62.24 at the close
in New York yesterday, taking their gain for the year to 30
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net  