-- Mining Magnate Palmer in Contention to Be Australia Lawmaker
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-09T07:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/mining-magnate-palmer-in-contention-to-become-australia-lawmaker.html
Australian mining magnate  Clive Palmer  led the vote count for the lower-house district of
Fairfax in his native Queensland state, putting him on course to
win a seat in the federal parliament after the Sept. 7 election.  Palmer was ahead with 53 percent of the vote on a two
party-preferred basis, against the Liberal National Party’s
candidate Ted O’Brien on 47 percent, according to the  Australian
Electoral Commission  website. His Palmer United Party may secure
as many as two places in the 76-seat Senate, with results for
the upper house -- where he fielded  18 candidates  -- also still
pending.  Palmer , 59, who owns a nickel refinery and plans an $8
billion gas project, said during the campaign that he was
seeking to become prime minister of the world’s 12th-largest
economy. While that prize was claimed by  Tony Abbott , who has so
far seen his Liberal-National coalition leading in 88 of the 150
lower-house districts, three places in parliament may give
Palmer some influence, according to Paul Strangio, a senior
lecturer in politics at  Monash University  in  Melbourne .  “Palmer’s party made up a lot of ground very quickly”
after being formed this year, Strangio said. “He looks to have
picked up disaffected Labor voters who weren’t prepared to move
to the coalition. His heavy advertising campaign seems to have
worked.”  Even so, “it’s still too early to be sure he’s won any
seats, and the surge in popularity may not be sustainable,”
Strangio said.  Titanic II  The owner of mining company Mineralogy Pty Ltd., who made
his fortune in real estate and by investing in mining tenements
that later proved lucrative, Palmer is building a full-scale
replica of the Titanic. His  election policies  included
abolishing the carbon price mechanism and mining profits tax
instigated by the outgoing Labor government and creating
incentives to encourage more onshore processing of the nation’s
resources.  “Our policy is to repeal the carbon tax and to refund the
money from the day it was introduced,” Palmer told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. today. “The coalition’s policy as
I understand it is to repeal the tax but not refund the money
raised by it,” he said. “We’ll support the repeal of the
mining tax because that costs us more money to administer than
it raises.”  In this election, he fielded candidates in every lower-house district, winning 5.6 percent of first-preference votes.
The Greens party, which holds the balance of power in the Senate
and was an ally of the former Labor government, secured 8.4
percent.  Dinosaur Park  Along with mining magnates  Gina Rinehart  and  Andrew Forrest , Palmer drew criticism last year from then-Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  who said they were threatening the nation’s
democratic process by using their wealth to seek to shape
policy. Palmer, a former member of the Liberal National Party in
Queensland, last year dropped plans to contest Swan’s seat in
the federal election.  Palmer has an agreement with Nanjing-based CSC Jinling
Shipyard to build a 21st-century replica of the Titanic. The
shipbuilder is also making four 64,000 deadweight tonne bulk
carriers for Palmer, whose investments have included golf
courses, hotels, a soccer team and a horse stud.  He has also  announced plans  to build the Palmer Coolum
Resort: Dinosaur Park, which will feature more than 150
mechanical dinosaurs at his Queensland golf resort. Last year he
claimed Greenpeace was being funded by the Central Intelligence
Agency to attempt to destroy  Australia ’s coal-mining industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Sydney at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  