-- Lira Surges to One-Week High as U.S. Sees ‘Small’ Syria Strike
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-09T13:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/lira-surges-to-one-week-high-as-u-s-sees-small-syria-strike.html
The lira strengthened to its highest
level in a week as the U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said
an “unbelievably small, limited” military strike will be
enough against  Syria ,  Turkey ’s neighbor.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.9 percent against the
dollar and traded up 0.4 percent to 2.0426 per dollar by 3:13
p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year benchmark notes dropped 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 9.30 percent, the
lowest level since Aug. 16 on a closing basis.  As the Congress prepared to debate a U.S. intervention,
Kerry sought to reassure the public the Obama administration
won’t let a Syrian campaign evolve into a years-long commitment
with ground troops, like the wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq .
Turkey’s central bank said it would sell a minimum $200 million
of liras today and refrain from holding a one-week repo auction
at its 4.5 percent benchmark interest rate as part of its so-called additional tightening measures.  “As it is seen, the USA is constantly showing an
indecisive stance and the risk of a military intervention is
lessening every day,” Burak Cetinceker, a portfolio manager at
Strateji Menkul Degerler A.S. in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed
comments.  The relative strength index of the lira fell to 26 on Sept.
5, below the 30 threshold level that to some technical analysts
signals the currency’s losses have been excessive and is due for
a rebound. The lira had been “oversold” against the dollar
because of “excessive risk-pricing” and now the market is
“normalizing,” Cetinceker said.  Lira Weakness  “We’re not talking about war, we’re not going to war,”
Secretary of State Kerry said in a press conference in  London 
today after a three-day mission to Europe.  The lira has weakened 8 percent versus the dollar in the
last three months in the biggest depreciation among the 24
emerging-market peers monitored by Bloomberg, after the
Indonesian rupiah and the Indian rupee.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly
said his country is willing to join any coalition that agrees on
taking military action against Assad’s government. Turkey’s army
is the second-largest in NATO, after the U.S.  Turkey, which has supported Syrian rebels against President
Bashar al-Assad, shares a border with Syria that stretches more
than 900 kilometers (560 miles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  