-- IRobot, Aroz Gandhi, FilmOn X: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/irobot-aroz-gandhi-filmon-x-intellectual-property.html
IRobot Corp. (IRBT) , the Bedford,
Massachusetts-based maker of the Roomba robotic vacuum cleaner,
said in a  statement  that a German court has issued an order
against two Chinese companies for infringing four European
patents.  The order, from the district court of Dusseldorf, was
against models of vacuum cleaner robots made by Shenzen  Silver
Star  Intelligent Technology Co, and Shenzen Silver Star
Intelligent Electronic Ltd., according to the statement. These
products were seized at the  IFA consumer electronics trade show 
in Berlin earlier this month.  IRobot made its request for an order based on the German
parts covered by the four European patents, according to the
statement.  Shenzen Silver Star didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail
seeking comment on the court order.  In June IRobot filed a patent infringement suit in the same
court against four companies it said were infringing its
European patents. The Chinese companies weren’t among the
defendants in that suit.  Google Receives U.S. Patent on Method Giving a Gift Tax-Free  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the world’s most used Internet
search engine, received a U.S. patent on what it calls “tax-free gifting.”  Patent 8,515,829 covers a method that enables the giver of
a gift of digital content such as film or music to determine the
amount of tax imposed by authorities in the recipient’s
location. The giver can then add the amount of tax to the gift.  The location of the taxing jurisdiction is determined based
on the Internet protocol address of the recipient’s device to
which the gift is transmitted, according to the patent.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , applied for the
patent in March 2011 with the assistance of  Washington ’s  Morris
& Kamlay LLP . The patent was issued Aug. 20, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ecuador Rejects ‘Ghandi’ Trademark, Was to Be Used as Rice Label  The Ecuadorian Institute for Intellectual Property has
rejected an application to register “Aroz Gandhi” as a
trademark, the Indian Education Diary news website  reported .  Lalit Bhasin  of  New Delhi  had opposed the registration,
saying it would be considered almost a blasphemy in  India  to try
to sell rice under the name of Mahatma Gandhi, who is considered
the father of his nation, according to Indian Education Diary.  The registry rejected the application, saying the use of
Ghandi’s image as part of the mark infringed the copyright for
the drawing, Indian Education Diary reported.  While Ecuador’s law related to personality rights is
relatively unformed in that country, the registry took note of
Bhasin’s arguments, and found that he had legal standing to
oppose the trademark’s registration, the website reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  FilmOn X Told to Stop Service in Court Win for TV Broadcasters  FilmOn X LLC was ordered to cease service by a federal
judge who said Fox Television Stations Inc. and other
broadcasters are likely to succeed in their lawsuit claiming the
online streaming company violates their copyrights.  “This court concludes that the Copyright Act forbids
FilmOn X from retransmitting plaintiff’s copyrighted programs
over the Internet,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer in
Washington wrote, granting the broadcasters request for a
preliminary injunction.  Collyer’s Sept. 5 ruling adds to a legal landscape of mixed
rulings for FilmOn X and other streaming services, including
rival Aereo Inc., backed by  Barry Diller .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  ruled against an
injunction that would have shut Aereo, which has a technology
similar to FilmOn X’s.  Lawyers for FilmOn X last month urged a San Francisco-based
federal appeals court to heed the New York ruling and overturn a
lower-court decision in California that granted broadcasters’
bid to shut down the service in the state.  If the California appeals panel upholds the lower-court
ruling, it will create a legal split between the two federal
circuits, which could lead to a Supreme Court review.  In her ruling, Collyer acknowledged the competing decisions
and said she found the California district judge’s opinion more
compelling.  Ryan Baker, an attorney for FilmOn X, said the company will
appeal Collyer’s ruling.  FilmOn X, based in Beverly Hills, California, and founded
by Alki David, argued that it isn’t infringing copyrights by
capturing broadcasters’ over-the-air signals with its small
remotely located antennas and retransmitting the programming to
its customers.  FilmOn X’s retransmissions occur “without the consent of
the affected broadcast stations or copyright owner” and are
thus illegal, according to Fox’s Washington complaint, which was
joined by other broadcasters including ABC, CBS and NBC.  The Washington case is Fox Television Stations Inc. v.
FilmOn X, 13-cv-00758, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Pier 1 Accused of Infringing Copyright to Solar Dancing Chicken  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR) , the Fort Worth, Texas-based importer
and retailer of gifts and household items, was sued for
copyright infringement by Fourstar Group USA Inc.  The suit, filed Sept. 6 in federal court in Tampa,  Florida ,
alleges a plastic, solar-powered item sold by Pier 1 infringes
the copyright to Clearwater, Florida-based Fourstar Group’s
solar-powered dancing chicken figurine.  According to the complaint, Fourstar claims that the items
are so similar that the mold used to make its “ Chick Solar ”
was then used to create Pier 1’s “ Solar Dancing Chick .” Pier 1
wasn’t authorized or licensed to make and sell a copy of its
product, the Florida company claims.  It asked the court for awards of money damages and Pier 1’s
profits attributable to the sale of the allegedly infringing
item. Additionally, Fourstar asked for an order barring further
infringement and for attorney fees and litigation costs.  Pier 1 didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Fourstar Group USA Inc. v. Pier 1 Imports Inc.,
8:13-cv-02304-SDM-EAJ, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Tampa).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Espionage Possible Motive for Engineer’s Killing, Police Say.  French police are speculating that industrial espionage may
have played a part in the murder of an Iraqi-born British
engineer and his family near the village of Chevaline a year
ago, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  Saad al-Hilli had what police said was “an unusual
amount” of information related to his work with a satellite
company when he, his wife, and his mother-in-law were gunned
down, as well as a passing cyclist, according to the newspaper.  French officials are investigating possible leads in  Iraq ,
the former Yugoslavia and Switzerland, the Guardian reported.  Police also mentioned a possible “violent” dispute al-Hilli allegedly had with a brother over an inheritance from
their father, according to the Guardian.  IP Moves  King & Spalding Adds Heafey to Intellectual Property Group  King & Spalding LLC hired Michael F. Heafey for its
 intellectual property  practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a
 statement .  Heafey, who does patent acquisition and licensing work as
well as patent and trade-secret litigation, was previously with
 San Francisco ’s Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLC. There he
represented clients in state and federal courts and before the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  His clients’ technologies have included integrated circuit
packaging, fiber optics, light-emitting diodes, packet switch
networks and dynamic random access memory.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from the  University of California  at Berkeley and a law degree
from  Georgetown University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 