-- Mitsubishi Estate Leads Property Gains on Olympics: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-09-09T08:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/mitsubishi-estate-leads-property-gains-on-olympics-tokyo-mover.html
Japan’s property stocks, including
 Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , had the biggest gain in more than two
months after Tokyo was selected to host the 2020  Olympic Games .  The 45-member Topix Real Estate Index jumped 5.3 percent at
the close of trading in Tokyo,the biggest gain since June 28.
The index, which closed at the highest since May 20, was the
best performer among 33 groups that make up the benchmark Topix.
Mitsubishi Estate, Japan’s second-biggest developer, and
 Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. (8830)  both rose 4.7 percent, while
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , the largest developer, surged 6.4 percent.  The economic effect of the games for the construction
industry is about 475 billion yen ($4.8 billion), while the game
will probably bring 152 billion yen to the property sector,
according to International Olympic Committee estimates.
Investments in road, bridges, stadiums and parks will benefit
construction companies and developers while boosting property
values in Harumi area near Tokyo Bay, where the majority of
stadiums will be located, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “Olympics is one of the catalysts to make more investment
in both private and public segment,” said  Yoji Otani , an
analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Sumitomo Realty
and Mitsui Fudosan own the most land near Tokyo Bay area among
developers, so they are set to benefit the most.”  The economic effect from the Olympic Games would be
approximately 3 trillion yen for Japan, according to the Tokyo
2020 Bid Committee’s website.  “It will provide a great opportunity for Tokyo to become
more international in a market place where the competition among
major cities in Asia has intensified,” Hirotaka Sugiyama,
president and chief executive office of Mitsubishi Estate Co.,
said in a statement. “As a developer, we will take this
opportunity to consider our contribution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  