-- Mitsui Engineering to Team Up With Rivals on LNG Ships
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-09-09T00:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/mitsui-engineering-to-team-up-with-rivals-on-lng-ships.html
(Corrects full-year profit forecast in 9th paragraph in
story originally published Sept. 5)  Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding
Co. (7003) , the heavy machinery maker whose merger talks with  Kawasaki
Heavy (7012)  Industries Ltd. fell apart earlier this year, has teamed
with other shipbuilders in Japan to bid for contracts to build
natural gas tankers to service shale-gas projects in the U.S.  The competitiveness of Japanese shipbuilders “has moved
close to the Koreans in terms of the currency,” President Takao Tanaka said in an interview in  Tokyo  last week. “It’s easier
for us to compete in the LNG tanker market” compared with the
cargo market, he said.  The yen’s 14 percent decline since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office in December is reviving the competitiveness of
Japanese shipbuilders. The timing is advantageous because  Japan ,
the world’s largest buyer of liquefied natural gas, is in the
midst of searching for cheaper energy sources after the
Fukushima disaster in March 2011.  More than 700 liquefied natural gas tankers will be needed
to satisfy the global market by 2030, almost twice the current
fleet of LNG ships in operations, Tanaka said, citing industry
data. Mitsui Engineering has the capacity to build as many as
three LNG tankers a year, he said, without naming potential
partners in Japan.  One possibility is for Mitsui Engineering to team with
Kawasaki Heavy to build LNG ships, Tanaka said. Kobe-based
Kawasaki Heavy fired its president and scrapped merger talks
with Mitsui in June. 　  Japan’s three other builders of LNG tankers include
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , closely held Imabari
Shipbuilding Co. and Japan Marine United Corp., the venture
formed in January by the merger of the shipbuilding units of IHI
Corp. and JFE Holdings Inc.  Contract Talks  Japanese shipbuilders, including Mitsui Engineering, are in
discussions with shipowners for contracts to supply LNG
carriers, Tanaka said, adding that each contract would be for
more than 10 vessels for delivery after 2017.  Mitsui Engineering, the most reliant of Japan’s major heavy
machinery makers on shipbuilding for sales, also plans to forge
two separate ventures in  Southeast Asia  with local partners to
produce container cranes and equipment for chemical plants as
part of its push to move to destinations where demand is
expanding and costs are lower, he said.  The company reported its first annual loss in 11 years in
the financial year ended March 31 because of a 24 billion yen
($241 million) impairment charge. It forecasts a profit of 7
billion yen this year.  “Burnable Ice”  Mitsui Engineering intends to be “one of the main
players” in a project backed by Japan to extract fuel from
deposits of methane hydrate, known as “burnable ice,” from
under the seabed.  The company is developing a gas hydrate carrier, storage
and gasification facility. It also owns  Modec Inc. (6269) , the world’s
second-biggest builder of floating production, storage and
offloading platforms.  In March, Japan conducted the world’s first tests to
extract fuel from methane hydrate deposits. The deposits may be
large enough to supply the nation’s natural gas needs for about
100 years, according to Japan Oil, Gas & Metals National Corp.  “No one predicted that U.S shale gas would be realized,”
Tanaka said. “Technology will advance when needs are quite
high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  