-- Jaguar Mulls Small SUV to Broaden Lineup in BMW Challenge
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-10T08:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/jaguar-plans-small-suv-to-broaden-lineup-in-bmw-challenge.html
Jaguar,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s high-end
British car brand, unveiled the C-X17 small sport-utility
vehicle prototype in a bid to challenge  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  for mainstream luxury-auto buyers.  The crossover, being introduced at the International Auto
Show in  Frankfurt  this month, is based on a new aluminum
architecture that will provide the underpinnings for a series of
vehicles, the Whitley, England-based manufacturer said.  “With this technical foundation, we will dramatically
expand Jaguar’s product offering, market potential and customer
appeal,”  Adrian Hallmark , head of the Jaguar brand for Tata’s
Jaguar Land Rover unit, said yesterday at a presentation in
downtown Frankfurt. “This new philosophy will bring technology
from our luxury products into an accessible price segment.”  Jaguar, which sells just one car for every 20 vehicles
delivered globally by Munich-based BMW, offers just four models
in the U.S., none of them an SUV. BMW has four crossovers as
part of its range of 11 vehicle lines. The British nameplate is
now mounting a challenge to its German rivals after helping its
image in recent years with cars like the $69,000 F-Type
roadster.  Good Timing  “They need an anchor vehicle, like a Mercedes C-Class or
BMW 3-Series, something a bit more attainable for luxury
buyers,” said Jessica Caldwell, a senior industry analyst for
Edmunds.com, which tracks U.S. auto sales. “Now is really good
time” for Jaguar to enter the segment.  Tata Motors’ shares  surged  as much as 10 percent and were
up 9.4 percent at 345 rupees at 2:05 p.m. in Mumbai trading. The
stock has gained 11 percent this year, valuing the company at
1.02 trillion rupees ($15.9 billion).  Spending on the aluminum technology, which will first be
used in a mid-sized sedan in 2015, will total 1.5 billion pounds
($2.36 billion), and the company will add 1,700 jobs at its
plant in Solihull,  England . Overall, Jaguar Land Rover is
spending 2.75 billion pounds this year on product development.  The investment is “a huge vote of confidence in the U.K.”
that will create an additional 24,000 jobs for suppliers, Prime
Minister David Cameron said in a statement.  Cheaper Models  A limited model range has held back Jaguar’s efforts to
attract new buyers and hold on to existing ones. This year,
about 24 percent of people who traded in a Jaguar in the U.S.
bought a car from another brand, according to industry data
tracker Edmunds.com. The retention rate was 37 percent for BMW
and 45 percent for  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division and Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz brand.  Jaguar’s cheapest car is the XF sedan, which starts at
$46,975, while BMW offers the $30,800 X1 SUV and Mercedes sells
the $29,900 CLA four-door compact coupe. A broader lineup could
help Jaguar gain ground as luxury-car buyers look for
alternatives to the near-ubiquitous German producers.  “There are a number of customers who don’t want a German
luxury car and may opt for a Jaguar or a Land Rover,” said
Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based fund manager at Raiffeisen Capital
Management, which oversees about $1.1 billion in emerging-market
assets, including shares in Tata Motors. “Overall, I’m quite
confident on Jaguar Land Rover.”  Efficient Spending  Jaguar said the new technology will allow it to offer
vehicles capable of top speeds of more than 300 kilometers (186
miles) per hour and emit less than 100 grams of carbon dioxide
per kilometer. The aluminum frame weighs about 30 percent less
than a traditional steel structure, Phil Popham, global sales
director for Jaguar Land Rover said in an interview.  “We’re a small company so every pound we spend has to be
efficient,” said Popham. “There’s significant volume in the
segment below the XF” sedan, while an SUV entrant will be
determined by the reaction to the concept car.  Jaguar and SUV manufacturer Land Rover, which Mumbai-based
Tata Motors bought from Ford Motor Co. in 2008, have become
critical for the Indian manufacturer of the budget Nano car.
Jaguar Land Rover accounted for 72 percent of group revenue and
88 percent of operating profit for the year ended March 31.  While Land Rover sales have surged 67 percent over the past
four years because of the popularity of SUVs, especially the
urban-focused Evoque, Jaguar is still looking for a
breakthrough, with deliveries 18 percent lower than in 2008,
according to data from IHS Automotive research company. Boosted
by new models, sales are forecast to more than triple to 162,000
vehicles by 2016, IHS estimates.  Big Gap  “Jaguar Land Rover is still a long way away from the three
German luxury-car makers,” said  Ashvin Chotai , managing
director of Intelligence Automotive Asia in  London . “They need
to fill the gaps with low-risk models.”  Improved quality and sharper design have already won over
customers like Chris Williams, a long-time BMW driver who bought
a Jaguar XF in 2009.  “I wanted something a little more unique, something a
little less volume-oriented,” said the 53-year-old marketing
consultant from Bernardsville, New Jersey. On top of better
quality rankings for the brand from J.D. Power, the XF has “a
sexy, exotic look to it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Frankfurt at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Frankfurt at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  