-- Jain Says Innovation Split Deutsche Bank Managers Naming Values
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-09-09T19:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/jain-says-innovation-split-deutsche-bank-managers-naming-values.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executives who last
year worked on a code by which to lead the company were split
over whether to include innovation as one of their values after
the development of complex products helped cause the financial
crisis, said co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain.  “One of our colleagues stepped up and said ‘wait a second,
we’ve always seen ourselves as very innovative, shouldn’t
innovation be a core value?’ Then an almighty discussion broke
out,” Jain said in a speech in Frankfurt today. “Half our
group said ‘wait a second, wasn’t it innovation that led to half
the problems that we face?’ The answer, of course, was yes.”  Five years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. roiled markets, bankers are trying to convince consumers,
corporations and regulators that they’re working for clients and
not solely their own profit. Jain, an investment banker who took
over as co-CEO with Juergen Fitschen last year, published six
values to stoke “cultural change” at Deutsche Bank in July.  “We came to the conclusion that to define Deutsche Bank or
indeed any financial institution without making innovation a
core value would be a mistake,” Jain said. “We’re very keen to
focus innovation on solving client needs” such as the need to
meet pension obligations, which is creating a major problem for
many corporations, he said.  Jain cited the repackaging of loans, a process known as
securitization, as an example of financial innovation that
brought “tremendous financial prosperity” as well as sparking
the turmoil of the subprime debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  