-- Japan Planning LNG Consumer Group to Help Cut Price of Imports
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-09-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/japan-planning-lng-consumer-group-to-help-cut-price-of-imports.html
Japan , the world’s biggest buyer of
liquefied natural gas, plans to form a group of like-minded
consumers to examine ways of lowering the cost of imports.  Japan’s Trade and Industry Minister Toshimitsu Motegi will
announce the plan today at a conference for LNG producing and
consuming countries in  Tokyo , according to the summary of his
speech obtained by Bloomberg News. The International Joint Study
Group will be led by the government-affiliated Institute of
Energy Economics, Japan, according to the draft.  Japan boosted imports of LNG and other fossil fuels for
power generation after the Fukushima disaster in March 2011
forced utilities to shut reactors to carry out safety checks.
With the country’s last operating reactor set to be closed in
mid-September, Japan is seeking ways to lower the costs,
including boosting imports of LNG from North America where a
shale gas boom has increased production.  Japan’s nine power utilities will face 3.8 trillion yen
($38 billion) more in combined fuel costs this fiscal year
compared with fiscal 2010 because of the shutdowns, the
government estimated in April. LNG will account for 1.6 trillion
yen of that.  The country paid an average  price  of $15.11 per million
British thermal units for LNG in June, according to data from
LNG Japan Corp. That compares with an average price for U.S.
natural gas futures of about $3.80 per million Btu.  The U.S. has approved exports of LNG from three projects to
countries with which it doesn’t have free trade agreements,
including Japan. The Asian nation expects the U.S. to give
approvals to two more, allowing exports of about 15 million
metric tons a year to Japan after 2017, or about 20 percent of
its needs, the draft said.  ‘Attractive Prices’  “There will come a time when suppliers will compete with
each other with attractive prices and terms,” as the global LNG
supply capacity will increase by 30 percent by 2018, the draft
said.  Motegi and  India ’s Oil Minister Veerappa Moily yesterday
agreed to work together to cut costs for importing LNG. The two
governments also supported the launch of the LNG group, they
said in a joint statement. Motegi is scheduled to give the
speech at an opening of the LNG conference in Tokyo today. About
1,000 delegates are expected to attend the conference, the trade
and industry ministry said in a Sept. 6 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  