-- Japan Dispatches Fighters After China Bomber Flight Near Islands
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-09-09T08:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/japan-dispatches-fighters-after-china-bomber-flight-near-islands.html
Japan  Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera described a flight by two Chinese bombers between
southern Japanese islands as “unusual,” two days before the
anniversary of the purchase of islands disputed with  China .  Japan  dispatched fighter planes  when the Chinese H-6
bombers flew between the main southern island of Okinawa and
Miyakojima about 280 kilometers (174 miles) further southwest on
Sunday, without entering Japanese airspace, the  Defense Ministry 
said in a statement on its website. China said the flight was
legal and that it would continue such maneuvers.  Japanese and Chinese ships and planes have been tailing one
another around small, uninhabited East China Sea islands known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China since the Japanese
government bought three of them from a private owner on Sept. 11
last year.  Onodera told reporters in  Tokyo  the flight was out of the
ordinary and that Japan must deal carefully with the anniversary
of the island purchase, according to Fumio Tokubuchi of the
Defense Ministry’s public affairs division.  The ministry said in a separate statement on its website
that two Chinese warships were also seen 100 kilometers
northeast of Miyakojima  at 2 a.m. today , heading from the
Pacific to the  East China Sea . An unmanned aircraft of unknown
origin flew near the disputed East China Sea islands earlier
today without violating Japanese airspace, Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga said. He called it “an unusual
incident.”  ‘Routine’ Operation  Chinese naval aircraft recently went to the western Pacific
for training in a “routine” operation, China’s Defense
Ministry said in a statement on its website today. The move
wasn’t targeted at any country and was in line with
international law, the ministry said.  The dispute over the islands sparked violent demonstrations
in China last year, damaging Japanese businesses and trade ties
between  Asia ’s two largest economies. Top-level diplomatic
meetings petered out and no formal bilateral summit has been
held for more than a year. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and Chinese President Xi Jinping spoke briefly during the Group
of 20 summit in  Russia  last week.  A Chinese military patrol aircraft followed a similar
flightpath in July, also spurring Japan to dispatch fighters. In
December a Chinese plane entered Japanese-controlled airspace
over the disputed islands, prompting Japan to send eight F-15
fighter jets into the area and to lodge what it called an
“extremely severe” protest with China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  