-- Jets’ Geno Smith Will Start at Patriots as Sanchez Won’t Play
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-09T17:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/jets-geno-smith-will-start-at-patriots-as-sanchez-won-t-play.html
Geno Smith will start at quarterback
for the  New York Jets  on Sept. 12 when they play at the  New
England Patriots , while  Mark Sanchez  will get a second opinion
on his injured shoulder and sit out again.  “Mark won’t play this game,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said at
a news conference, a day after the team beat the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers 18-17 on a field goal with two seconds left in their
National Football League season-opener. “Not that he had a
setback or anything else, but we’re going to take this time to
go get a different opinion and things like that to make sure
everybody’s comfortable with where he’s at.”  The Jets re-signed backup passer Brady Quinn today, two
days after cutting him to avoid having to guarantee his salary
for the season. To make room for Quinn, the Jets released
linebacker Danny Lansanah.  Smith, who was taken in the second round of this year’s
draft from West Virginia University, completed 24 of 38 pass
attempts for 256 yards, a touchdown, a fumble and an
interception yesterday. He also ran for 47 yards, including a
10-yard gain in the game’s closing seconds, when he drew a
penalty by being shoved on his way out of bounds by Tampa Bay
linebacker Lavonte David. Tampa Bay was flagged for a 15-yard
penalty, setting up  Nick Folk ’s 48-yard game-winning field goal.  Sanchez, the Jets’ starter the past four seasons after
being taken fifth in the 2009 NFL draft, hasn’t practiced since
injuring his shoulder during a preseason game against the  New
York Giants  on Aug. 24.  Sanchez probably has a partially torn labrum in the
shoulder and will seek a second opinion from surgeon James Andrews, ESPN reported, citing an unidentified person.  “He’s still day-to-day with us,” Ryan said. “It’s a
short week, he’s not going to play this game. This a mutual
thing with the team and Mark. Let’s go find out where he is and
get a different opinion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  