-- JPMorgan Raises Legal Reserve by at Least $1.5 Billion
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-10T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/jpmorgan-raises-legal-reserve-by-at-least-1-5-billion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, increased its litigation reserve by more
than $1.5 billion in the third quarter to help cover a
“crescendo” of potential legal claims.  “This addition to reserves covers a number of different
matters, some of which you’ve been reading about,” Chief
Financial Officer Marianne Lake said yesterday at the Barclays
Global Financial Services Conference in  New York . “There’s been
a crescendo of activity in past weeks and we are reacting to
that where it makes sense.”  JPMorgan added 3,000 employees to bolster internal controls
and compliance as it grapples with multiple investigations and
regulatory orders, Lake said. The U.S. is conducting criminal
investigations linked to the bank’s energy-trading and mortgage-backed securities businesses as well as separate probes of its
anti-money-laundering safeguards, foreclosures, credit-card
collections and a record trading loss in  London  last year.  While executives think they’ve set aside enough money to
cover the bank’s legal expenses for the quarter, the final cost
could change, said Lake, 43. She declined to give an estimate
for how large the litigation reserve might become.  “We do expect to add to litigation reserves in the
quarter, which will more than offset the $1.5 billion or so of
consumer reserve releases” that the bank is forecasting, Lake
said. “Things are still evolving. There’s three more weeks” in
the quarter, she said.  Board Changes  The bank named two new members to its board and announced
expanded powers for lead director Lee R. Raymond to help bolster
risk oversight, the company said yesterday in a statement. The
move follows Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s successful
battle to retain his role as chairman earlier this year.  Linda B. Bammann, who previously served as chief risk
officer at Bank One Corp. when Dimon ran that bank, and General
Electric Co. executive Michael A. Neal were nominated to the
board. They would replace Ellen V. Futter and David M. Cote,
former members of JPMorgan’s risk committee who stepped down in
July after narrowly winning re-election in May.  The bank also expects to lose money on home lending in the
second half of the year as interest rates rise and mortgage
volume drops as much as 40 percent from the first six months of
2013, Lake said.  ‘Slightly Negative’  Pretax profit margins and income on mortgage lending will
be “slightly negative” in the third and fourth quarters, Lake
said.  “Although this may have happened sooner than we had
expected, we did contemplate a more normal rate environment in
our longer-term targets,” Lake said. As a result, the company’s
projected mortgage production pretax income is still $1.5
billion, she said.  Third-quarter revenue from stock and bond trading may drop
by as much as 5 percent from a year earlier, she said.  Trading revenue is “tracking well versus the third quarter
of last year, but September last year was particularly strong
and we don’t expect it to be as strong as last year,” Lake
said.  JPMorgan, which generates the most revenue from trading of
any bank, produced $4.77 billion in last year’s third quarter.
Lake’s forecast suggests a minimum of $4.53 billion for the
current period, which would be a 16 percent drop from the second
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  