-- JPMorgan Names Two to Board, Creates Lead Director Role
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-09T15:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/jpmorgan-names-two-to-board-creates-lead-director-role.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the bank that
incurred a $6.2 billion trading loss last year, will elect Linda B. Bammann and Michael A. Neal to its board and named Lee R. Raymond as lead independent director, giving him more powers.  Raymond, formerly presiding director, will have authority
to call meetings at any time, approve agendas and add agenda
items, and will guide the board in considering the succession of
chief executive officers, New York-based JPMorgan said today in
a statement.  Investors in May rejected a proposal to split the chairman
and CEO roles, which advisory firms such as Institutional
Shareholder Services said would improve oversight. The bank said
today that the board will hold executive sessions without
company management at every regular board meeting, make members
available to meet with major shareholders and won’t rotate the
lead independent director position every year.  Bammann and Neal are “proven leaders and will bring
outstanding, risk, finance and management experience to our
board,” Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in the
statement.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, last
year staved off a shareholder proposal to split the roles of
Chairman and CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein by agreeing to appoint an
independent lead director. James J. Schiro, the former CEO of
Zurich Financial Services AG and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP who
joined Goldman Sachs’s board in 2009, was named to the role in
April 2012.  Bank One  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, expects to elect
Bammann to the board on Sept. 16 and Neal will join in January
after he retires from his current position, according to the
statement.  Bammann, 57, was chief risk management officer under Dimon
at Bank One Corp., where he was chairman and CEO, from 2001
until it was acquired by JPMorgan in 2004, and then she served
as deputy head of risk management until leaving the company in
2005, according to the statement.  She became a director of  Freddie Mac  after it entered
government conservatorship in late 2008 until July of this year.
She was chairwoman of the board’s business and risk committee,
according to JPMorgan.  Neal, 60, is vice chairman of General Electric Co., which
he joined in 1979, and intends to retire at the end of the year.
He was chairman and CEO of the GE Capital subsidiary from 2007
until June.  Futter, Cote  Ellen V. Futter and David M. Cote, both members of
JPMorgan’s risk committee, stepped down from the board in July
after they narrowly won re-election in May. They overcame
opposition from some shareholders after the $6.2 billion trading
loss last year exposed risk-management failures. The retirements
left the bank with nine board members, including Dimon.  Bammann will join the risk committee, which came under
scrutiny after a JPMorgan trader, dubbed the London Whale
because of the size of his positions, made the wayward bet on
 credit derivatives . Cote, 61, CEO of  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) , and Futter, 63, president of the  American Museum of
Natural History , had never worked at a bank or as financial risk
managers,  Bloomberg News  reported in May 2012.  Fellow risk committee member James S. Crown, 60, president
of Henry Crown & Co., hadn’t been employed in the industry for
more than 25 years. Former KPMG International Chairman Timothy Flynn was added to the board and risk committee last year.  Criminal Probes  JPMorgan is contending with criminal investigations of its
energy-trading and mortgage-backed securities operations. The
firm also faces U.S. probes of its anti-money-laundering
safeguards, foreclosures, credit-card collections and the London
Whale debacle.  The bank has made bolstering regulatory compliance and
internal controls its priority this year, Dimon, 57, has said.  “We’ve taken some of our best people and we’ve given them
command-and-control authority, we’ve staffed them up, and we’re
going to fix every single last” problem, he told investors at a
June conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  