-- KPN Finance Chief Hageman Steps Down Amid America Movil Bid
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-09-09T07:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/kpn-says-cfo-hageman-steps-down-due-to-personal-circumstances.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
carrier that’s the subject of a takeover proposal by  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , said Chief Financial Officer Eric Hageman is stepping
down after a year and a half.  KPN will make a further announcement regarding the CFO role
as soon as possible, The Hague-based company said in a statement
today. The telecommunications company said his decision,
effective immediately, was for personal reasons and isn’t
related to KPN’s “present circumstances.”  America Movil  may plan to appoint its own management at KPN
as the Mexico City-based company bids for a controlling stake in
the Dutch carrier, according to Javier Borrachero, a Madrid-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. KPN’s independent
foundation used an option last month to impede what it described
as a hostile takeover.  “The resignation of a top executive may always introduce
some uncertainty,” Borrachero wrote in a note to investors. He
has a hold recommendation on KPN. “This time, it should have
minimal impact in the share price as M&A is the main driver.”  KPN dropped 0.3 percent to 2.17 euros as of 9:56 a.m. local
time. That values the company at 9.25 billion euros ($12.2
billion).  Hageman, 43, was named interim CFO in January 2012 and got
the post and a seat on the management board in September 2012.
He helped organize this year’s capital increase and the intended
sale of German wireless unit E-Plus to Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
KPN said.  Hageman held various management positions with ABN Amro
Holding NV and Deutsche Bank AG prior to joining KPN in 2005,
according to KPN’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  