-- NBC Online Quiz Show Lets Subway Chase TV Viewers All Day
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-09T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nbc-online-quiz-show-lets-subway-chase-tv-viewers-all-day.html
For Subway Restaurants, NBC’s “The
Million Second Quiz” trivia show is no stumper -- it’s a chance
to put its sandwiches in front of viewers for almost two weeks
straight.  The  live game show  makes its debut tonight on  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s television network, running for 12 days without
interruption, online and for one hour in prime time. The novel
format has shown promise, with more than 300,000 downloads of
the app and 11 million playing online before the show started.  “The digital piece combined with a prime-time piece, you
don’t find that all too often,”  Tony Pace , Subway’s chief
marketing officer, said in an interview. “People who get
engaged with this will stay engaged, and that frequency of
engagement is very valuable.”  NBC and its partners, which include Eveready Battery Co.
and  Orville Redenbacher’s  popcorn, are betting the immersive
approach will work. Audience members compete at home for
footlong Subway sandwiches and a chance to play on the set in
New York, which features a Subway restaurant and Eveready-sponsored Money Chair.  Their success will depend on whether the show attracts
viewers and can sustain an audience as the competition
progresses, said  Brad Adgate , senior vice president of research
at  Horizon Media , a New York-based advertising company.  “Having the 24-hour interactive component should help,”
Adgate said. “It’s a pretty interesting idea.”  Reaching Smartphones  With “Million Second Quiz,” NBC is trying to adapt a
1960s-style live game-show format to the smartphone-toting
audiences that advertisers like Subway want to reach. The
network is aware it risks making too many overt references to
sponsors and turning off viewers,  Jim Hoffman , executive vice
president of NBC Entertainment sales and marketing, said in an
interview.  “It’s nirvana if you do it right but it can backfire if
it’s forced,” Hoffman said. “We collaborate over hours and
hours of conversations with brand managers on the show and with
our clients to make sure we get everything completely right.”  Execution is the key, said  Peter Gardiner  of ad-buying firm
Gardiner & Partners, where he goes by the title of head guy.
Brand integrations can be more effective than traditional
commercials if they’re smartly connected to the show, he said.
Poorly imagined efforts are more common and can do damage to the
brand, he said.  “Like so much else in marketing, with the proper strategy,
creativity and execution, integrations can be a powerful and
effective weapon,” Gardiner said.  Season Warm-Up  Eveready, a unit of St. Louis-based  Energizer Holdings
Inc. (ENR) , sponsors a Countdown Clock and “Charged Moments” recap
segments. The battery maker was drawn to the program’s
interactive nature, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “The digital aspect of the ‘Million Second Quiz’ allows
families not only to interact with one another, but to interact
with the live show on their television screens,” the company
said.  Redenbacher’s, owned by  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , will sponsor
the on-air competition clock and run a “Get Your Orville
Ready” campaign.  “Million Second Quiz,” hosted by  Ryan Seacrest , could
give NBC a head-start on the TV season and, potentially, a game-show franchise to rival ABC’s “Who Wants to be a Millionaire.”  With the smallest audience of the four major TV networks,
NBC is using “Million Second Quiz” to draw attention to its
lineup ahead of the official start of the new TV season. The
game show’s 12-day run wraps up just as a new schedule of prime-time shows begins airing this month.  Money Chair  The network averaged 6.95 million viewers a night during
the prime-time TV season that ended in May, dropping 5.3 percent
and trailing CBS, Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, according to
Nielsen data.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable operator, in March
completed its phased takeover of NBCUniversal, first announced
in 2009. Shares of the Philadelphia-based company fell 0.4
percent to $42.33 at the close in  New York .  Neither NBC nor its advertisers would say how much is being
spent on the sponsorships. The network obtained $2.1 billion in
advertising commitments for the new TV season, about 80 percent
of its prime-time inventory, a person with knowledge of the
contracts said in July. For the first time, the network’s so-called upfront advertising sales were negotiated alongside
sister cable channels including USA. That helped to  spur about
a 17 percent increase in commitments from the previous year.  ‘Great Buzz’  For each second a contestant on “Million Second Quiz”
survives in the Eveready-sponsored Money Chair, they get $10.
The $10 million total amounts to “the biggest prize in game
show history,” NBCUniversal chief executive officer Steve Burke
wrote in a Sept. 4 staff e-mail.  “There is already a lot of great buzz and we think there
is a chance ‘The Million Second Quiz’ could really break
through,” Burke said in the e-mail. “‘The Million Second Quiz’
is an important initiative for NBC.”  Subway gained the confidence to back an untested game show
by working previously with NBC on special sponsorships that kept
“Chuck” and “Community” on the air, according to Pace. The
sandwich company also has sponsored the network’s reality
weight-loss show, “The Biggest Loser,” he said.  “We’ve done a lot of integrations with NBC and had a lot
of success,” Pace said. “A live, prime-time game show that
happens as much online as on television, was too interesting to
pass up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  