-- NBCUniversal Appoints Comcast Veteran to Lead Film Group
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nbcuniversal-names-jeff-shell-to-lead-filmed-entertainment-unit.html
NBCUniversal, the entertainment
division of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , shook up its film division, naming
television executive Jeff Shell to lead the studio and moving
long-time chief Ron Meyer to a new corporate role.  Meyer, 68, who oversaw films and theme parks as Universal
Studios’ president and chief operating officer, becomes vice
chairman of NBCUniversal, according to a statement yesterday.
Donna Langley, 45, was named chairman of Universal Pictures,
replacing Adam Fogelson, 46, who’s leaving. Langley reports to
Shell.  Shell’s appointment puts an eight-year Comcast veteran atop
the Los Angeles-based studio, seven months after it took full
ownership of the business. Shell, 48, moved to NBCUniversal
International with Comcast’s 2011 takeover of the entertainment
company and previously oversaw the cable operator’s original
programming.  Shell is “a Comcast guy by DNA and history, while
understanding the film business,”  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst
with Wunderlich Securities in Denver, wrote in an e-mail.  Bringing a company insider to the studio “implies more
genuine enthusiasm for film,” including a desire to exploit
popular film franchises across Comcast’s business, he said.  Under the new arrangement, Shell reports to Steve Burke,
chairman and chief executive officer of NBCUniversal.  “In Ron, Jeff and Donna, we have three of the most
talented business and creative executives in the industry,”
Burke said in the statement. “I have no doubt their collective
strengths will help us continue to maintain our momentum and
drive value at the studio.”  Box Office  Universal scored its eighth No. 1 opening of the year last
weekend with “Riddick,” a science-fiction feature starring Vin Diesel that was released on Sept. 6.  The studio leads the industry with $1.31 billion in
domestic box-office receipts this year, a 17 percent market
share, according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Its hits this
year include “Despicable Me 2” and “Fast & Furious 6,” which
also features Diesel. Universal finished fourth in 2012.  Comcast fell 0.4 percent to $42.30 in New York yesterday.
The stock has gained 13 percent this year.  A former president of Rupert Murdoch’s Fox Cable Networks
Group, Shell joined Philadelphia-based Comcast in 2005 as
president of programming. After Comcast purchased NBCUniversal
in 2011, he moved to  London  to become chairman of NBCUniversal
International.  Murdoch Lieutenant  At Fox, Shell was a top lieutenant who Murdoch sent to
Gemstar-TV Guide International, where he replaced founder Henry Yuen as CEO and led a review of the company’s accounting.  Meyer was the longest-running studio head in the industry,
leading Universal since 1995. In the newly created role he will
offer strategic guidance on all aspects of NBCUniversal,
according to the company, which operates the NBC TV network,
cable channels and the Universal Studios theme parks.  “There is no one in Hollywood like Ron,” Burke said. “He
is among the most accomplished, experienced and well-respected
executives in the entertainment business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  