-- Neiman Marcus to Be Bought by Ares, Canada Fund
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-09-09T21:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/neiman-marcus-to-be-bought-by-ares-canada-fund.html
Neiman Marcus Inc.’s new private-equity owners are buying a luxury chain that’s in danger of
running out of room to expand in the U.S. as even well-heeled
shoppers pull back.  Ares Management LLC and the  Canada   Pension Plan  Investment
Board agreed today to buy the U.S. department store company from
TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus LLC for $6 billion.  While Neiman has recovered some of its luster in the past
year, sales remain below their 2008 peak. Many Americans are
wary amid a weak economy and rather than spending on apparel are
upgrading their cars and buying home-related merchandise as the
U.S. housing recovery gathers momentum.  “It is a difficult environment for luxury companies these
days because we’ve seen fewer foreign visitors and the domestic
shopper is carefully cutting back because of the uncertainty,”
said Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a New York-based
retail consulting firm.  Luxury spending in the Americas grew 5 percent on a
constant-currency basis in 2012, less than half the 13 percent
gain of the previous year, according to Bain & Co. estimates.  Neiman’s previous owners also considered taking the
department store chain public. That they didn’t probably
reflects the difficult retail environment, said Michael Appel,
founder of Appel Associates LLC, a Purchase, New York-based
retail consulting firm  Spur Growth  Chief Executive Officer Karen Katz has worked to spur sales
growth by introducing the chain’s Cusp contemporary fashion
concept into its namesake stores to attract younger customers,
opening an e-commerce site in  China , and rolling out more Last
Call outlets.  Revenue rose 8.6 percent to $4.35 billion in its last
reported fiscal year, ended July 28, 2012. Net income more than
quadrupled to $140.1 million. Neiman is larger and more
profitable than New York-based Saks Inc., which generated net
income of $62.9 million on revenue of $3.15 billion in its last
full year.  Katz, a Neiman veteran who assumed the helm in 2010, will
stay, said Ginger Reeder, a spokeswoman. Bill Mendel, an outside
spokesman for Ares, and May Chong, a spokeswoman for the
Canadian pension plan, both declined to comment.  Katz may layer in lower-priced products to attract a wider
audience, Loeb said. The chain’s full-size stores are already
present in major affluent markets on the East and West coasts
and  Texas . So the company will probably seek growth by
developing smaller stores and adding more outlets, he said.  ‘Well Run’  “The operation is very well run, so I don’t think you can
squeeze out a lot of new productivity,” said Steven Dennis, the
founder of SageBerry Consulting LLC, a  Dallas  consulting firm,
and a former Neiman executive. “The question is how do you get
more things out of the core business and are there other things
that could create new growth platforms for them? That’s not
obvious to me.”  E-commerce sales growth is flattening and international
expansion is a big question mark, he said.  Yet “there is a trophy value to owning an asset like
 Neiman Marcus ,” he said. “Barring a recession, it’s a stable,
easy-to-understand business with reliable cash flows.”  Neiman Marcus was founded in Dallas by Herbert Marcus, his
sister and her husband A.L. Neiman in 1907. Marcus bought out
the Neimans in 1928 and his son Stanley ran the stores from 1952
to 1979. Stanley’s son Richard then became CEO until 1988, when
he resigned, ending 81 years of family management.  The chain, which runs 41 stores under the Neiman name and
two Bergdorf Goodman department stores on  New York  City’s Fifth
Avenue, is known for its Christmas catalog, which offers such
gifts as limited-edition McLaren cars for $354,000.  Sliding Sales  Warburg and TPG paid about $5.1 billion for Neiman in 2005
during a global luxury boom only to watch sales slide after the
financial markets crashed in 2008.  “They didn’t expect 2008 to 2011 to happen,” Appel said.
“There was this hiatus there with what happened with the Great
Recession. It took a period of time for them to get it back on
track so that they could be ready to market it.”  Ares and the pension fund will hold an equal economic
interest in Neiman, and the chain’s management will retain a
minority stake, the buyers said in a statement today. The chain
will use some of the purchase price to pay down debt, they said.  Los Angeles-based Ares has invested in Smart & Final Stores
Corp., Floor & Décor Outlets of America Inc., and 99 Cents Only
Stores, its website says.  The Neiman sale is the second deal in the luxury retail
industry in recent months.  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC)  agreed to buy Saks
for $2.4 billion in July, combining Canada’s largest-department
store chain with one of the most prestigious U.S. luxury
retailers in a deal that may spur the creation of a real estate
investment trust. The transaction, which brings together the
Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue brands, creates a company
that will operate 320 stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  