-- New York Times CEO Grilled by Parliament Over BBC Pay Packages
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/new-york-times-ceo-grilled-by-parliament-over-bbc-pay-packages.html
Former British Broadcasting Corp.
Director General Mark Thompson, now chief executive officer of
 New York  Times Co., defended himself in a hearing as U.K.
lawmakers criticized his payouts to departing BBC executives.  Thompson, who left the publicly funded U.K. TV and radio
service a year ago to take the Times job, was grilled by members
of Parliament’s public accounts committee yesterday over his
management of the broadcaster. Under scrutiny are the exit
payments made to Mark Byford, a deputy director general, and
Sharon Baylay, a marketing executive. Byford  was paid  about 1
million pounds ($1.6 million), while Baylay got 394,000 pounds.  “The program as a whole saved 35 million pounds,”
 Thompson said  of his cost-cutting plan in the hearing.  The U.K.’s government-spending watchdog in July said the
 BBC  broke rules on severance payments in spending 25 million
pounds over three years to cut top jobs, paying some managers
more than they were entitled -- either to keep them as
consultants or ensure they left quickly. The BBC handed out 150
severance packages over three years ending in December 2012.  Committee Chairman Margaret Hodge questioned why Thompson
felt it was necessary to pay Byford the maximum severance
allowed under his contract, benefiting him by an extra 500,000
pounds.  “Why did you consider half a million too little as a fair
redundancy payment to Mark Byford?” she asked Thompson.  Thompson said the amount was appropriate given the amount
of work the BBC was undertaking with the coverage of the Queen’s
Jubilee and other major events, and he didn’t want Byford
distracted by looking for other work.  “This was not because I thought it was in the interest of
Mark Byford,” Thompson said. “I believe it was in the BBC’s
interest because of the immense operational challenges at the
time.”  “You haven’t answered the question,” Hodge said.  Full Support’  Thompson also challenged claims from members of the BBC
Trust, the service’s governing body, saying he believed he had
their “full support” for his severance-payment plan.  The Metropolitan Police Service said last month that its
Economic Crime office hadn’t found enough “evidence of
dishonesty or criminal misconduct” to warrant an investigation
into the matter.  The BBC is funded by U.K. residents through an annual
license fee charged to households that own televisions. The
current fee is 145.50 pounds for a  color TV license .  Shed Jobs  The BBC’s severance policies drew increased scrutiny after
former Director General George Entwistle received 450,000
pounds, more than twice his contracted entitlement, when he quit
less than two months into the job in November. Entwistle stepped
down after a television report by the BBC’s “Newsnight”
program falsely implicated a former senior politician with
sexual abuse of a child.  The shakeup followed a period of cost-cutting under
Thompson, who shed jobs in a bid to streamline the BBC and pare
expenses. While the cuts ultimately saved 35 million pounds over
a three-year period -- more than they cost -- the severance
payoffs “provided poor value for money for license fee
payers,” according an auditor’s report from July.  “The level of some of these payments was wrong,” current
BBC Director General Tony Hall said in a statement after the
auditor’s report was released. “The BBC lost its way on
payments in recent years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  