-- Thomas Bach Elected to Head International Olympic Committee
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-10T17:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/new-olympic-chief-may-influence-world-sports-through-mid-century.html
Thomas Bach of  Germany  was elected
president of the International Olympic Committee, replacing
Jacques Rogge as the head of one of sport’s most powerful
groups.  Bach was elected in the second round of voting after
international boxing association head Ching-Kuo Wu was
eliminated in the opening voting, leaving five candidates for
the final ballot. Bach got 49 votes, besting the closest
candidate, Richard Carrion of Puerto Rico, by 20.  Rogge, a 71-year-old who stabilized the IOC for 12 years as
it recovered from corruption scandals, is retiring, and a record
number of candidates vied to replace him at the 125th annual
meeting today in Buenos Aires. The new head for the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based body may influence decisions for events
through 2040, according to Michael Payne, who oversaw the IOC’s
marketing from 1983 to 2004.  “I would like to thank from the bottom of my heart all my
friends and colleagues who voted for me -- this is really an
overwhelming sign of trust,” Bach said. “I will work with you
in the coming years and repay your confidence. I know about the
great responsibility of an IOC president.”  The potential power attracted the biggest field of
candidates in the IOC’s history. Bach, a German lawyer and
Olympic gold-medalist fencer, was labeled the frontrunner by
some IOC members including Dick Pound of  Canada .  ‘Certainty’  The other candidates were Carrion, former world champion
and current pole-vault record holder Sergey Bubka from  Ukraine ,
 Singapore ’s Ng Ser Miang, Wu and Denis Oswald, a Swiss lawyer
who was responsible for coordinating the 2012 London games.  Ng got six votes in the final tally, with Oswald getting
five and Bubka four.  “The election of Bach gives us certainty,” British IOC
vice president Craig Reedie said. “There was a majority early
in the process and I think that’s good news.”  Candidates and their supporters had been working to gather
votes during the meeting, which started Sept. 4.  “He ran a great campaign and is humble in triumph,” Ng
said in a statement. “This is a time of great challenges for
the Olympic movement, and I wish President Bach the very best of
success in guiding the IOC as we move into a new and exciting
era.”  ‘Olympic Final’  Bach told reporters that although he was confident heading
into today’s vote, he’d continue to push as if he was
“preparing for an Olympic final.”  The German, 59, was a team fencing champion at the 1976
Games in  Montreal . He has degrees in law and politics.  “Your election to this most important of sporting offices
shows impressively the regard and trust you enjoy inside the
Olympic family,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in an
open letter to Bach. “I am very glad that Germany will through
you continue to be represented excellently on the international
stage.”  Bach joined the IOC executive board in 1996, and four years
later became a vice president, a post he still held. While South
Korea will host the 2018 Winter Games and  Tokyo  won the 2020
Summer Olympics during the current meeting, there has never been
an IOC president from outside America or Europe.  Rogge was the eighth president of the organization, and
defeated four opponents in the 2001 vote in Moscow. The Belgian
served his eight-year term and then was voted in for an
additional four-year extension.  The Belgian became an orthopedic surgeon after competing in
the yachting competition at the 1968, 1972 and 1976 Olympics. He
joined the IOC executive board in 1998.  “The new president won’t want to be a mirror image of his
predecessor,” Reedie said. “But he knows more about the
organization of the IOC and the implications for the movement
than any of the other candidates, in what was a strong field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Buenos Aires via the Rio de Janeiro newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  