-- New Jersey Ex-Husband Fighting Alimony Denied Release
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-09T23:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/new-jersey-ex-husband-fighting-alimony-denied-release.html
Ari Schochet, a  New Jersey  man sent
to jail for missing alimony payments, was ordered by a judge to
remain confined in a county work-release program.  Schochet, featured in an Aug. 26 Bloomberg story on
proposals to change New Jersey’s alimony laws, must spend his
nights and weekends locked inside a county jail unless he pays a
lump sum of $25,000 toward more than $233,000 in arrears, New
Jersey Family Court Judge Ronny Jo Siegel ruled today after a
hearing in Bergen County Jail in Hackensack.  Schochet, who once worked as a portfolio manager at Wall
Street firms, has been jailed for missing court-ordered payments
at least eight times in the past two years after the end of his
17-year marriage. Job losses and a weak economy caused him to
run through his savings trying to pay his ex-wife alimony and
child support that totaled almost $100,000 a year.  “Mr. Schochet is attempting to put things back together,”
Benjamin Kelsen, a lawyer representing Schochet pro bono, said
during the hearing. “This is not a case of someone who doesn’t
want to pay but rather somebody who doesn’t have the ability to
pay.”  Siegel rejected Kelsen’s request for Schochet to be
released from the program pending a 30-day review.  “I’m looking at a defendant who now owes no less than
$233,000. That’s an extraordinarily high amount of money,”
Siegel said, noting that Schochet could have filed a request for
a separate hearing to analyze his ability to pay.  Indefinite Alimony  Schochet and other ex-spouses in similar circumstances
argue that New Jersey’s law unfairly imposes exorbitant and
indefinite alimony payments on them. If they fail to make
payments, like the $78,000 a year Schochet owes his ex-wife in
alimony, they can be jailed for contempt of court regardless of
whether they have a job or resources. Persuading a judge to
change amounts is difficult with the average lawyer’s fee
starting at about $10,000, according to Tom Leustek, a divorced
Rutgers University professor who heads the advocacy group New
Jersey Alimony Reform.  “State judges are incarcerating non-criminals without even
a sentence,” said Stuart Meissner, a Dumont, New Jersey,
attorney who is running as an independent in the October special
election for the  U.S. Senate . Defendants are being denied their
right to counsel and hearings to assess their inability to pay
as mandated under state law, Meissner said, who has made family
court and alimony reform central issues in his campaign.  Unemployment, Disability  Proposed legislation pending before New Jersey lawmakers
would allow modification of alimony due to changed circumstances
such as a payer’s unemployment or disability. A bill, modeled on
 Massachusetts ’ alimony reform law which took effect last year,
would base alimony on the length of the marriage and income and
allow ex-spouses to stop payments when they retire.  About 22,000 former spouses receive alimony under court
supervision in New Jersey, with child support also going to
about 60 percent of them. An unknown number receive maintenance
under private settlements that couples reach before going to
family court.  Schochet said no hearing was ever conducted to assess his
ability to make payments. He has consistently made payments
toward child support for his four girls ages 10-16, he said, but
because that amount is combined with alimony payments a sum less
than the total triggers a default.  ‘Off the Wheels’  “I’m in a system that’s working totally off the wheels,”
Schochet said in an interview before the hearing. “The
hopelessness of it all is that I don’t have the money to
fight.”  Schochet’s ex-wife, Sharona Grossberg, told Siegel today
that she has struggled with three jobs to support their four
daughters.  “I feed my daughters, I clothe them, I pay for their
health insurance, I keep gas in the car,” Grossberg said. “My
paycheck doesn’t cover the expenses that are necessary. I cannot
do this alone.”  Schochet said his wages have been garnished by the state’s
probation department for the past 18 months. Schochet now works
part-time as an entry-level stock transfer agent, a job that
leaves him with about $100 a month in disposable cash after
garnisheeing and taxes. An occasional job at a florist helps to
supplement his income.  “I’m not sure a work/release program of keeping him in
jail overnight is helping in this particular situation,” Kelsen
said. “It should be a coercive action, not a punitive one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  