-- NFL Nonprofit Status Seen Targeted in IRS Code Revision: Taxes
-- B y   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-09-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nfl-nonprofit-status-seen-targeted-in-irs-code-revision-taxes.html
There’s a fresh spark in Congress to
scrap the nonprofit status of sports outfits like the National
Football League as part of the revisions to the  U.S. tax code .  Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican, says the tax
legislation should eliminate the status given to organizations
like the NFL, National Hockey League and Professional Golfers’
Association of America, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The tax-exempt status of profit-making sports leagues has
long raised concern among some lawmakers. Congress is drafting a
plan for the biggest changes to tax rules since 1986. Officials
are looking to end some long-standing breaks, and there is a
debate between the political parties about finding ways to bring
in more revenue and help reduce  the national debt .  “To bring in more revenue to the government is obviously
something that has some appeal,” said Michael McCann, professor
at the University of New Hampshire School of Law and director of
its Sports and Entertainment Law Institute.  The NFL’s nonprofit status, which relates to its
classification as a business league, was established in the
1960s as the NFL was negotiating its 1970 merger with the former
American Football League. The PGA’s status is related to its
charitable giving; nearly all PGA Tour events are non-profit.  The leagues have successfully fought such challenges to
their status under Section 501(c)(6) in the past. However, the
other changes that are being considered in the tax code now are
so broad that the effort may gain strength now.  Repealing the tax-exempt status for certain pro sports
leagues would increase  federal budget  receipts by $109 million
between fiscal years 2014 and 2023, according to an estimate
from the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Coburn Tweet  Coburn in May made an amendment to another bill being
considered on the Senate floor, the Marketplace Fairness Act (S.
743), that would have removed the tax exemption. He withdrew the
amendment before the bill passed.  More recently, Coburn tweeted Aug. 26 about how foreign
professional golfers can avoid U.S. income taxes by exploiting
what he termed a “loophole” in the tax code, as well as the
nonprofit status enjoyed by the NFL, the NHL and the PGA.  Legislation to overhaul the tax code should end such
subsidies, he said in July in a letter to Senate Finance
Committee Chairman Max Baucus and ranking member Orrin Hatch.  Specifically, Coburn questioned the nonprofit status of the
NFL, NHL and PGA, as well as foreign golfers’ ability to use the
PGA’s charitable status to avoid any impact on their permanent
resident alien status and thereby avoid U.S. income taxes.  Coburn has also raised the issue in his annual report on
wasted government spending, most recently issued in October
2012. “Major professional sports leagues should no longer be
eligible for general federal tax exemption,” he said in the
report.  On Table  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, and  House Ways and Means 
Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a Republican from  Michigan ,
wouldn’t say whether tax preferences for certain professional
athletes and sports leagues are in their crosshairs, instead
simply saying everything is on the table.  The Ways and Means Committee plans to mark up legislation
to rewrite the tax code this fall.  McCann told Bloomberg BNA that tax exemptions for college
athletics also deserve consideration. The National Collegiate
Athletic Association remains tax exempt, although McCann said
college sports are overwhelmingly motivated by profits rather
than any academic mission.  “There’s some merit to discussing an exemption that’s
supposed to be based on academics,” McCann said.  Lawmakers have generally treaded more lightly around the
NCAA question, which McCann attributed to political dynamics in
their home districts.  NCAA Divisions  Coburn didn’t mention college sports in his letter to
Baucus and Hatch, nor did he raise the matter in his report on
government spending. Similarly, Chuck Grassley, an Iowa
Republican who is a senior Senate Finance Committee member, has
in the past questioned the NFL’s tax-exempt status and has
remained less vocal about the NCAA.  In March, a spokesperson for Grassley said the senator
doesn’t look at the NCAA solely as it relates to Division I
sports, but also Division III and smaller colleges that don’t
bring in much money and often operate at a loss. Smaller schools
also deserve consideration when contemplating changes to tax
policy that would affect the NCAA, Grassley’s spokesperson said.  The pro leagues and the NCAA have always fended off attacks
on their exempt status, even though debate over the gray area
around tax exemptions would also ripple beyond revenue.  Tax Clarity  A group known as the Business Coalition for Fair
Competition has petitioned Congress for a more level playing
field between companies that pay income taxes and competitors
that operate as nonprofits.  The organization’s president, John Palatiello, has urged
lawmakers to better clarify the difference between exempt and
nonexempt purposes as part of legislation to rewrite tax laws,
including in testimony before the Ways and Means panel in
February.  Palatiello is less focused on revenue. He acknowledged that
clearer tax-status qualifications would increase payments.  “There’s no question that there are significant revenue
implications to this debate,” Palatiello said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  