-- Giants to Try Out Running Backs After Wilson’s Errors in Dallas
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-10T04:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nfl-giants-try-out-jacobs-mcgahee-as-wilson-fumbles-espn-says.html
The  New York Giants  will hold
tryouts for free-agent running backs today after starter  David
Wilson  fumbled twice in a 36-31 loss to the  Dallas Cowboys  in
Week 1 of the National Football League season.  New York will work out  Brandon Jacobs , Willis McGahee and
former New York Jet Joe McKnight, according to ESPN and  CBS
Sports . Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  didn’t confirm the players’
names in a conference call with reporters last night.  “We’ll take a look at the players who are assigned to come
in here tomorrow and see if there, in fact, is an upgrade and go
from there,” Coughlin said. “You’re always searching to see if
you can improve and where you can improve and that goes for a
lot of spots.”  The Giants had planned to work out McGahee prior to the
loss in Dallas,  ESPN reported  on its website. In the season
opener, New York committed six turnovers and Wilson was benched
during the third quarter following his second fumble.  Coughlin declined to say if Wilson, a 2012 first-round
draft pick out of  Virginia Tech , will start Sept. 15 at home
against the  Denver Broncos .  The game will be the first meeting between quarterback
brothers Eli Manning and  Peyton Manning  since the latter moved
to the Broncos. As an Indianapolis Colt, Peyton Manning, 35,
went 2-0 against his now 32-year-old brother.  ‘He’ll Learn’  After fumbling on his first carry of the season, Wilson was
stripped of the football by the Cowboys. Safety Barry Church
returned the fumble 27 yards for a score to give Dallas a 20-10
lead at home. Coughlin said Wilson made it clear in a
conversation yesterday that he’s “anxious to improve,” while
the coach said he’ll give the 22-year-old another chance because
“we need him.”  “We did preach so much about them being ball strippers and
somehow, some way, that didn’t sink in,” Coughlin said. “He
had the ball stripped twice. As I say, he’ll learn from it. He
has great pride and we’ll try to get this under control.”  The Giants also are missing running back Andre Brown with a
broken leg. Da’Rel Scott, who replaced Wilson, and Michael Cox,
a rookie out of the University of Massachusetts, are the team’s
only other running backs.  McGahee, 31, ran for 731 yards and four touchdowns for the
Broncos last season. Jacobs, also 31, played his first seven
seasons for the Giants and joined the  San Francisco 49ers  in
2012. He had five rushes for seven yards before being waived in
December. McKnight, 25, played for the Jets from 2010 to 2012.
He had 30 carries last season for 179 yards.  Wilson had one fumble in 71 carries last season.  “Early on, he had some errors last year and then he had a
tremendous year as a kick returner, taking some real shots and
was able to secure the ball in those circumstances,” Coughlin
said. “We’ve been down this road before and we think we can
have an impact on him being a better ball carrier, a better
secure ball carrier. We’ll get that done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  