-- Nintendo Slumps After Stock Excluded From Nikkei 225
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-09-09T06:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nintendo-slumps-after-stock-excluded-from-nikkei-tokyo-mover.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s largest
maker of video games, fell the most in more than two years as
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets cut the stock to sell after the
company wasn’t added to the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average.  The  shares  fell 8.4 percent to 10,860 yen as of the close
of trade in  Tokyo , the biggest drop since July 2011. Before
today, the Kyoto-based company had gained 31 percent this year
amid expectation the transfer of its listing to Tokyo from  Osaka 
may see the stock added to the Nikkei.  Nintendo last month cut the price of its Wii U video-game
console in the U.S., ahead of new machines from Sony Corp. and
Microsoft Corp., amid stalling sales and delays to new software
titles. President Satoru Iwata took the helm of U.S. operations
to drive growth as combined sales for its hardware totaled 1.8
million units in the quarter ended June, down from 3.1 million
units a year earlier, as customers migrate to mobile devices for
playing online games.  “The early signs of key first-party software inducing a
major turnaround in Wii U console fundamentals are not
promising, and the outlook for third-party support is grim,”
 Jay Defibaugh , an analyst at CLSA in Tokyo, said in a report in
which he cut the stock to sell from buy. “The value of iconic
Nintendo franchises may be declining as younger generations
discover gaming through mobile devices.”  Nikkei Review  Nintendo shifted its main listing after the merger of the
cash-equities platforms of the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges,
a move that would have made it eligible for inclusion for the
Nikkei. Nikkei Inc., which compiles the Nikkei 225, said Sept. 6
 it will add   Nitto Denko Corp. (6988)  and  Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corp. (3289) 
to the measure. The changes to the gauge are the first since the
bourse merger.  “We believe Nintendo’s shares have been overvalued due to
speculative demand, on the assumption that they would be
included in the Nikkei,” Takao Suzuki, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in Tokyo, said in a Sept. 6 report. “As this
expectation has come to nothing, this appears to be the right
time to sell.”  The Kyoto-based game-maker, which has a market value of
$15.4 billion, may be considered too big for addition to the
gauge, Nomura Holdings Inc. quantitative analysts led by Tomoyo
Izumi and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  analysts headed by Hayato Nagayoshi wrote on June 28.  A review of membership in the Nikkei 225 is typically held
once a year in autumn and implemented in early October,
according to the  Nikkei website . An extraordinary replacement
can be announced in the event of bankruptcy, mergers or
corporate restructuring, it said.  While Nintendo’s 3DS handheld player enabled the company to
hold the position as the most popular platform in the U.S. in
August for a third month, the Wii U has foundered on a lack of
its own new titles and those of third-party developers.  The
company will start selling an entry-level 2DS portable machine
going on sale Oct. 12 for $129.99.  The company, which created blockbusters like  Super Mario ,
Zelda and Donkey Kong in the 1980s, has struggled to adapt to a
consumer shift to smartphones and tablet computers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  