-- No Safety Benefit Found in Use of Robot for Hysterectomy
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-09-10T14:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/no-safety-benefit-found-in-use-of-robot-for-hysterectomy.html
Surgery to remove the uterus using
a $1.5 million robot from  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  doesn’t reduce
complications and may raise pneumonia risk compared with
conventional less-invasive techniques, according to a second
extensive study to find no added benefit from the devices.  Researchers examined data from about 16,000 women who had
hysterectomies for benign conditions in 2009 and 2010. The robot
operations cost hospitals $2,489 more per procedure with a
similar complication rate as the standard practice of removing
the uterus with minimally invasive equipment, according to the
study released in the journal  Obstetrics & Gynecology .  “Unfortunately, the greater costs associated with robotic-assisted hysterectomy were not reflected in improvement in
outcomes,” said researchers at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at  Dallas .  The results released yesterday are from the second large-scale research published this year to find higher costs with no
added benefit for robotic hysterectomy. In February, Bloomberg
News reported that U.S. health regulators were surveying
surgeons on the robots following a rise in reports that included
as many as 70 deaths since 2009. In July, Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive said sales growth slowed in the second quarter
and that it had received a regulatory warning letter concerning
reporting issues for the devices.  Intuitive  fell  less than 1 percent to $384.52 at 9:52 a.m.
 New York  time. The shares have declined 33 percent since Feb.
27, the day before Bloomberg News reported the Food and Drug
Administration survey of surgeons about the products.  Top Product  The company’s da Vinci system, used in more than 1,300
hospitals, is its primary product. Revenue from the robot and
related instruments and supplies generated $1.8 billion in 2012,
Intuitive has reported.  In the study released yesterday, while patients who got
robotic hysterectomies had a lower rate of needing blood
transfusions, they had double the risk of getting pneumonia
after the operation.  The pneumonia finding may be related to a trend toward a
higher number of robotic hysterectomy patients needing
intubation after their operation, the  University of Texas
Southwestern  researchers wrote. Lengthy robotic operations with
patients in steep head-down positions may result in fluid
buildup in the airways, the authors suggested. The trend was not
statistically meaningful.  No Benefit  The net result was no benefit in reducing complications for
robotic surgery. The complication rate was 8.80 percent for
robotic hysterectomy surgery and 8.85 percent for a standard
minimally invasive hysterectomy, according to the study.  Intuitive Surgical, in an e-mail, said patients in the
study getting robotic surgery tended to be older, heavier and
had a higher rate of chronic conditions.  “Given these facts, it is likely that a substantial
percentage of patients who received a robotic-assisted
hysterectomy would have otherwise received an open
hysterectomy,” Angela Wonson, a spokeswoman for the company,
said in the e-mail.  In the study, which culled data from more than 800,000
hysterectomies, the complication comparison was based on a
subset of patients with similar ages, obesity rates and health
status.  With standard minimally invasive surgery, called
laparoscopy, surgeons manipulate instruments through several
tiny incisions in the abdomen while looking inside the patient
through a camera called a laparoscope.  High-Definition Screen  Robotic surgery is similar, except that the surgeon sits at
a  console  a few feet away and maneuvers robotic arms while
looking into a high-definition display. Unlike the standard
equipment, the robotic instruments have wrists, potentially
enabling finer control and movement.  In February, a study in the Journal of the American Medical
Association found that robotic hysterectomies for benign
conditions cost hospitals $2,189 more per procedure than the
same surgery without the robot. That research, which looked at
data from 441 hospitals from 2007 to 2010, showed complication
rates were 5.5 percent for the robot surgery and 5.3 percent for
a less invasive hysterectomy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  