-- Norway Oil Fund Buys Stake in NYC Tower for $684 Million
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-09T16:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/norway-s-oil-fund-buys-684-million-stake-in-times-square-tower.html
Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund
agreed to buy a 45 percent stake in a Manhattan office building
from  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  for $684 million, expanding its real
estate holdings in the world’s largest economy.  Boston Properties, the biggest U.S. office real estate
investment trust, will keep a 55 percent stake in the Times
Square Tower and manage the building on behalf of the joint
venture, the Oslo-based fund said in a statement on its website.  The $760 billion fund is seeking to increase the proportion
of its holdings in real estate to about 5 percent and made its
first U.S. property investment this year. Boston Properties put
the tower -- located between 41st and 42nd streets and Broadway
and Seventh Avenue -- up for sale in June.  “We are extremely pleased to form a new and important
relationship with such a strong and reputable organization as
Norges Bank, while at the same time once again demonstrating our
ability to create and realize value for our shareholders through
our development and management expertise,”  Mort Zuckerman ,
founder and chairman of Boston Properties, said in the Boston-based REIT’s own statement.  Norway’s Government Pension Fund - Global, the world’s
largest sovereign-wealth fund, is managed by Norges Bank
Investment Management. The fund made its first U.S. real estate
deal in February with the purchase of stakes in five office
buildings, two of them in New York, from TIAA-CREF.  Property Holdings  The fund has also purchased commercial properties in
London, Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin and Zurich as well as
Sheffield,  England . It held 0.9 percent of its total portfolio
in real estate at the end of the second quarter.  Norway generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and
gas, ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its stake
in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy company.  The Times Square Tower, which includes retail space and
signage, is almost fully occupied, according to Boston
Properties’ statement. The ground on which the building sits is
leased for the next 76 years from the city of New York. The
joint venture will have the right to purchase the ground
starting in 2024, according to the REIT’s statement.  The building, also known as 7 Times Square, was completed
by Boston Properties in 2004. The area is a popular tourist
attraction with a mix of flagship stores, family entertainment
and office occupants including Thomson Reuters Corp. and Ernst &
Young LLP.  Boston Properties rose 0.6 percent to $105.44 at 12:35 p.m.
in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  