-- Norway Election Winners Seek to Bridge Split as Labor Ousted
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n ,   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-09-10T08:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/norway-opposition-to-oust-labor-led-government-exit-polls-show.html
Norway ’s Conservatives will now
need to unite the split opposition bloc that ousted the Labor-led coalition yesterday on promises to cut taxes and loosen the
state’s hold on Scandinavia’s richest economy.  The Conservatives, the Progress Party, the Liberal Party
and the Christian Democrats got 96 seats of the 169 in
parliament, with 99.9 percent of the votes counted. Labor Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s three-party coalition won 72 seats.
Labor prevailed as the biggest party with 55 seats, while the
Conservatives jumped to 48 seats.  Conservative leader Erna Solberg, 52, will need to cobble
together a coalition among her opposition partners, which are
split on how much of the nation’s oil wealth to spend, on
immigration policies and on whether to open up new areas for
exploration in western Europe’s largest oil producer. Solberg, a
native of Bergen in western Norway, is set to be the first
Conservative premier since 1990.  “They have some huge challenges in terms of agreeing on
policy,” said Johannes Bergh, an election researcher at the
Institute for Social Research in Oslo. “The desire for a new
government is really strong on the center-right side so you
might see people changing policy positions and really making an
effort to agree and to have a new government.”  The krone, which opened little changed today, jumped 0.7
percent versus the euro to 7.9069 as of 10:19 a.m. in Oslo after
a report showed inflation accelerated faster than estimated by
economists. The country’s benchmark two-year yield rose three
basis points to 1.74 percent.  Responsible Policies  The Conservatives, which won on pledges to cut income and
wealth taxes, boost investments in infrastructure and ease
mortgage lending regulations, will enter government as the
country hits an economic slowdown. The party has said it will
look into restructuring the nation’s $750 billion wealth fund.  Solberg said late yesterday it will take some days before
government talks can start.  Progress Party leader Siv Jensen, who has called for
spending more of the nation’s oil wealth, said she will be tough
yet realistic in the coming talks. The election means the party
may join the government for the first time since it was formed
as an anti-tax movement in 1973. The party has been an outlier
in Norway in part for its anti-immigration views.  Concern Overdone  “For the first time in the Progress Party’s history we
shall now sit down and negotiate a government platform,” Jensen
said at an election-night rally. “We have said throughout the
entire election campaign that it’s important for us to set a
real mark on that platform.”  According to SEB AB, “concerns of ‘run-away’ fiscal
spending are overdone,” the bank said in a note to clients
today.  “The Conservatives will be the dominant partner in the new
government and have made it pretty clear that the fiscal policy
rule will remain in place,” SEB said. “That said, the use of
the oil revenue to cover the non-oil budget deficit is likely to
be higher in 2014 as measured against the fiscal policy rule
than according to the budget proposal the present government
will put forward Oct. 14.”  The power shift ends eight years with Stoltenberg at the
helm of the Labor-led government. The 54-year-old steered Norway
through the financial crisis and the 2011 terrorist attacks by
right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik.  The Seats  The Conservatives won 48 seats, up from 30 in 2009,
according to the projections. The Progress Party won 29 seats,
down from 41. The Christian Democrats won 10 seats, unchanged
from 2009 and the Liberal Party got 9, up from 2 in the last
general election.  Once a haven from Europe’s debt turmoil, the $500 billion
economy is now struggling to spur demand just as the rest of
Europe surfaces from half a decade of economic pain. While
growth will still outpace Europe,  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s largest
bank, predicts the country will be the only European nation of
the 15 it tracks whose expansion won’t accelerate next year.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and gas
output, will grow 2 percent next year, unchanged from this year.
That will beat the 0.7 percent estimate for the euro area,
according to DNB forecasts.  Labor Drops  Labor, which promised to expand Norway’s welfare system,
lost nine seats to 55. The party told voters it would keep
government spending within a self-imposed oil spending cap to
avoid overheating the economy.  Stoltenberg said he will resign after the budget is
presented in October, according to parliamentary process.  Labor’s allies, the Center Party, got 10 seats and the
Socialist Left Party won 7, according to the partial count. Both
had 11 before the election. The Green Party looks set to join
parliament for the first time with one seat.  Labor, which will set the framework for the Conservatives’
first year in power, this year proposed spending 3.3 percent of
the oil fund to plug budget deficits, staying within the 4
percent rule for a fourth year. Still, with the fund quadrupling
in size since the middle of the previous decade, even sticking
to the 4 percent rule results in faster spending growth. The
government estimates the fund will grow 50 percent by 2020.  Conservative finance spokesman Jan Tore Sanner said
yesterday in an interview that the party won’t imperil the
nation’s financial stability.  “We will have a responsible economic policy, we will stick
to the fiscal rule,” he said. “We will manage very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  