-- NYPD’s Kelly Says No Candidates Sought Terror Advice
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-09T21:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nypd-s-kelly-says-no-candidates-sought-terror-advice.html
New York City Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly said none of the candidates vying to replace Mayor
Michael Bloomberg has asked for a briefing on threats from
terrorism.  The public should demand detailed answers from the
candidates on their plans to protect New York at a time when the
threat of terrorism is as great, if not greater, than before the
World Trade Center was destroyed during the attacks on Sept. 11,
2001, Kelly said today at a  breakfast  in  Manhattan .  “Whoever wins will carry daunting responsibilities,”
Kelly said. “Arguably, the most important is to protect the
city from another terrorist attack.  ‘‘Over the past 12 years, the New York City Police
Department has built a comprehensive counterterrorism program to
do just that,’’ Kelly said. ‘‘It’s critically important that our
efforts be sustained in the next administration. But where do
the candidates stand on these issues? Surprisingly, we haven’t
heard much.”  The city will elect a new mayor on Nov. 5, with party
primaries to be held tomorrow. Bill de Blasio, the city’s 52-year-old public advocate, has support from 39 percent of likely
Democratic voters, just shy of the 40 percent he needs in
tomorrow’s election to avoid a runoff, according to a Quinnipiac
University poll.  Poll Results  Former city Comptroller William Thompson has 25 percent and
City Council Speaker Christine Quinn has 18 percent. About 8
percent were undecided, and 18 percent said they may change
their minds, according to the poll released today, which has a
margin of error of 3.5 percentage points.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the most populous U.S.
city by more than 6-to-1. City Hall for the past 20 years has
been run by Republican former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and
Bloomberg, who ran in 2001 and 2005 as a Republican and in 2009
as an independent.  Former Metropolitan Transportation Authority head Joseph Lhota leads the Republican race with 48 percent of likely
voters, ahead of businessman John Catsimatidis, with 24 percent,
according to a Quinnipiac poll of 101 voters released Sept. 3.
The poll’s margin of error was 9.8 percentage points.  Briefing Requested  Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from seeking a fourth
term. Kelly, 72, was appointed by Bloomberg as commissioner in
January 2002, making him the first person to hold the post in a
second administration. He previously served as commissioner from
1992 to 1994 under Democrat David Dinkins.  De Blasio asked for a briefing on the department’s
counterterrorism efforts following President  Barack Obama ’s
remarks on  Syria  and is working with City Hall to schedule the
talk, said Wiley Norvell, press secretary for the public
advocate’s office.  “Bill de Blasio believes there is nothing more important
than protecting New York City from the threat of terror and
keeping New Yorkers safe,” Norvell said in an e-mail.  As the city council speaker, Quinn has talks and briefings
regularly with the NYPD on issues ranging from crime to
counterterrorism, her spokesman, Mike Morey, said in an e-mail.  “In the course of this campaign she has been advised by
and consulted with numerous officials in the NYPD and with
antiterrorism experts because she knows the single most
important responsibility for the mayor of New York is keeping
the public safe,” Morey said.  Terrorism Threat  The public has a right to ask the candidates about their
understanding of the terrorism threat to New York, their
perspectives on the role the police department should play in
protecting the city from attacks, and whether they will continue
to fight for federal funding, Kelly said at today’s breakfast,
which was sponsored by the Association for a Better New York and
the Council on Foreign Relations.  Kelly cited several terrorist plots with connections to New
York in the past 10 months, including a Bangladeshi man’s plan
to detonate what he thought was a 1,000-pound bomb at the New
York Federal Reserve and the Boston Marathon bombers’ alleged
plans to attack New York next.  “Al-Qaeda and those who share its ideology haven’t
forgotten about New York,” said Kelly, who told the audience
not to be “lulled into complacency” by the lack of attacks on
the city since Sept. 11.  ‘The Symbol’  “In the mind of al-Qaeda and its acolytes, New York is the
symbol of all they hate about America and the West,” Kelly
said.  Kelly also responded to criticism that followed the
publication of a book by two Associated Press reporters on the
department’s counterterrorism methods, saying that those who say
the police have been insensitive to constitutional rights are
“wrong.”  The department subjects terrorism probes to a “rigorous
examination” by its attorneys to ensure conformance with city
guidelines for investigating political activities, he said.  “The police department’s investigations are based on leads
and other information about possible criminal conduct,” Kelly
said. “They are never determined by a subject’s religion,
ethnic background or political opinion. However, if we follow
the subject of an approved investigation into a mosque, this
does not put the entire congregation under suspicion.”  Security from global terrorism must be a “top priority”
for the incoming administration, and enough isn’t known about
what the next mayor will do to protect the city, Kelly said.  “We’ve come too far and we’ve sacrificed too much to leave
ourselves vulnerable,” Kelly said. “This is a city worth
fighting for and defending every minute of the day. Our police
officers have done just that. But they can’t do it alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  