-- NYSE Euronext Buys Stake in Private-Placement Startup ACE
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-09-09T16:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/nyse-euronext-buys-stake-in-private-placement-startup-ace.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the owner of the New
York Stock Exchange, bought a minority stake in ACE Group Inc.,
which operates a platform for companies to sell stocks, bonds
and other securities privately.  ACE was founded in 2010 and runs a portal through which
broker-dealers can post and manage securities sales, while
investors can search for offerings, according to a joint
 statement  posted on the startup’s website today. Financial
details of NYSE’s purchase weren’t disclosed.  The move is the latest acquisition by a U.S. public
exchange operator, as falling volume and increased trading in
dark pools and similar venues shrink industry margins. In late
August, Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings LLC said
they would merge, and NYSE rival  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. has made
several purchases this year. IntercontinentalExchange is in the
process of completing its takeover of NYSE Euronext.  The deal to buy a stake in ACE was purely opportunistic,
said Scott Cutler, head of global listings at NYSE, in a phone
call.  “We’ve spent a lot of time looking at opportunities in the
private market,” he said. “We’re making an investment in this
platform.”  ACE usually works with broker-dealers to sell private
company offerings of shares or debt to institutional investors,
said Cutler. It focuses on companies looking to raise at least
$5 million, according to NYSE. The investment will help ACE pay
for a doubling of staff and development of other issuer
services, including investor relations tools, the  New York  Times
said in a report.  Shares of NYSE Euronext were up 0.6 percent at $42.13 as of
12:43 p.m. New York time.  Branching Out  In a statement, the companies said they will work together
to establish technology for the platform to bring “greater
transparency and efficiencies to the private market.”  August’s deal between Bats and Direct Edge will create the
second-largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. In March,
Nasdaq announced a joint venture with SharesPost Inc., an online
marketplace for trading shares in closely held companies, where
brokers can trade stocks of firms before any initial public
offering. Nasdaq has also this year bought the Treasury bond-trading platform eSpeed, the shareholder-relations unit of
Thomson Reuters Corp. and a stake in The Order Machine, a Dutch
trading system focused on options.  ICE’s acquisition of NYSE is expected to be completed later
this year. Chief Executive  Jeffrey Sprecher  has said he plans to
spin off European  stock exchanges  owned by NYSE, while there has
been speculation there will also be job cuts at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  