-- Obama and Putin Could Never Be Friends
-- B y   D a v i d   S a t t e r
-- 2013-09-09T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/obama-and-putin-could-never-be-friends.html
Russian obstructionism and the
increasingly tense relationship between U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  may finally put an
end to talk of friendship and resets.  Russia  is actively sowing confusion over Syria. Russian
leaders have called U.S. claims that the regime of Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons “nonsense” and  claimed  that a
chemical weapons attack in March was carried out by Syrian
rebels. They now  propose  that Syria -- which is supposedly being
attacked with chemical weapons by rebels -- turn over its
chemical weapons to international supervision and subsequently
destroy them. The Assad regime, which is trying to buy time for
itself, “welcomed the Russian initiative.”  This is hardly the first time Russia has sought to sabotage
U.S. interests with the help of diplomacy.  When Obama initiated the “reset” policy in U.S.-Russian
relations, he suggested that the burden of responsibility for
past tensions lay with the U.S., implicitly blaming President
 George W. Bush  for all that had gone wrong.  At the 2009 Moscow summit, Obama  described  Putin’s
“extraordinary work” on behalf of the Russian people. Obama’s
comments came despite reports from the U.S. Embassy in Moscow
that Russia was a “ mafia state ” and that Putin had amassed a
personal fortune of  almost $40 billion .  American Naivete  Obama has been repeating a mistake made by almost every
U.S. president: assuming they can charm their Russian
counterparts into cooperating with the U.S. and respecting
democratic practices. That mistakenly assumes Russian leaders
share the traits of American politicians.  Although Obama sought to distinguish himself from his
predecessor, Bush behaved in much the same way. During one
meeting with Putin, Bush remarked that after looking into the
Russian leader’s eyes, he was “able to get a sense of his
soul.”  Perhaps the  classic example  of American naivete regarding
Russia is  Jimmy Carter , who threw his arms around Soviet leader
 Leonid Brezhnev  at the 1979 Vienna summit after Brezhnev
whispered to him, “God will not forgive us if we fail.” When
Soviet troops invaded  Afghanistan  six months later, Brezhnev
told Carter over the hot line that they had entered Afghanistan
to defend the country against a foreign invasion. Carter later
said that he learned more about the nature of the Soviets’
ultimate intentions during that conversation than he had in his
entire life.  U.S.-Russian relations don’t depend on the charm of a U.S.
president, but rather on his ability to deal with his Russian
counterpart realistically. Power and property in present-day
Russia are concentrated in the hands of oligarchs with personal
ties to Putin. This group, according to some estimates, controls
15 percent of the nation’s wealth. They ensure loyalty through
corruption and enjoy the spoils of their illegitimate gains in
the West, which is also their  destination  of choice should the
situation in Russia become untenable.  Putin and his associates were reminded of the fragility of
this system in December 2011, when  mass protests  broke out in
Moscow over the falsification of the parliamentary elections.
Since then, Putin has intensified anti-Western propaganda as
controls over civil society have tightened. This isn’t because
of any action by the U.S., but because the image of an external
threat is the best way to distract ordinary Russians from the
abuses of their own government.  When Putin announced that he was ready to grant asylum to
Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor,
he said Snowden would have to stop releasing information and
“hurting our American partners.” Yet in the weeks since
Snowden was granted asylum in Russia, the leaks have  continued .  People’s Champion  We can expect further attempts by Russia to frustrate U.S.
policy over  Syria . By defending Syria, Russia seeks to position
itself as the champion of disadvantaged people against worldwide
U.S. aggression, in this way becoming an equal of the U.S. This
image resonates with the Russian people and is the perfect way
to distract them from the pillaging of the Putin regime.  A real reset in U.S.-Russian relations would take into
account Russian interference and indifference to U.S. security.
Some bilateral agreements might be off the table -- at least
temporarily. But all experience with Russia shows that the U.S.
gains most in the long run when it treats Russia as it is rather
than the country it would like it to be.  (David Satter is an adviser in Moscow to Radio Liberty and
a fellow of the Hudson Institute and  Johns Hopkins University .
His  latest book  is “It Was a Long Time Ago, and It Never
Happened Anyway: Russia and the Communist Past.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Satter at  satter.david@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 