-- Obama Defends Jobs Record to Skeptical AFL-CIO Delegates
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-10T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/obama-defends-jobs-record-in-video-address-to-afl-cio.html
President  Barack Obama  defended his
record on helping U.S. workers in a speech to the AFL-CIO
convention amid signs of discontent with his labor policies
among union leaders and rank-and-file members.  Obama yesterday told the largest U.S. labor organization
that his administration has worked to lower unemployment, lift
the manufacturing sector and lower taxes for middle-class
families. Since the financial crisis, U.S. businesses have
created 7 million jobs and the automobile industry is leading a
comeback of the nation’s manufacturing sector, he said.  “We’re not yet where we need to be,” Obama said.
“Middle-class families deserve to feel more secure.”  Originally scheduled to appear in person at the convention
in Los Angeles, which runs through tomorrow, Obama canceled
because of the crisis in  Syria . Instead, he delivered brief
remarks that were replayed for the 1,650 delegates and guests on
large screens in the city’s convention center.  Labor leaders are questioning whether Obama has done enough
to reverse restrictions on workers’ ability to organize and
bargain collectively and arguing that the Affordable Care Act,
Obama’s signature legislative accomplishment, may prompt
employers to cut back on full-time jobs. They’re also voicing
concern that the economic recovery has been too slow.  During the president’s remarks, delegates responded
politely, though applause was sparse. The labor federation
endorsed Obama’s re-election last year.  ‘Guarded Statement’  Carlos Pelayo, a union organizer from  California  was not
impressed. Pelayo, 59, who works with the San Diego Day Laborers
and Housekeepers Association, said Obama has failed to deliver
on critical issues for workers.  “It was a very guarded statement,” Pelayo, 59, said in an
interview. “He didn’t specifically say he was going to support
raising the minimum wage. He needs to be very specific and be
committal, not rhetorical.”  The convention is taking place as the U.S. labor movement
struggles with declining membership and legislative attacks on
workers rights. One resolution adopted by delegates backs a
labor-law reform bill to answer “employers’ increasingly
sophisticated and well-funded evasion of the intent of the
original act to redress ‘inequality of bargaining power.’”  “All of them, all of us can do more,” AFL-CIO President
 Richard Trumka  said in an interview, referring to Obama and his
Democratic allies in Congress.  “I would always like to see him do more in supporting
working families,” Lee Saunders, president of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which
represents 1.6 million members, said in a press briefing.  Key Voters  Unions represented 11.3 percent of workers in 2012, down
from 20.1 percent in 1983. In  Wisconsin , labor advocates calling
themselves the Solidarity Singers have been coming to the
Capitol in Madison nearly every weekday since the state’s
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  curbed collective-bargaining
rights for public unions in 2011.  Labor groups that worked to get Democratic voters to the
polls, were key to Obama’s victories in 2008 and 2012, according
to  Gary Chaison , a labor-law professor at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts . There’s an expectation that those
efforts will be rewarded, he said.  “Labor’s main concern is not that he hasn’t accomplished
much, but that he doesn’t appear to be fighting for much,” ’
Chaison said in a telephone interview. “After the last election
where much of it had to do with the union doing their ground
game, getting out the vote, they thought they’d be rewarded
mightily.”  NLRB Appointments  Obama echoed a theme sounded earlier in the day by Trumka
when he said that wages are failing to keep pace with inflation.
He claimed credit for filling empty seats on the  National Labor
Relations Board , a move he said will help workers organize into
unions. A standoff with Republicans over the constitutionality
of his appointees to the board was resolved in July when the
Senate approved new nominees.  “We’re a better country than one where those at the top do
better year after year while everyone else works harder and
harder just to get by,” Obama said.  Obama’s success with the labor board doesn’t overcome his
failure to push for the Employee Free Choice Act, a bill
sponsored by the late Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  of
Massachusetts that would have made it easier for employees to
form or join unions, according to Pelayo.  “We expected he would have tried to promote this,” Pelayo
said. “We would have liked to have seen this on the top of the
agenda and it wasn’t. It’s gone.”  Health Law  The convention approved a resolution, supported by Trumka,
to expand relationships with non-union groups such as the  Sierra
Club  and the National Organization for Women, which often share
the AFL-CIO’s goals. The resolution, aimed at beefing up
membership in the federation, calls for exploring “new forms of
membership and representation.”  Three unions, the Teamsters, the United Food and Commercial
Workers and UNITE HERE, have written to Congress calling for
changes in the Affordable Care Act. They are concerned that the
law creates an incentive for employers to offer workers less
than 30 hours a week to avoid having to provide coverage.  The letter “is a sign that union officials are becoming
increasingly anxious as they learn more about the meaning of the
health care law,” Paul Kersey, director of labor policy for the
Illinois Policy Institute, said on the group’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  Los Angeles  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  