-- Obama’s Choice to Run U.S. IRS Worth Up to $27.4 Million
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-09T16:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/obama-s-choice-to-run-u-s-irs-worth-up-to-27-4-million.html
John Koskinen , nominated to become
U.S. Internal Revenue Service commissioner, has a net worth
between $7.1 million and $27.4 million, according to a financial
disclosure released by the administration.  Koskinen said in a letter that if confirmed by the U.S.
Senate he will sell stock holdings to avoid conflicts of
interest and resign as a director of AES Corp. and  American
Capital (ACAS) , Ltd.  Federal law requires nominees to report their holdings in
broad ranges. Koskinen, 74, is a former chairman of  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
who ran the government’s effort to prepare for computer glitches
on Jan. 1, 2000.  His largest holdings, between $1 million and $5 million
each, are a Vanguard Group Inc. money-market fund and his
restricted stock in AES, a global power company. The totals
don’t include the worth of his vested options in  American
Capital , a private-equity firm and global asset manager, because
the value was “not readily ascertainable,” he reported.  Among Koskinen’s stock holdings are many of the largest
U.S. companies that are subject to audit by the IRS, including
Apple Inc.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Google Inc.  The Senate Finance Committee hasn’t scheduled a
confirmation hearing on the nomination, announced by President
Barack Obama on Aug. 1.  The IRS hasn’t had a Senate-confirmed commissioner since
November 2012, when the term of Douglas Shulman expired. Obama
forced out acting commissioner  Steven Miller  in May after the
agency apologized for giving extra scrutiny to Tea Party groups.  Danny Werfel, controller of the Office of Management and
Budget, is the current acting commissioner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  