-- Obama’s Misguided War Against School Choice
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-09-09T18:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/obama-s-misguided-war-against-school-choice.html
One of President  Barack Obama ’s
conceits is that he is a pragmatist who seeks policies that work
rather than pursuing a partisan agenda. On school choice, he
doesn’t live up to the advertisement. His administration has
been relentless in its ideological hostility to the idea, and
seized on every possible pretext to express that hostility.  The White House considers any government funding for
private or parochial education, even indirect funding, to be a
betrayal of the public schools. The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship
Program -- which provides federally funded vouchers for poor
kids in  Washington  to attend private schools -- seems to have
had some positive results, including  higher high-school
graduation  rates for participants. Yet the Obama administration,
not generally known for its tightfistedness, has repeatedly
tried to end funding for it.  This position was terribly misguided, but it was at least
open and transparent. Twice this year, the White House has gone
after local school-choice programs -- which involve no federal
funding -- in a more underhanded way.  In April, the  Justice Department   announced  that private
schools that participate in a choice program in  Milwaukee  will
be subject to new regulations under the Americans with
Disabilities Act. They will be treated as though they were
government contractors. Never mind that the schools have
contracts with parents, not with the government that aids the
parents. Never mind, either, that in the program’s 22 years of
operation no complaint about the treatment of a disabled student
 has ever been filed . A five-year study of the program  found  that
being disabled had no bearing on a student’s likelihood of
getting into a participating school.  The decision will nonetheless raise costs for the private
schools. It will also make them think twice about participating,
both because they want to avoid those costs and because they
don’t want to compromise their independence.  Louisiana Lawsuit  The administration’s latest strike against school choice is
 a lawsuit  against a program in  Louisiana , created by Republican
Governor  Bobby Jindal . The Justice Department is using a 1975
desegregation order to argue that Louisiana should get approval
from a federal court before giving scholarships to students in
some school districts. Otherwise, the department claims, the
scholarships could make Louisiana schools less racially
integrated.  The program is open to poor families with kids in public
schools that have gotten a C, D or F from the state government.
In Louisiana, most of those families are black, not members of
the White Citizens’ Council. The Jindal administration says 90
percent of the recipients are black. The state’s department of
education reports that so far these students are doing better on
math and literacy tests than they were in public schools.  The Justice Department cites two public schools to
illustrate its concerns. Five white students used scholarships
to leave one, “reinforcing the racial identity of the school as
a black school.” In another, the exit of six black students
made a “white school” whiter.  This is racial bean-counting at its worst. Jason Bedrick,
who studies education policy at the libertarian  Cato Institute ,
 calculates  that the first school went from 29.6 percent to 28.9
percent white. The second went from 30.1 percent to 29.2 percent
black. These are trivial changes.  The Justice Department is also measuring school segregation
in a perverse way. It treats a school as integrated when it
matches the racial composition of the school district. Yet the
districts are themselves segregated -- and tying school
attendance to residency makes that segregation worse.
Neighborhoods with good public schools have higher property
values, which makes it harder for poor black families to move
into them. Americans who have enough money exercise school
choice when they buy their homes.  Promoting Integration  Greg Forster, a researcher who favors school choice,
addresses the measurement problem by comparing schools’ racial
makeup to that of their metropolitan areas. He  points out  that
seven studies have found that school choice promotes racial
integration -- measured correctly -- while one found it has no
impact. No study has found that it promotes segregation.  It seems likely that school choice reduces segregation in
large part by breaking the link between residency and schooling.
That effect would, however, be at best invisible to the counters
at the Justice Department. They might even see it as a step
backward, given the way they count.  Forster also found that of the 12 best studies on school
choice and educational outcomes, 11 found positive effects and
one found no effect. The racial integration of schools, while a
good thing, is not as important as getting students to learn
more. A policy that showed educational promise but also had the
side effect of decreasing integration would be worth pursuing --
and so far we have little reason to think that school choice
involves any such tradeoff.  If the Obama administration isn’t willing to embrace school
choice itself, it should at least quit trying to squash it in
the states and cities that are.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  