-- Loeb Reinsurer Seen Topping Einhorn’s on Underwriting
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-09-09T20:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/loeb-reinsurer-seen-topping-einhorn-s-on-underwriting.html
Dan Loeb’s Third Point Reinsurance
Ltd., which had a public offering last month, will probably
produce better underwriting results than  David Einhorn ’s
 Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts said.  Third Point Re’s managerial talent and business model will
help limit volatility, analysts led by  Jimmy Bhullar  wrote in a
note to clients today initiating coverage of the Bermuda-based
company with a neutral  rating . Greenlight Re posted inconsistent
underwriting  results  because of poor risk selection, they wrote.  “While TPRE is unlikely to earn significant underwriting
profits, we believe that its margins will be more stable than
GLRE’s given a difference in business line mix and a superior
underwriting team,” Bhullar and his colleagues wrote, using the
ticker symbols for the two companies.  Loeb and Einhorn started the reinsurers, in part, to funnel
capital to their  hedge funds . Both companies rely on the money
managers’ abilities to boost investment returns and to attract
shareholders. Still, mistakes on underwriting can crimp profit,
as Greenlight Re’s results have shown.  Einhorn’s reinsurer lost money on underwriting from 2010 to
2012 as it faced claims, including losses on contracts tied to
dump trucks and other commercial vehicles. Third Point Re spent
about $1.30 for every premium dollar it collected last year, in
part because of losses on crop insurance.  Third Point Re will probably post an underwriting profit by
2015, the analysts wrote. Chief Executive Officer John Berger
and other  executives  have led profitable reinsurance
underwriting operations in the past and are focusing on low-severity policies that should mitigate volatility, they said.  Shares Advance  Third Point Re rose 1 percent to $13.01 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, while Cayman Islands-based Greenlight Re advanced 1.9
percent. Loeb’s reinsurer has climbed 4.1 percent from its
$12.50 offering price on Aug. 14. Brian Ruby, a spokesman with
ICR Inc. who represents Greenlight Re, had no comment on the
research note.  Wall Street analysts are releasing reports on Third Point
today after delaying recommendations because their banks were
involved in the reinsurer’s  initial public offering .  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  analysts also gave the company a neutral rating, while
highlighting the company’s management talent and lower-volatility underwriting strategy.  Investors shouldn’t expect dividends or buybacks from Third
Point Re, since excess cash is invested with Loeb’s hedge fund,
Third Point LLC, the Citigroup analysts wrote. That contrasts
with other reinsurers, which often  return money  to shareholders
when there isn’t an attractive way to deploy funds.  “Third Point never views itself as having ‘excess’
capital,” the analysts wrote. “While we believe this makes
economic sense, it also benefits Third Point LLC which is
collecting fees based on assets under management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  