-- Tokyo Olympic Win Seen Boosting Construction, Abe’s Recovery
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-09-09T00:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/tokyo-olympic-win-seen-boosting-construction-abe-s-recovery-1-.html
Tokyo’s winning bid to host the 2020
Olympics is boosting stocks today and may give a lift to
 consumer confidence , playing into Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
plan to revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  The  Topix index  surged 2.3 percent to 1,174.66 as of 9:27
a.m. in Tokyo, extending its 2013 increase to 37 percent, the
most among developed markets. Developers and construction
companies led gains. Taisei Corp., a building company expected
to benefit from Tokyo’s selection, climbed 14 percent for the
 biggest  advance on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  “Olympics-related stocks are yet to fully price in the
decision, even though they’ve already outperformed,” Hiroshi Fujimoto, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management
Co., which oversees 638.9 billion yen ($6.4 billion) in assets,
said by phone on Sept. 3. “In the short term the entire
Japanese share market will get a boost from celebratory buying
and expectations for the event’s economic impact.”  With the economy already rebounding from the impact of
Abe’s reflationary policies, winning the games bolsters optimism
that  Japan  will succeed in quelling deflation and stoking
domestic demand. The nation’s output increased more than
previously estimated in the second quarter, expanding an
annualized 3.8 percent compared with an initial estimate of 2.6
percent, the Cabinet Office said today.  “We’ve got a great chance to make Tokyo and Japan shine,”
Abe said yesterday. “I want to overcome 15 years of deflation.
Hosting the Olympics and Paralympics will have good effects on a
wide range of areas such as infrastructure and tourism.”  Too Modest  The government’s official estimate of the games generating
an additional 0.3 percent of gross domestic product on a value-added basis is too modest, according to  Robert Feldman , head of
Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  “Our rough view is that the impact could be at least
similar to the U.K., at around 0.7-0.8 percent of  GDP (JGDPAGDP)  over 7
years, or about 3-4 trillion yen on a value added basis, or
about 6-8 trillion yen on a gross output basis,” he wrote in a
Sept. 4 report.  Japan’s capital, which staged the 1964 Summer Games, beat
 Madrid  and Istanbul to win the 2020 host role, the  International
Olympic Committee  said in  Buenos Aires . Okasan Securities Group
Inc.’s Tokyo Olympics-related stocks  index  surged 45 percent
this year through Sept. 6. The 79-member Okasan gauge includes
companies in industries from construction and transportation to
sports, tourism and retail.  ‘Tokyo Resonated’  “Tokyo presented a very strong technical bid from the
outset,” IOC President  Jacques Rogge , whose 12-year term in
office ends tomorrow, said yesterday in a statement. “All three
cities were capable of staging excellent games in 2020, but in
the end it was Tokyo’s bid that resonated the most with the IOC
membership.”  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc., an affiliate of Japan’s
biggest brokerage, added 5.1 percent.  Dentsu Inc. (4324) , which has
broadcast rights for the games in  Asia , surged 6.9 percent.  East
Japan Railway Co. (9020) , which Nomura Holdings Inc. picked as one of
six stocks to benefit from the Olympics decision, jumped 5.8
percent, heading for its biggest daily advance since April.  The stock-market bounce may not last, Shinkin’s Fujimoto
said.  Short-Lived Rally  “The market’s rally will be short-lived and outperforming
stocks will be sold for profit-taking,” he said. “We have a
long way to go until the Olympics actually take place.”  The Games would have an economic impact of about 2.96
trillion yen and create 150,000 jobs for Japan, according to an
 estimate  from the Tokyo 2020 bid committee in June 2012.  So far Abe’s drive to end deflation in Japan through
monetary easing and fiscal stimulus has mostly benefited
investors and large manufacturers as the yen dropped against the
dollar, boosting overseas corporate earnings and driving a stock
market rally.  The plan has yet to translate into the higher wages needed
to fuel the  consumer spending  required to sustain the recovery.
An Olympic building boom could help change that.  “It’s going to be positive,” said Tadashi Ishii,
president of Dentsu, Japan’s biggest advertisement agency.
“It’s going to boost infrastructure demand and the more
significant impact on the economy will be brightening up
people’s attitudes. The business climate is often related to
attitudes.”  Housing Project  Tokyo is planning its biggest housing project in 42 years
to lodge athletes, a move that may benefit developers such as
Shimizu Corp. and Mitsubishi Estate Co.  The 95.4 billion yen Olympic Village complex would occupy a
44-hectare (109-acre) parcel of land next to Tokyo Bay and would
be financed by developers, Kenichi Kimura, who is in charge of
the finances for the city’s bid at the  Tokyo  Metropolitan
Government, said in an interview in July. Separately, the
government plans to spend 153.8 billion yen for new construction
and renovations at 11 sites, he said.  Shimizu surged 9 percent today, extending its advance this
year to 50 percent. Mitsubishi Estate, Japan’s biggest property
company by market value, jumped 5 percent today and has climbed
38 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  