-- Tokyo Reaches for 1964 Olympic Magic
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-09-09T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/tokyo-reaches-for-1964-olympic-magic.html
Shinzo Abe’s joy at winning the
2020  Summer Olympics  for Japan must have been deeply personal.
His grandfather, Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, brought the 1964
Olympics to Tokyo. That event confirmed Japan’s phoenixlike rise
from defeat in World War II. Its bullet trains, avant-garde
stadiums and neon-lit skyline advertised a country and an
economy prepared to take the lead in  Asia  and indeed the world.  Pundits are already predicting a similar rebirth for Abe’s
Japan after two decades of deflationary malaise. Economist
 Robert Feldman  of Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. Ltd. thinks
that the games could provide Japan with a boost similar to that
enjoyed by the U.K., which hosted the 2012 Summer Games in
 London  -- roughly 0.7 percent to 0.8 percent of gross domestic
product over seven years, or about 3 trillion to 4 trillion yen
($30 billion to $40 billion) on a value-added basis. With the
first of the prime minister’s reform “arrows” -- monetary
easing from the  Bank of Japan  -- already showing results, an
Olympic spending spree could juice the fiscal stimulus that
represents the second arrow.  What about the third arrow, though? So far, despite a lot
of talk about deregulation and structural  reform , that
projectile has remained in the quiver. The really tantalizing
question about  Tokyo  2020 will be whether the games can help
push through the politically challenging reforms that will
determine whether Abenomics works or not, and whether Japan
rises from the ashes again.  Lonely Years  The first and most obvious test will be how Abe’s
government handles the disaster in Fukushima. The two-and-a-half
years after a giant earthquake precipitated the worst  nuclear
crisis  since Chernobyl have been lonely ones for the
prefecture’s almost 2 million people. They have been summarily
neglected, condescended to and left in harm’s way by officials
in Tokyo with other things on their minds.  Abe staked Japan’s Olympics bid on his pledge to clean up
the still-leaking Fukushima nuclear plant. “Given the cascade
of revelations about the Fukushima fiasco, it is surprising that
Tokyo won,” says  Jeff Kingston , head of Asian studies at the
Tokyo campus of  Temple University . “Delegates bought Abe’s
reassurances that the situation will be resolved before then.
Now he has to deliver and under greater international
scrutiny.”  Abe certainly doesn’t want his Olympics mocked as the only
ones to issue commemorative Geiger counters. Japan now has no
choice but to come clean about the severity of the
contamination, look overseas for expertise and solutions, and
devise an ambitious cleanup plan. Indeed, the 2020 deadline
gives Abe the excuse he needs to nationalize  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) , which owns the plant. As I  wrote  last week, the prime
minister could also use the games as an excuse to spread the
“Bilbao Effect” to the rural Tohoku region, which includes
Fukushima, where more than 100,000 people still live in
temporary housing.  The most influential Olympics have always been those that
provide a catalyst at an ideal moment: Think about the 1988
Summer Games in  Seoul , which fueled  South Korea ’s  transition 
from autocracy to democracy, and Sydney 2000, which, pre-Group
of 20, highlighted  Australia ’s place as a global power. The 2020
Games happen to coincide with Abe’s push to open up Japan, both
through lowering trade barriers and getting Japanese themselves
to engage with the outside world after decades of looking
inward.  Robert Whiting, the Tokyo-based author of several books
about sports and politics, thinks the games will complement
Abe’s efforts. “It will further help to globalize Japanese, in
line with Abe’s goal or vision of making Japanese more
international-minded and active,” Whiting says. “People will
be focusing more on learning English to prepare for the
Olympics, and parents will be more oriented toward having their
children learn the language as well.”  Cultural Insularity  Japan ’s lack of English  proficiency  is perhaps the most
obvious symptom of the nation’s cultural insularity. As Abe
points out, English has become the lingua franca of business,
science and the Internet. The longer Japan resists the need to
improve its communication skills, the more it limits its
potential.  The Olympic boost could also give Abe the political cover
he needs to deregulate an economy badly in need of some supply-side shock therapy. Big changes are always easier when economic
optimism is on an upswing. A groundswell of public support would
help Abe steamroll the vested interests standing in the way of
freer trade, increased immigration, upgrades to corporate
governance, and tax tweaks that promote entrepreneurship.  It worked for Kishi in 1964, when he used the proud
inauguration of the  bullet train  to launch a major
infrastructure spending drive. It might just work for Abe in
2020.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 