-- Olive Garden Courts Younger Diners With Tapas
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-09T13:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/olive-garden-courts-younger-diners-with-tapas.html
Olive Garden, purveyor of the Never
Ending Pasta Bowl, has discovered portion control.  In an effort to attract millennials and boost flagging
sales,  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) ’s Italian restaurant chain is
introducing small plates, including Parmesan asparagus and
grilled-chicken tapas. This amounts to a 180 degree turn for a
chain that has long sold big portions to eaters who like a deal.  The challenge for Olive Garden will be encouraging diners
in their 20s and 30s, many of whom shun chain restaurants, to
drop by for nibbles without alienating loyal customers who
convene for regular family feasts.  For millennials, “social occasions generally don’t tend to
be large meals in a traditional sense,” said Darren Tristano,
executive vice president at Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based
research firm. “They’re looking for items they can share,
sample, that allow them to graze.”  Small plates may not be “a clean fit” for Olive Garden,
given its focus on families and boomers, he said.  Olive Garden created the tapas recipes about six months ago
and began testing the food earlier this year in cities including
Atlanta, Los Angeles and Grand Rapids,  Michigan .  After offering the dishes for a limited time last month,
the chain plans to add them to the permanent menu in December.
It’s also trying out more small plate varieties such as garlic
hummus, chicken meatballs and tortelloni stuffed with cheese, to
gauge customer response before introducing them nationwide.  Cash-Strapped Diners  Olive Garden has been struggling in the aftermath of the
downturn as Americans eat out less. Efforts to lure cash-strapped diners with such deals as three-course dinners and
$6.95 lunches haven’t helped much because  Brinker International
Inc. (EAT) ’s Chili’s and Applebee’s, owned by  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) , are
also advertising cheap eats.  As a category, sit-down restaurants are lagging behind fast
food and fast casual joints. Sales at full-service restaurants
will rise 2.9 percent this year to $208.1 billion, compared with
a 4.9 percent gain for fast-food eateries, according to National
Restaurant Association estimates.  Same-store sales at Olive Garden, which has about 820
locations, have declined in five of the last eight quarters.
Darden, which also owns Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse,
recently announced it is “significantly” cutting Olive Garden
store openings to focus on attracting new customers.  “It’s wise to slow down that growth a little bit,” said
Stephen Anderson, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“They’re getting very close to that saturation point in the
U.S.,” which would be between 900 and 1,000 stores, he said.  Trading Discount  Darden has become less valuable to investors during the
past 12 months. While it was  trading  at a premium to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index a year ago on a price-to-earnings
basis, the shares are now trading at a discount. The company has
lost 11 percent in the past year through Aug. 6.  The  shares  rose 0.5 percent to $47.68 at 9:34 a.m. in New
York.  The company is reworking the recipe for its crispy
chickpeas after the seasoning and breading didn’t resonate with
diners in testing. It also increased the size of its grilled
chicken tapas from one to two skewers of meat after customers
said the portion was too small to share.  “If you only have one, people are fighting,” said Jay
Spenchian, executive vice president of marketing.  The small plates, priced at $4, are “expanding the way
people think about Olive Garden,” he said. “The reaction has
been excellent.”  While some customers grab a quick glass of wine and a small
plate, others eat them as appetizers to a larger meal or to
sample something they’ve never tasted before, he said.  Millennial Competition  Olive Garden has plenty of competition in the race to win
over millennials. Applebee’s has introduced late-night specials
such as half-price appetizers and girls’ night out to attract
younger customers. Its Club Bee’s locations stay open until 2
a.m. and sell sangria and bahama mamas to the party crowd.  Outback Steakhouse, owned by  Bloomin’ Brands Inc. (BLMN) , recently
sold a $10.99 steak-tasting option with two or three pieces of
beef with different sauces including brandy peppercorn and
Bearnaise.  Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE)  has small plates including
chicken samosas and fried zucchini.  More millennials are dropping by the Olive Garden in
Irving,  Texas , to sample the small plates, Alex Aragon, the
restaurant’s general manager, said in an interview.  The tapas are “closing the gap between lunch and dinner,”
said Aragon, who noted that it’s easier for the younger crowd to
text and check their phones while munching hand-held bites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  