-- Orange Sees German Mobile Merger Approval Triggering Shakeup
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-10T07:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/orange-sees-german-wireless-merger-approval-triggering-shakeup.html
Orange SA (ORA) ,  France ’s biggest phone
company, said regulatory approval of  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Royal KPN
NV’s proposal to combine their German assets would trigger a
shakeup in  Europe ’s telecommunications industry.  “If  Germany  accepts to go from four carriers to three, it
will create an earthquake in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephane Richard said in Paris yesterday. “It will force other
countries to reconsider their positions on consolidation.”  The takeover of KPN’s E-Plus by  Telefonica Deutschland
Holding AG (O2D) , which sells services under the O2 brand, will get a
close look from European competition watchdogs. With more than
100 carriers in the region’s fragmented phone market and many
struggling to keep up profitability, an approval of the
combination of O2 and E-Plus -- to create Germany’s largest
wireless operator by customers -- would encourage more mergers
and acquisitions in the industry.  Orange would seek to consolidate its position in countries
including Spain and Poland, and consider fixed-line acquisitions
in Belgium and Romania, where it sells only wireless services,
Richard told reporters.  European Union antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia ’s spokesman,
Antoine Colombani, said last week there’s no “magic number”
for operators in a region. KPN and Telefonica haven’t notified
the European Commission, the EU’s administrative arm, of their
official proposal, and they may have to offer concessions such
as asset disposals to win approval.  Vodafone Group Plc and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  also sell phone
services in Germany.  ‘Optimal Level’  With earnings under pressure amid falling prices and
investments needed to upgrade networks, carriers from EE in the
U.K. and Vivendi SA’s SFR in France to Telecom Italia SpA and
Spain’s Yoigo are also considering partnerships or share sales.
EE is a 50-50 venture between Orange and Deutsche Telekom.  “Recent deals in the telecoms market have shown that
politicians have sometimes under-estimated the reality of our
industry, with the heavy investments it entails,” Richard said
at a press conference. “The optimal level of competition looks
to be three carriers per market rather than four.”  Orange rose 0.3 percent to 8.44 euros at 9:13 a.m. in
Paris, valuing the company at 22.3 billion euros ($29.6
billion).  Network Sharing  In France, Orange has struggled to stem a slide in its
phone bills since  Iliad SA (ILD)  became the fourth mobile carrier in
2012, prompting a price war and cost cuts among rivals.  Almunia has indicated that he sees consolidation in the
industry could be helpful, saying earlier this year the
fragmentation “preoccupies” him. Some local watchdogs have
kept to a tougher stance. While the competition authority in
France has encouraged sharing networks, it has said that
straight mergers between carriers are neither possible nor
desirable.  Neelie Kroes, the European Commissioner in charge of the
digital agenda, will this week unveil sweeping reform to make
Europe operate more like a single market. Her proposal aims to
get rid of roaming charges and standardize processes for
governments to allocate resources like spectrum licenses in an
attempt to make the region’s phone market -- which has fallen
behind the U.S. -- more competitive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  