-- OSX Holders Said to Hire Bingham for Possible Restructure
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-09T19:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/osx-holders-said-to-hire-bingham-for-possible-restructure.html
Creditors of  Eike Batista ’s
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  hired law firm Bingham McCutchen LLP
in preparation for the possible restructuring of $500 million in
bonds, said two people briefed on the arrangements.  Bingham, based in  Boston , is approaching prospective
financial advisers on behalf of a creditor group representing
holders of OSX’s dollar-denominated notes due 2015, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private. The group represents about 60 percent of OSX
bondholders, according to one of the people.  Investors are turning away from Batista’s commodities
startups after a series of missed operational and financial
targets. The entrepreneur created OSX to supply vessels to
sister company  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , which last
month hired Rothschild to advise on a possible restructuring
after canceling projects and warning its only producing oilfield
may stop next year.  OSX’s bonds, which are backed by a contract to lease an oil
platform to OGX, fell to a record low 83 cents on the dollar
today, pushing up the yield to 24.8 percent, from 103.53 cents
at the end of last year. In March, the company shelved plans to
sell debt. OGX’s dollar bonds due 2018 trade at 18.85 cents on
the dollar, down from 90 cents at the end of 2012.  Platform Deliveries  Timothy DeSieno, a partner at Bingham, declined to comment
in an e-mailed response to questions. An OSX press officer, who
isn’t an authorized spokesperson, didn’t respond to an e-mail
and a phone call seeking comment.  OSX has two other oil platforms. One, called the OSX-1 is
being used by OGX at the Tubarao Azul oilfield. The OSX-2
platform was delivered to OSX last week in  Singapore  by  SBM
Offshore NV (SBMO)  and will remain in  Asia  until a decision is made on
its future, OSX said today in an e-mailed statement.  OSX-3 will be deployed at the Tubarao Martelo field
operated by OGX. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, acquired
a 40 percent stake in the field earlier this year for $850
million. Petronas said last month that the deal hinges on OGX’s
debt restructuring, while OGX said Malaysia’s state oil producer
isn’t entitled to set that condition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  