-- House Leaders May Pair Stopgap Funding With Health Vote
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/house-leaders-may-pair-stopgap-funding-with-health-vote.html
House Republican leaders put
together a plan to enact a stopgap government funding measure by
forcing the Democratic-led Senate to take a largely symbolic
vote on defunding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  The proposal, which two leadership aides said would be
presented to rank-and-file House Republicans today, would allow
a short-term U.S. spending measure to be enacted even if the
Senate voted not to strip funding from the Affordable Care Act.  “That would be two different votes in the House” on the
spending and health-care measures, Representative Tom Latham, an
Iowa Republican, said in an interview yesterday. Only after the
Senate voted on defunding the health-care law would the House
deliver a bill to finance the government, he said.  The House has voted 40 times to repeal, delay or defund all
or part of the health-care law. The Senate has refused to take
up almost all of those measures. About 80  House Republicans 
insist on stripping the funding as a condition of enacting a
spending bill to keep the government operating after Sept. 30.  Latham said House Republican leaders haven’t reached a
final decision on a plan. The two leadership aides who said the
plan would be presented to members weren’t authorized to speak
on the record because the proposal wasn’t official.  The stopgap funding measure probably would maintain
spending at about the current annualized rate of $988 billion
from Oct. 1, when the new government fiscal year begins, through
Dec. 15, the aides said.  Tim Huelskamp  Still, the proposal may get opposition from some of the
members it is intended to please. Representative Tim Huelskamp,
a Kansas Republican who has lobbied for defunding the health-care law, said at least 20 Republicans would vote against the
plan because it would allow a spending bill to be enacted even
without defunding of the health-care law.  If a temporary spending measure is passed, the possibility
of a government shutdown would be pushed to mid-October, when
the government’s borrowing authority would run out. House
Republicans have said they would seek a new round of spending
cuts or other conditions for voting to raise the debt ceiling.  Obama has refused to negotiate the terms of raising the
borrowing authority.  Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican, said
that if House Republicans don’t succeed in defunding the health-care law as part of negotiations to fund the government, they
would insist on it in exchange for raising the debt ceiling in
October.  Fleming said House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, is considering that course of action as part of the
debt-ceiling debate.  Daily Income  White House officials and House Republicans have said they
are determined not to allow a default on  U.S. government debt .
Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in an Aug. 26  letter  to Speaker
 John Boehner  that the government would have difficulty
functioning on tax revenue of about $50 billion a day.  That’s because the government must make 80 million payments
each month to pay Social Security recipients and military
personnel as well as other obligations such as Medicare
reimbursements to doctors and hospitals, Lew said.  The 80 House Republicans who signed a letter last month
urging their leaders to support defunding the health-care law
are short of a “majority of the majority” that is usually the
benchmark for consensus among the chamber’s 233 Republicans.  A vote on the temporary spending legislation is set for
later this week, according to a  legislative schedule  posted on
Cantor’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  