-- Hovnanian Reports Profit as Home Prices, Sales Increase
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-09-09T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/hovnanian-reports-profit-as-home-prices-sales-increase.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
 best-performing  U.S. homebuilder stock in the past year,
reported a profit for its fiscal third quarter as sales and
prices increased amid a nationwide housing recovery.  Net income for the three months ended July 31 was $8.5
million, or 6 cents a share, the  Red Bank , New Jersey-based
company said today in a statement. That matched the average of
six analyst  estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A year earlier, earnings of $34.7 million, or 25 cents a share,
included the reversal of $37 million of state tax reserves.  While a jump in  mortgage rates  from near-record lows in May
is beginning to affect contracts to buy new U.S. homes,
completed deals for builders such as Hovnanian remain strong,
according to Robert Curran, a managing director at  Fitch Ratings 
in  New York .  “They have had the wind at their back and that’s enabled
them, along with a focus on efficiencies, to show healthy
improvement similar to other public builders,” Curran said in a
telephone interview before Hovnanian’s results were released.  Deals to purchase new homes in the U.S. dropped 13.4
percent in July from the previous month, the Commerce Department
said on Aug. 23. The median price rose 8.3 percent from a year
earlier to $257,200.  Hovnanian’s  revenue  increased to $478.4 million in the
quarter from $387 million a year earlier. The average selling
price was $358,899, up 8 percent. Net contracts climbed 1.8
percent to 1,568 homes and the contract backlog, an indication
of future sales, rose 18 percent to 2,893 homes.  Hovnanian has been able to raise prices because  inventories 
of existing homes remain tight, said Brendan Lynch, a
homebuilding analyst for Sidoti & Co. LLC in New York.  Tight Inventory  “Their average sales price has been increasing quite
significantly,” Lynch said in a telephone interview last week.
“The prevalence of negative equity among homeowners is
preventing them from selling homes on the resale market, and
that’s creating the inventory shortage.”  While rising  mortgage rates  restrained sales in July and
August, the company expects to be profitable for the full fiscal
year with “strong results” for the fourth quarter, Chief
Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said.  “Undoubtedly, a slight decline in consumer sentiment and
the rise in mortgage rates during the same period that we’re
very aggressive in our price increases have affected sales and
took away some of the sense of fire or urgency,” he said on a
conference call with analysts. “However, we’re confident that
any hesitancy our consumers have seen or felt were active with
the higher rates will be a temporary bump in the road to housing
recovery.”  Hovnanian rose 2.2 percent to $5.15 today. The shares
gained 63 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 14
percent advance in the 14-company Bloomberg Industries
homebuilding  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  