-- Lloyds Reports Website Failures as Lender’s TSB Begins First Day
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-09-09T10:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/lloyds-reports-website-failures-as-lender-s-tsb-begins-first-day.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, said some customers didn’t have access
to online banking after the introduction of its TSB business.  “We experienced a temporary issue with our Internet-banking service earlier this morning, which affected the ability
of some customers to log on successfully,” Lloyds said in an e-mailed statement today, without elaborating. “The issue is now
completely resolved and we apologize for the inconvenience. Our
branches, telephone banking and cash points were not affected.”  TSB will operate as a standalone bank from Lloyds before an
initial public offering slated for the middle of 2014. The
lender has 4.6 million customers and about 20 billion pounds
($31 billion) in mortgages and loans, making it the seventh
largest in the U.K., according to Lloyds.  Lloyds has revived 200-year-old TSB, which it originally
acquired in 1995, after Co-Operative Bank Plc earlier this year
pulled out of a 700 million-pound purchase agreement. European
Union regulators ordered the London-based lender to sell the
branches by November 2013 after it received more than 20 billion
pounds of state aid during the banking crisis.  The spinoff has cost Lloyds about 1.3 billion pounds as it
created a separate computer and treasury operation for TSB.
Customer account numbers and sort codes will remain the same
after the switch, according to the bank.  TSB will be run by Paul Pester, who previously held a
similar position at  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Money Holdings U.K.
Ltd. Pester joined Lloyds as managing director of consumer
banking and payments in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  