-- Pakistan Leader Pushes for Taliban Talks in Strategy Meeting
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-09-09T09:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/pakistan-leader-pushes-for-taliban-talks-in-strategy-meeting.html
Pakistan  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif 
is meeting political leaders and top generals today as he pushes
for talks with militants who have increased the intensity of
attacks since his government took office in June.  Sharif, who was elected for a record third term earlier
this year, invited leaders of the main political groups to
Islamabad, including Islamic opposition parties that sympathize
with the Pakistani Taliban operating near the border with
 Afghanistan . Army chief General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani and spy
chief Lieutenant General Zaheer ul Islam are also attending.  “I have suggested to political leaders that meaningful
negotiations with militants should be our first priority,”
Sharif told participants of the conference in comments broadcast
live on television. “I don’t know where we will go from here if
we fail to tackle the menace of terrorism.”  The strategy risks causing a split with the military and
the U.S. -- Pakistan’s largest donor -- as Sharif receives help
from the  International Monetary Fund  to revive an economy hurt
by power blackouts and militant attacks. The U.S. wants
Pakistan’s army to halt attacks from Taliban insurgents
operating on the border before handing over security to Afghan
forces next year.  The army, which in 2009 extended its operation into the
Taliban stronghold of South Waziristan, may be reluctant to
support initiatives that buy the guerrillas time to rearm or
assert their control over territory, according to Talat Masood,
a retired army general and independent political analyst.  Army Opposition  “Pakistan doesn’t have a coherent anti-terrorism
strategy,” Masood said by phone today. “Instead of taking the
bull by the horns, Sharif is trying to pass on the
responsibility to others. I don’t think this approach of getting
all on the same page will work.”  The army dominates security policy and has previously
opposed talks with militants. Kayani said in an April speech
that insurgents were responsible for killing 40,000 soldiers and
civilians since Pakistan decided to support the U.S. war in
Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  held talks with Sharif last
month to win support for starting negotiations with Taliban
insurgents. Karzai has said Pakistan is crucial to bringing the
Taliban and other militants, which still control large areas of
southern and eastern Afghanistan, into talks.  U.S. Withdrawal  Pakistani leaders have let Taliban-affiliated militant
groups like the Haqqani Network operate from Northern Waziristan
“due to their concerns that Pakistan will be left alone to
confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-influenced
Afghanistan on its borders” once U.S. troops leave, according
to a U.S. Defense Department report last year.  Pakistan’s Taliban movement is a loose group of militant
and sectarian organizations that are opposed to the country’s
security alliance with the U.S. and want to impose their own
interpretation of Islamic law.  In June, the Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for
killing 10 people in the mountainous northern region, including
nine foreign climbers. It was the most audacious attack on
foreigners in Pakistan since the Marriott Hotel bombing in
Islamabad in 2008.  Sharif and  Imran Khan , a former cricketer whose group
emerged as the third-largest political party in May’s poll,
supported talks with militants in their election campaigns.
Khan’s Tehreek-e-Insaf party formed a government in the
northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, a stronghold of the
Pakistani Taliban.  Previous agreements between the army and the Taliban failed
to take hold. A 2009 pact to end fighting in the Swat valley in
return for placing the region under Shariah rule was abandoned
after insurgents broke the agreement and advanced to within 100
kilometers (62 miles) of Islamabad.  The Pakistani Taliban withdrew an offer for talks earlier
this year after a U.S. drone aircraft on May 29 killed the
Taliban’s No. 2 commander, Waliur Rehman, the Dawn newspaper
reported May 31, citing the group’s spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  