-- Palm Imports by India Seen Lower for Second Month on Rupee
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-09-10T08:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/palm-oil-imports-by-india-seen-lower-for-second-month-on-rupee.html
Palm oil imports by  India , the
world’s largest consumer, probably fell for the second month in
August as a record plunge in the nation’s currency prompted
buyers to defer purchases. Futures in  Malaysia  declined.  Inbound shipments of crude palm oil and refined, bleached
and deodorized palmolein fell 29 percent to 500,000 metric tons
last month from a year earlier, according to the median of
estimates from five processors and brokers compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Solvent Extractors’ Association  of India will
release data this week. Total vegetable oil imports, including
for industrial use, fell 18 percent to 740,000 tons, the survey
showed.  The rupee tumbled 8.1 percent in August, the biggest
monthly loss since 1992, on concern that a deepening economic
slowdown will deter investors at a time when the U.S. prepares
to pare stimulus, boosting import costs of everything from
cooking oils to crude and gold. A drop in Indian  palm oil 
purchases may help to expand stockpiles in Malaysia, the largest
producer after  Indonesia , just as output climbs seasonally.  “The rupee continues to shock and awe all the importers,”
said Sandeep Bajoria, chief executive officer of Mumbai-based
Sunvin Group. “People are importing less and consuming stocks
already imported before.”  Stockpiles at ports and in pipelines probably fell to 1.65
million tons at the start of this month from 1.99 million tons a
month earlier and may further decline to 1.35 million tons by
Oct. 1, he said.  Monthly Advance  Palm for delivery in November fell as much as 2.1 percent
to 2,349 ringgit ($717) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange in  Kuala Lumpur  today, the lowest level for the most
active contract since Aug. 23. Futures surged 7.5 percent in
August, the biggest monthly gain since December 2010, as a rally
in soybeans and a weaker ringgit boosted shipments.  “One does not know what the cost of the imported oil will
be because of the volatility in the rupee,” said Govindlal G. Patel, managing partner of GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co.
“People do not want to take the risk. There might be a shortage
in September-October.”  The rupee weakened 14 percent against the dollar this year,
reaching a record low of 68.845 on Aug. 28. The currency could
sink past 70 this year, according to Arvind Virmani, a member of
the  Reserve Bank  of India’s advisory panel on monetary policy.  Consumption of cooking oils usually rises during the
festival season, which started in August and ends in November.
India meets more than half its cooking oil demand through
imports and buys palm from Indonesia and Malaysia and  soybean
oil  from the U.S.,  Brazil  and  Argentina .  Daily Needs  “Demand will not fall as it is a day-to-day consumption
item,” Bajoria said. “But the industry cannot absorb the
higher cost anymore, so they will pass this to consumers.”  Vegetable oil  purchases in the nine months through July
rose 11 percent to 8.03 million tons, association data show.
Inbound shipments will climb to a record 10.5 million tons to
10.7 million tons in the year ending Oct. 31 from 10.2 million
tons a year earlier, B.V. Mehta, executive director of the
Solvent Extractors’ Association of India, said on Aug. 20.  Crude soybean oil  imports probably rose 17 percent to
130,000 tons in August from 110,758 tons a year earlier, while
 sunflower oil  purchases may have gained to 80,000 tons from
68,900 tons, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  