-- Paschi Falls After EU Seeks Larger Capital Boost: Milan Mover
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-09-09T07:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/paschi-falls-after-eu-seeks-larger-capital-boost-milan-mover.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
engulfed by probes into alleged misconduct of former managers,
fell the most in three months after agreeing to raise more
capital to secure European Union backing for its bailout plan.  The shares fell as much as 5.1 percent, the biggest drop
since June 6, and were 2.5 percent lower at 21 cents as of 9:36
a.m. in Milan, valuing Italy’s third-biggest lender at about 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion). That’s the same amount the bank
must raise in 2014, more than twice the 1 billion euros
originally planned, as part of an agreement with EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia  Final approval from the EU will enable Chief Executive
Officer Fabrizio Viola to dispose of assets and branches in an
effort to return the lender to profit amid  Italy ’s longest
recession in 20 years. Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank,
will use the funds raised from investors to help repay 4.1
billion euros of state aid it’s received.  The outlook for shareholders is deteriorating because of
the difficulty in raising the funds within a year and the
growing risk that state-owned bonds may be converted to stock,
Milan brokerage Equita SIM SpA wrote in a note to clients today.  Bailout Plan  If the bank fails to raise the targeted amount, the
government will convert Monte Paschi debt into equity, taking
control of the bank. Italian regulators must now write a formal
plan based on the agreement announced on Sept. 7, and submit it
to the EU.  The EU resisted Italy’s original bailout plan and insisted
in recent months on changes. EU regulators indicated they sought
tougher measures on cost-cutting, executive pay and treatment of
creditors to approve the restructuring, according to a July 16
letter from Almunia to Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni.  Paschi’s board will start to discuss the plan on Sept. 11
and seeks to approve it on Sept. 24, the bank said today in a
statement.  Monte Paschi, controlled by Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di
Siena, posted a loss of 279.3 million euros in the second
quarter after net interest income dropped. The lender pays 9
percent interest on the bonds it sold to the government in the
bailout, and must hand over its own stock if it’s unprofitable.  Prosecutors are probing whether former managers at Monte
Paschi, which piled up losses of 7.9 billion euros in the past
two years, obstructed regulators, manipulated the stock and
falsified accounts after stretching its finances with the
purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  