-- PBOC’s Zhou Says LGFV Reliance on Land Sales Is ‘Problem’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/pboc-s-zhou-says-lgfv-reliance-on-land-sales-is-problem-.html
Chinese local government financing
vehicles’ reliance on land sales and rising land prices to repay
debt creates “problems,”  People’s Bank of China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in a commentary.  LGFVs are similar to municipal bonds in more mature
markets, with both relying on future income to fund repayments,
Zhou said in comments published on the central bank’s website
yesterday. The difference is that Chinese financing platforms
rely on land sales and not  tax revenue  for income, he wrote.  “As China rapidly evolves, some local governments want to
accelerate their urbanization and require a huge amount of
investment,” Zhou wrote. “Yet, government finances are
limited, what can they do? So they consider using future income
to bridge the current funding gap instead.”  Zhou’s comments come before the results of China’s first
full audit in more than two years of its local government debt,
which the National Audit Office said in 2011 totaled 10.7
trillion  yuan  ($1.75 trillion). A lack of transparency in LGFVs
prompted Fitch Ratings Ltd. to cut China’s long-term local-currency debt rating in April. China ordered the review in July.  China’s Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao , said at the
Group of 20 Summit in Russia last week that the  Finance Ministry 
will release the findings of its audit in October. The total
volume of debt is expected to rise slightly, he said.  In his comments yesterday, Zhou also touched on the
importance of preferred stocks and convertible bonds to capital
markets as China’s economy and market develops. Contingent
convertible bonds are a source of emergency capital, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  