-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Seeks Capital Gains, High Earners Taxes
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-09T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/pena-nieto-seeks-taxes-on-capital-gains-highest-income-earners.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
proposed taxes on  capital gains , sugary drinks and the nation’s
highest earners in a bid to wean the government of  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy off its dependence on oil
revenue.  The bill sent to congress yesterday along with the
president’s 2014 budget proposal would place a new 10 percent
tax on individuals’ profits from stock sales and dividends,
raise the maximum personal income tax rate to 32 percent from 30
percent and avoid taxing food and medicine. The measures would
help offset a proposed lower tax burden for state-owned oil
producer  Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex, and help pay for
universal social security and unemployment insurance.  Pena Nieto also asked Congress to approve a budget for next
year with a deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product
that would climb to about 3.5 percent, the highest level in more
than a decade, when a proposed $27 billion in Pemex investment
is included. Ratings companies will probably be disappointed by
the decision not to tax food and medicine, while some government
bond investors may be hurt as additional debt issuance boosts
supply of the securities, said  Alonso Cervera , the chief  Mexico 
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Economic Conditions  “The government is reacting to the current economic
conditions in Mexico, and this is why probably they refused to
go with a VAT on foods and medicines,” Cervera said in a
telephone interview. In the  bond market , “the middle part, the
long end of the curve will have to digest the news that there
will be a lot of net issuance in Mexico next year,” he said.  The tax bill would increase government revenue as a
percentage of GDP by 1.4 percentage points next year and by 2.9
percentage points by 2018, according to the bill. The budget
calls for a maximum 550 billion pesos ($41.7 billion) in net
internal debt and $10 billion in external issuances.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 13.1522 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:32 a.m. in Mexico City. Yields on fixed-rate government peso
bonds due in December 2024 fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.31 percent.  Pena Nieto has pledged to boost tax collection as part of a
series of economic overhauls to speed up growth that’s 40
percent  slower  than the regional average over the past five
years. Income from Pemex crude sales funds about a third of the
 federal budget , and  tax revenue  in Mexico is the lowest as a
percentage of GDP among 34 members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Higher Spending  Pena Nieto also wants to revise this year’s balanced budget
to a 0.4 percent deficit to allow higher  government spending 
after lower-than-expected economic growth.  “With this  tax reform , we will all do more for the
country, and Mexico will do more for all Mexicans,” Pena Nieto
said yesterday in a speech at the presidential residence of Los
Pinos. “Mexico will grow more, be more fair and open greater
opportunities for each person to write their own success
story.”  The higher 32 percent income tax rate will apply to people
making more than 500,000 pesos a year, according to the
proposal. Mexico currently doesn’t tax profits from stock sales.  Growth slowed more than analysts forecast this year after
the government reduced spending in the first half, Finance
Minister Luis Videgaray said in a June 17 interview. The
government on Aug. 20 cut its 2013 growth estimate to 1.8
percent from 3.1 percent. Taxing food and medicines, which had
been considered, would hurt Mexican families amid the current
economic weakness, Pena Nieto said.  Biggest Surprise  The lack of a tax on food and medicines was the biggest
surprise in the proposal and could buoy food and retail stocks,
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB said in a research report today.  Retailer Grupo Comercial Chedraui SAB led gains on the
benchmark  IPC stock index , climbing 5.7 percent to 40.42 pesos
at 11:43 a.m. in Mexico City.  Grupo Bimbo (BIMBOA)  SAB, the world’s
largest break maker, climbed 5.6 percent to 40.76 pesos. Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB, Latin America’s biggest retailer, gained 3.6
percent to 33.48 pesos. The  IPC index  overall gained 2 percent.  The government is also seeking a tax of one peso per liter
on sugary drinks. That could affect companies such as  Coca-Cola
Femsa (KOF)  SAB, the largest bottler of the soft drink in Latin
America, and Arca, the second-largest Coca-Cola bottler in the
region.  Growth Forecast  Coca-Cola Femsa gained 0.2 percent to 169.71 pesos after
earlier losing as much as 3.6 percent,  Arca Continental SAB (AC*)  rose
0.9 percent to 85.6 pesos after falling 2.2 percent.
 Organizacion Cultiba SAB (CULTIBAB) , the exclusive bottler of PepsiCo. Inc.
soft drinks in Mexico, rose 1 percent to 31.9 pesos after
earlier losing 2.4 percent.  The government plans to spend 4.48 trillion pesos next year
including investment in Pemex and lowered its 2014 growth
forecast to 3.9 percent from an April estimate of 4 percent,
according to the budget  proposal . Calculations for the budget
were made with the assumption Pemex will export 1.17 million
barrels per day next year with an expected average price of $81
per barrel.  The reform would also end a tax benefit, known as fiscal
consolidation, that allows holding companies to postpone paying
taxes when their subsidiaries post losses. Companies with the
largest deferred tax assets, and thus may be the most affected,
are  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, Cemex SAB, Arca Continental,  Empresas ICA
SAB (ICA*)  and Bimbo, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a Sept. 6 research
note.  ‘Anticipate Turmoil’  America Movil  gained 1.3 percent today to 12.9 pesos, Cemex
rose 1.2 to 15.21 pesos, and ICA gained 3.3 percent to 27.55
pesos.  “We anticipate turmoil in the Mexican stock exchange,”
Deutsche Bank AG said in a research note following Pena Nieto’s
announcement yesterday. “President Pena Nieto’s fiscal reform
initiative should ultimately translate into more robust public
finances. However, the short-term impact on several industries
and companies could prove to be adverse.”  Shares of  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB , the operator of
Mexico’s stock exchange, gained 1 percent to 31.9 pesos.  The proposals won support from Jesus Zambrano, head of the
opposition Democratic Revolution Party. “Essentially we are in
total agreement and there are elements to support” in the bill,
Zambrano said in an interview.  The tax proposal also calls for lowering gasoline subsidies
over the next two years, although at a slower pace than this
year. The plan will also lower Pemex’s tax burden gradually
until it is similar to that of other companies, although changes
won’t take effect until 2015, Deputy Finance Minister for
Revenue Miguel Messmacher said in an interview on the sidelines
of yesterday’s tax bill announcement.  The proposed higher deficit would only be sustainable if
new taxes are implemented, as they’ll “lend support to our
indebtedness going forward,” Messmacher told reporters
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  