-- Pescanova Shareholders to Ask Sabadell, NCG to Take Loan Loss
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-09-09T15:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/pescanova-shareholders-to-ask-sabadell-ncg-to-take-loan-loss.html
Pescanova SA (PVA)  shareholders plan to
ask lenders to accept a loss of at least 75 percent on their
loans to salvage the Spanish fish producer that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in April.  Banks headed by  Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  and NCG Banco SA will
be offered an equity stake in exchange for accepting the
writedown, Juan Manuel Urgoiti, the preferred candidate of Corp.
Economica Damm SA and Luxempart SA to become non-executive
chairman of Pescanova, said in an interview. Shareholders are
scheduled to vote on the proposal at a meeting on Sept. 12.
Urgoiti said he has been pledged more than 30 percent of
investors’ votes.  “It’s time for great sacrifices and those sacrifices have
to be shared out equally,” Urgoiti said. “But it also has to
be done in a way that generates confidence in the market.”  Pescanova sought protection from its creditors after
uncovering more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) of debt in
off balance-sheet financing units. Former Chairman Manuel Fernandez de Sousa-Faro is being investigated for fraud over the
losses and was this month ordered to provide guarantees worth
about 180 million euros to cover his liabilities.  Deloitte, Pescanova’s court-appointed administrator, will
recommend that the company be restructured rather than
liquidated because its underlying business remains profitable,
Urgoiti said. Deloitte is due to publish its report imminently,
he said.  Glass Lewis & Co and ISS Proxy Advisory Services, which
advise institutional investors on how to vote their shares, also
recommend endorsing Urgoiti as chairman.  Urgoiti said investors would have less confidence in
Pescanova if the banks wiped out the existing investors and took
over all of the company because that would create a conflict
with the banks figuring as both equity and debt investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  