-- Philippine Peso Advances on Fed Tapering Outlook; Bonds Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-09T02:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/philippine-peso-advances-on-fed-tapering-outlook-bonds-decline.html
The  Philippine peso  gained for a
second day after U.S. jobs data reinforced speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will proceed at a cautious pace in reining in
monetary stimulus that fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  Payrolls in the U.S. climbed less than projected in August,
a Labor Department report showed on Sept. 6. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  will probably reduce asset purchases to $75
billion from $85 billion at the Sept. 17-18 meeting, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists
after the jobs report. The peso has lost 7.4 percent this year.
Philippine bonds fell before unemployment and trade data
tomorrow.  “Employment is a little bit shaky again,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and head of financial markets
at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila . “It might be good for the Fed
to be not too aggressive in its tapering. This is going to be
positive for those currencies against the  U.S. dollar .”  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 44.36 per dollar as of
10:11 a.m. in Manila, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, advanced one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.01 percent.  Philippine exports probably fell 1 percent in July from a
year earlier, after a 4.1 percent increase the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before government data due tomorrow.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
increased five basis points to 5.0 percent, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services. That was the highest level in
two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  