-- Pitino Headlines Basketball Hall of Fame Class With King, Payton
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/pitino-headlines-basketball-hall-of-fame-class-with-king-payton.html
Rick Pitino , Bernard King and Gary Payton were among 12 members of the class of 2013 inducted into
the  Basketball Hall of Fame .  Also honored yesterday were Sylvia Hatchell, Dawn Staley,
Guy Lewis and Jerry Tarkanian, who were selected for induction
by a 24-member North American committee.  Pitino, 60, now the coach at the University of Louisville,
has won 662 collegiate games, led his teams to 22 postseason
appearances and reached the NCAA tournament’s Final Four seven
times with a record three different schools.  “Coaches don’t just get into the Hall of Fame,” Pitino
said yesterday at the shrine in Springfield,  Massachusetts .
“Players put them into the Hall of Fame.”  Pitino in April became the first coach in college
basketball history to win the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament at two different schools, as Louisville
defeated Michigan. He also won the 1996 NCAA title while at the
 University of Kentucky .  Pitino had a 192-220 record in six years as a National
Basketball Association coach with the  New York Knicks  and  Boston
Celtics . He had just one winning season, with the Knicks in
1988-89, and made the playoffs twice.  King, 56, averaged 22.5 points and 5.8 rebounds per game in
a 15-year career with five teams, including the Knicks and New
Jersey Nets. A four-time All-Star, King led the NBA in scoring
in 1984-85 as a member of the Knicks.  “To put on the same jersey as Knicks legends I watched as
a kid was unbelievable,” King said. “I treasured playing for
the Knicks and the great fans of  New York .”  Payton’s Resume  Payton, 45, played 17 NBA seasons, primarily with the
 Seattle SuperSonics , averaging 16.3 points and 6.7 assists per
game. A nine-time All-Star and nine-time All-Defensive First
Team selection, Payton won an NBA championship with the  Miami
Heat  in 2006 and gold medals with the U.S. team at the 1996 and
2000 Olympics.  Five others previously were chosen for 2013 Hall of Fame
induction through  special panels:  Roger Brown, who was voted in
by the American Basketball Association Committee; Edwin B.
Henderson, from the Early African-American Pioneers Committee;
Oscar Schmidt, from the International Committee; Richie Guerin,
from the Veterans Committee, and  Russ Granik , a former NBA
deputy commissioner, from the Contributor Direct Election
Committee.  The Hall of Fame was established in 1959 and has 313
inductees, including former players, coaches, referees, teams
and other contributors to the game, according to its website.
Players become eligible five years after retirement; coaches and
referees must be retired for five years or have worked fulltime
for at least 25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  