-- Polish Government’s Majority Falls as Gowin Quits Civic Platform
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-09-09T14:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/polish-government-s-majority-falls-as-gowin-quits-civic-platform.html
Poland ’s ex-Justice Minister
Jaroslaw Gowin said he’s leaving the ruling party in protest at
a planned pension revamp, trimming the government’s
parliamentary majority to two seats.  “I got to the point where being loyal to the party stands
in conflict with loyalty toward citizens,” Gowin told reporters
today in parliament in Warsaw. The pension overhaul is “nothing
more than nationalization of private savings” and may “lower
the pensions of millions of Poles.”  The government is seeking to boost its popularity by
spurring recovery in the European Union’s largest eastern
economy, which official forecasts predict will grow this year at
the weakest pace since at least 1997. To get more leeway to
spend, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said last week that the state
will take over and cancel government debt held by privately run
pension funds and make future contributions “voluntary.”  Gowin is the second lawmaker in two months to leave Tusk’s
 Civic Platform  as it trails in polls before 2015 elections. The
party lost by-elections for the upper chamber of parliament in
the south-eastern region of Podkarpacie to the opposition Law
and Justice party yesterday.  Gowin’s decision will leave the ruling coalition, which
includes the Polish Peasants’ Party, with 232 votes in the 460-seat lower house of parliament, including one suspended member
of Civic Platform. The alliance relies on some independent
deputies and members of the opposition Palikot Movement to push
through legislation.  More Departures?  Gowin, who lost a Civic Platform leadership vote to Tusk
last month, said more Civic Platform legislators “will follow”
his example. He’ll stay on as an independent lawmaker and
announce his future plans within a month.  “We continue to have a negligible mathematical majority
and since Jaroslaw Gowin joins the group of independents, this
stable majority should be ensured,” Andrzej Halicki, a Civic
Platform lawmaker, told reporters today in parliament. “I don’t
expect other defections.”  Tusk said Aug. 28 that he’ll consider early elections
rather than wait until his term ends in the fourth quarter of
2015 if he loses his majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  