-- Politico Founder Sees $1,000 a Year Fee for Capital N.Y.
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/politico-founder-sees-1-000-a-year-fee-for-capital-n-y-.html
Robert Allbritton, publisher of
 Washington  politics website Politico, plans to charge
subscription fees of about $1,000 a year for a high-end version
of newly acquired media and politics blog  Capital  New York .  Allbritton, who sold his family’s local TV stations for
$985 million in July, announced the purchase of Capital
yesterday, without disclosing financial terms. Capital, which
will continue to run separately from Politico, plans to hire 24
editors and reporters to add to its current staff of 7.  Founded  in 2010  by former New York Observer editors  Josh
Benson  and  Tom McGeveran , Capital has become a regular read
among New York’s politicians and media executives. McGeveran and
Benson will continue to edit the site, while Jim VandeHei,
Politico’s co-founder and executive editor, has been named
president and will oversee Capital’s business.  “The plan is to take what they already do and put it on
steroids,” VandeHei said in an interview. “Media,  City Hall ,
and politics and policy on the state level -- we’re not going to
be spending money or time outside those three categories.”  VandeHei sees Capital charging about $99 per month or
$1,000 a year for a subscription to a higher-end service. That’s
far more than the $195 annual subscription to the New York
Times, which started charging readers for access in 2011 and
plans on producing a lower-priced product, called Need To Know.  “I anticipate the skepticism and appreciate it,” VandeHei
said of the price. “If you’re producing something that has to
be read by a media executive or a politician, they’re going to
pay for it -- that’s the big challenge.”  Politico Model  VandeHei said Capital can learn from the business model of
Politico, which has a free website as well as  Politico Pro , a
subscription service focused on Washington’s lobbyists and
policy makers that costs over $5,000 a year.  “We have a certain style of journalism, a certain voice, a
certain ability to hire the type of journalist -- whether it’s
politics or policy or media -- that people will want to pay,”
VandeHei said.  Capital will hire six new reporters at the state capital of
 Albany , as well as six more reporters on media, where the site’s
focus will expand to include the business side of the industry,
VandeHei said.  Coverage will include “what the Ben Sherwoods of the world
are up to,” he said, referring to the president of ABC News.
“And what’s happening at the big cable networks, the big
websites -- and really focus on the executive leadership.”  Subscription Prices  Allbritton had wanted to crack into the New York market for
a few years, according to Benson; he and McGeveran started
conversations with the entrepreneur as early as 2009.  “Some of the reasons this deal was so attractive to us is
Politico has built a really good, robust business, and it’s
based on doing a ton of original content,” Benson said.  Given Allbritton’s resources, he could have built a New
York news operation on his own, Benson said.  “He went with us because we’re from here and we’re writing
for a New York readership and a New York-minded audience.”  Some of Capital’s previous investors, who helped raise  $1.7
million  in 2011, include journalist Merrill Brown, who now
serves as director of the school of communication and media at
 Montclair State University ; Andrew Rasiej, founder of the
Personal Democracy Forum; and angel investor Adam Riggs.  “I have very big ambitions for Capital,” Allbritton said
in a statement. “I believe powerfully that nonpartisan
publications with an intense focus on a specific set of topics
can break though quickly, editorially and financially.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net  