-- Porsche $845,000 Hybrid Beats Prius as Hot Rods Go Green
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-10T15:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/porsche-845-000-hybrid-beats-prius-as-hot-rods-go-green.html
Speedy new models from Porsche AG
and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  can beat  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Prius not just off the line but also at the fuel pump as
efficiency becomes a key standard even for elite racers.  Porsche’s $845,000 918 Spyder hybrid, unveiled at the
International Auto Show in Frankfurt, can reach 100 kilometers
(62 miles) per hour in 2.8 seconds and gets the equivalent of
about 72 miles per gallon, based on European fuel-economy data.
That tops the 50 mpg of the basic Prius hybrid.  BMW in Frankfurt introduced the i8, a plug-in hybrid racer
that will get more than 113 miles per gallon when sales start
next year, versus 95 mpg for the Prius plug-in. The models will
join other elite electrics and hybrids such as Ferrari’s 1
million-euro ($1.32 million) LaFerrari and Mercedes’ 416,500-euro SLS AMG Coupe Electric Drive.  These ultra-efficient sportsters help automakers meet
tougher emissions regulations without sacrificing power and
performance. And they break the association between speed and
pollution, shoring up the carmakers’ reputations for innovation,
which have helped them sidestep a six-year decline in the
European car market while underpinning their ability to charge
premium prices and haul in above-average profits.  “We are standing at the dawn of a new era,” BMW Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  told reporters today at the
show. “We believe in electro-mobility and will bring it on the
road.”  Green Efforts  The Frankfurt show, which starts today and runs through
Sept. 22, brings together almost 1,100 manufacturers and
suppliers and will feature 159 world premieres, according to the
exhibition organizer.  Alongside the green efforts, BMW, Mercedes and Audi are all
plotting large-scale expansions of their high-performance units,
which make souped-up versions of their cars, to boost sales and
earnings to help pay for the development of new technology.  “Demand is growing for high-performance cars especially in
markets like  China , the U.S. and the Middle East,” said Falk Frey, an analyst at ratings agency Moody’s Corp. in  Frankfurt .
“The profit margins manufacturers reap with these vehicles are
very attractive.”  Sport Quattro  In Frankfurt, Audi is showing a concept called the Sport
Quattro, a plug-in hybrid coupe with a 700-horsepower
drivetrain. The combined thrust of the combustion and electric
motors accelerate the car to 100 kph in 3.7 seconds. Its mileage
of about 94 mpg is meant to demonstrate that efficiency and
performance can go hand in hand.  “The one thing doesn’t rule out the other,” Axel Strotbek, Audi’s chief financial officer, said of the company’s
push to raise its image with sportier models while at the same
time cutting overall emissions.  Audi’s high-performance Quattro unit plans to roll out more
models like the RS 5 convertible, the RS 7 coupe and RS Q3
sport-utility vehicle. The effort is being flanked by the
introduction of a plug-in hybrid version of the A3 compact as VW
plans to roll out the technology across the group.  VW is betting “that plug-in hybrids offer the best
bridging technology” until pure-electric cars become more
viable, said Tim Urquhart, an analyst with IHS Automotive in
 London . With demand for such vehicles still low, carmakers
“hope the new market entrants launched at Frankfurt will create
a tipping point.”  Panamera Plug-In  The limited-run Spyder hybrid will be Porsche’s most
expensive model ever when deliveries start at the end of this
year. The car follows on a plug-in hybrid version of the
Panamera four-door coupe. The 918 combines a gasoline engine
with two electric motors for a total of 887-horsepower to push
the car to a top speed of 198 miles per hour.  “With this exclusive super sports car, Porsche is pushing
the limit of what’s technically possible,” said Matthias Mueller, head of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche brand. “We’ll prove
even to critical observers that sports cars have a great
electric future,” Mueller said at a briefing in Stuttgart,
Germany, ahead of the 918’s show debut.  BMW’s i8, which was featured in the latest “Mission:
Impossible” movie, combines a 131-horsepower electric motor to
turn the front wheels with a 231-horsepower, three-cylinder
gasoline engine for the rear. It accelerates to 100 kph in 4.5
seconds and can drive 35 kilometers solely on electric power.
The i8, which BMW said today will cost $135,925, is the second
model in BMW’s efficiency-focused “i” subbrand after the
battery-powered i3 city car.  Uniqueness ‘Challenge’  “We’ve created a sports car with the consumption of a
small car,” Herbert Diess, BMW’s development chief, said today
in an interview in Frankfurt. “The biggest challenge was that
there wasn’t any previous model at all,” as the company
developed the carbon-fiber body with a low center of gravity, a
gull-wing door and a three-cylinder engine. “Now is the right
time for electric cars.”  The Munich-based carmaker will also bring to market a plug-in hybrid version of the X5 sport-utility vehicle in 2015,
reflecting the company’s intention to introduce the technology
in its mainstream models. “The plug-in hybrid is already
standard for us, and a version will be included in every model
series,” Diess said.  “BMW is leading in terms of innovation,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany .
“While Audi and Mercedes are lagging, BMW’s power to innovate
is one of reasons for its success.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Maier in Frankfurt via 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  