-- Professor Who Helped Pop Junk Bubble Says Trace Slows Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-09-09T18:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/professor-who-helped-pop-80s-junk-bubble-says-trace-slows-trade.html
The decade-old system of publicly
reporting U.S. corporate bond transactions reduced trading while
cutting price volatility in the $4.2 trillion-a-year market,
according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
Harvard University.  High-yield bonds were affected the most, according to the
study using data from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s Trace bond-reporting system, which was introduced in
four stages beginning in 2002. In the 90 days after the final
three phases started, trading fell 15.2 percent and price
dispersion shrank 8.5 percent, the  study  dated Sept. 4 found.  The findings from the MIT and Harvard researchers --
including Paul Asquith, whose 1989 paper on junk bonds helped
burst a bubble in that market -- coincide with a government-mandated shift toward public reporting of swaps transactions. In
corporate bonds, new regulations are prompting firms to pare
holdings traditionally used to facilitate trading, driving
volume to the lowest ever as a proportion of outstanding debt,
Finra data show.  “Mandated post-trade transparency in the corporate-bond
market leads to an overall reduction in trading activity,”
according to the paper by MIT’s Asquith and Parag Pathak and
Harvard’s Thomas Covert. “Transparency also causes a
significant reduction in price dispersion.”  Junk Losses  Trading of junk bonds declined the most in the 90 days
after the change, falling 41.3 percent, according to the report.
The daily standard deviation of prices shrank 24.7 percent for
high-yield securities, or debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Lower price volatility “is also evident using other
measures of price dispersion such as the difference between the
maximum and minimum price on a given day and price standard
deviation measures computed over longer time windows,” the
authors wrote.  Asquith’s 1989 study showed the default rate for junk bonds
was higher than generally accepted, the  New York  Times said in
1992. Investors in high-yield securities lost 4.4 percent in
1990 after gaining 16 percent the previous two years, according
to data compiled by Bank of America Corp.  The effects of less liquidity were seen almost five years
ago when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze
markets from overnight lending to swaps, sparking the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Matching Hypothesis  The findings from the latest study “aren’t terribly
shocking,” said Kevin McPartland, head of market structure
research at Greenwich Associates. “It’s what people have always
hypothesized was the case.” He said looking past the 90-day
period after the Trace phases were put in place may show whether
liquidity returned.  Dealers have scaled back principal trading amid pressure to
increase capital to meet international standards and as
transparency created by Trace lowers profits, consulting firm
Tabb Group LLC said in an April report.  The 21  primary dealers  authorized to trade with the Federal
Reserve have cut corporate-debt holdings by 39 percent, to $11.4
billion on Aug. 28 from $18.7 billion on April 3. That follows a
76 percent reduction in inventories from the peak in 2007
through March, when the Fed changed the way it reported the
data.  Stocks Parallel  The study from MIT and Harvard shows that government
attempts to improve the quality of markets may have multiple
consequences, especially when they affect incentives for
middlemen such as market makers or banks. While the system for
reporting trades in real time provided a stronger anchor for
prices, firms traded less as a result, the study found.  Parallels may exist in equities a decade ago when the U.S.
ruled that stocks should trade in increments of pennies instead
of fractions of a dollar. As spreads narrowed, profits dropped
for market makers. The number of firms that facilitate trading
on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange has declined to  six 
designated market makers, as the firms are now known, from
dozens of so-called specialists in prior decades.  The authors said investors may benefit from tighter bond
pricing because of Trace, though the effect on transaction costs
may not be in their favor.  “One consequence is that it may change the relative
bargaining positions of investors and dealers, allowing
investors to obtain fairer prices at the expense of dealers,”
according to the report. “The reduction of price dispersion
likely benefits customers and possibly, but not necessarily,
dealers.”  Reducing Noise  The report also contended that less trading may hurt
investors if, instead of reducing “noise” from the market, the
reduction slows how quickly new information alters prices.  Also, “if the decrease in trading activity is the result
of dealers’ unwillingness to hold inventory, transparency will
have caused a reduction in the range of investing
opportunities,” they said. “That is, even if a decline in
price dispersion reflects a decrease in transaction costs, the
concomitant decrease in trading activity could reflect an
increased cost of transacting due to the inability to complete
trades.”  Applying the same transparency standards to different parts
of the same market isn’t always good for investors, the authors
wrote.  Weighing Benefits  “The implicit assumption underlying the proposed Trace
extensions and the use of Trace as a template for regulations
such as Dodd-Frank is that transparency is universally
beneficial,” they said. “The expansion of Trace-inspired
regulations, such as those for 144a bonds, asset- and mortgage-backed securities, and the swap market, may have adverse
consequences on trading activity and may not, on net, be
beneficial.”  That may be because different segments of the same market
react differently by public price reporting, they said. “Our
results provide empirical support for the view that not every
segment of each security market should be subject to the same
degree of mandated transparency.”  Greenwich’s McPartland said it’s difficult to draw
comparisons between the effects of increased transparency in
bond and swaps markets because of their many differences, such
as there being no retail investors in the swaps market, the
requirement for most swaps to trade publicly and the clearing
and margin requirements for swaps that don’t apply to bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  