-- Puerto Rico Yield Penalty Doubles as Island’s Economy Shrinks
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-09T16:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/puerto-rico-yield-penalty-doubles-as-island-s-economy-shrinks.html
The extra yield on  Puerto Rico 
general-obligation bonds has doubled in the past four weeks as
its economy in July shrank the most in 41 months.  Puerto Rico bonds maturing July 2040 and rated one step
above junk traded today with yields as high as 10.08 percent,
the highest this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
average yield, 9.59 percent, is 4.83 percentage points more than
top-rated munis with similar maturity. That’s twice the lowest
spread this year, on Aug. 6.  “Spreads have been widening, people are averse to taking
risk in the market and there’s an awful lot of concern about
Puerto Rico and where it’s going,” said Matt Fabian, managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors.  Debt sold in Puerto Rico is tax-exempt in all U.S. states,
making the securities more attractive for state-specific muni
mutual funds. The island’s economy contracted 5 percent in the
year through July, the steepest reduction since February 2010,
according to the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico,
which handles capital-market transactions for the commonwealth.  Municipal debt sold on the island lost 17.4 percent this
year as of Sept. 6, surpassing annual losses for the island
since at least 2000, according to  Standard & Poor’s  total return
data. That’s more than three times the 5.3 percent loss in the
broader $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market in 2013.  Puerto Rico is on the edge of a speculative-grade bond
rating amid recurring budget deficits and a pension system with
a lower funding level than that of any U.S. state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  