-- Random Passengers to Get Quicker Screening, TSA Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/random-passengers-to-get-quicker-screening-tsa-says.html
U.S. travelers will be chosen on a
case-by-case basis to use expedited-screening lines at airports
without having to provide more personal information than they
now give airlines, the  Transportation Security Administration 
said.  Passengers will be chosen after a background check,  before
they get to the airport, the agency said in a  notice  to be
published today in the Federal Register.  They won’t have to be enrolled in TSA’s PreCheck program,
be a frequent flier, or sign up for  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection ’s Global Entry program, the agency said.  The TSA announced last week it would expand the PreCheck
program to 100 airports, from 40 now. It has also evaluated
other ways to divert passengers into the expedited-screening
lines, including a pilot program with bomb-sniffing dogs.  The agency has set a goal of having 25 percent of U.S.
airline traffic using PreCheck by the end of next year, up from
about 2 percent last year, to help speed up airport security.  PreCheck allows passengers to avoid full-body scans and
some of the rules that have become common at U.S. airport
security checkpoints.  Passengers eligible for PreCheck lines go through a
streamlined screening similar to those from before the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. They keep their shoes, belts and light
jackets on. Laptops and liquids stay in their bags.  Expanding PreCheck  In July, TSA announced a plan to enroll passengers willing
to pay $85 for five years into PreCheck. That kind of enrollment
-- which will allow more frequent use of the expedited lanes
than the program disclosed today -- requires an interview and
certain personal information, including date of birth, address,
height, weight and hair color. That’s the same kind of
information required under the U.S. Customs programs.  Under the latest initiative, passengers won’t have to
provide personal information beyond their names, date of birth
and gender -- which they already provide to airlines to check
against terrorist watch lists, the agency said.  TSA will incorporate random, unpredictable security
measures and no individual will be guaranteed expedited
screening, said  David Castelveter , an agency spokesman.  Advocates for expanding PreCheck have said eligibility is
too restricted, limiting its potential to speed security checks
and make screening less invasive for people who pose no risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  