-- Transgender 6-Year-Olds in Bathroom Spur Repeal Effort
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-09-09T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/transgender-6-year-olds-in-bathroom-spurs-repeal-effort.html
Californians jolted by the mental
image of children sharing lavatories and locker rooms with
opposite-sex classmates are campaigning to repeal the nation’s
first  law  requiring schools to accommodate transgender pupils.  The law, which takes effect Jan. 1, requires all schools
receiving state funds to let children choose between boys’ or
girls’ bathrooms, for instance, and participate in sex-segregated sports teams based on their gender identity rather
than their biological sex.  The drive to put a repeal on the ballot echoes a 2008
initiative, Proposition 8, a constitutional amendment passed by
voters that banned same-sex unions. California resumed gay
weddings in June following a Supreme Court ruling.  “It is just fundamentally wrong,” said Doug Boyd, a
lawyer circulating petitions in the  Los Angeles  suburb of
Glendora. “It’s against the laws of God and nature.”  Boyd, 60, said he can’t stomach the idea of his 6- and 7-year-old daughters sharing school bathrooms, showers or locker
rooms with a boy who sees himself as a girl.  A  coalition  led by the  Capitol Resource Institute , a
Sacramento-based nonprofit group that promotes itself as a
“watchdog for family values,” is seeking about 500,000
signatures to put a repeal on the 2014 ballot.  “This law just goes way too far,” said Karen England,
executive director of the institute and a co-leader of the
petition drive. “We need to protect the privacy of all
students, not just some students.”  Opposite Sex  Transgender people are those who are born as one sex, yet
behave and maintain an appearance consistent with the other sex.
While  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,  Washington  and  Colorado  have
policies on transgender schoolchildren, only California has
incorporated them into its laws, according to Equality
California, the state’s largest gay-rights group.  The law’s supporters, which include the California State
PTA and Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old Democrat,
underestimated the public backlash, Boyd said. He said he
expects to easily obtain signatures to overturn the law in his
neighborhood and at his 5,000-member church, Calvary Chapel
Chino Hills.  “I have a 6-year-old daughter and a 7-year-old daughter in
public schools and I’ll be darned if there are boys in their
bathrooms,” Boyd said. He said he’d put the girls in another
school before making them share bathrooms, locker rooms and
sports teams with opposite-sex peers.  Accommodation Plan  Michelle Hunter, the Glendora Unified School District’s
assistant superintendent for educational services, said
officials at the  7,700-student  system are awaiting policy
guidance on the law from lobbyists for school boards in
 Sacramento . Hunter said she doesn’t anticipate any costs from
the law, as Glendora already has some restrooms for individual
students. Boyd said he’s unaware of any transgender students
attending his children’s school in Glendora, about 30 miles (45
kilometers) northeast of  downtown Los Angeles . Hunter said she
couldn’t disclose any information on the number of such
students.  In the  Los Angeles Unified School District , about 0.5
percent of its 153,000 high-schoolers, or about 763, self-identified as transgender in a 2011 survey, said Judy Chiasson,
program coordinator for human relations, diversity and equity.  The Los Angeles and  San Francisco  school districts already
have policies allowing students to use facilities and join
sports teams based on their gender identity. Los Angeles
administrators have spent “negligible” time accommodating
transgender students and there has been no expense to the
district, Chiasson said.  Without Incident  In San Francisco, transgender students have used opposite-sex facilities for a decade without incident or cost to the
district, said a spokeswoman, Gentle Blythe.  “Most students want privacy so we work out a way they can
use the bathroom discreetly if that is what he or she prefers,”
Blythe said by e-mail.  Neither school system tracks the number of students who
have requested special accommodations, Chiasson and Blythe said.  Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, the San Francisco Democrat who
wrote the law, described it as an “important victory” for the
rights of transgender people and said it would help children
express their true identities. He said he’s not worried by the
petition drive.  “The referendum is to be expected,” he said in a
statement. “I think it’s marginal, but we’ll watch it.”  The repeal effort faces long odds: Of 76 referendums that
qualified for circulation in  California  since 1912, only 19, or
one-fourth, have been passed by voters,  according  to Secretary
of State Debra Bowen’s office.  Law Suspended  The repeal advocates have until Nov. 10 to submit their
petition. If they gather enough valid signatures to qualify for
the November 2014 ballot, the law would be suspended pending the
outcome of the vote, according to Bowen’s office.  England said the campaign against the law stresses the loss
of privacy for non-transgender students sharing restrooms,
locker rooms and sports teams with peers of the opposite sex,
rather than moral objections.  Opponents also are concerned that California may set a
precedent for other states, she said.  “It’s going to center around the lack of privacy, the lack
of safeguards and the lack of local control,” England said of
the campaign. “We see this as common sense.”    To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  