-- Record Arkansas Sale Shows 1933 Taint Buried: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/record-arkansas-sale-shows-1933-taint-buried-muni-deals.html
Arkansas , which defaulted on road
bonds during the Depression and became the only state to cost
investors since 1900, will sell $495 million of general
obligations this week to finance highway construction.  After the 1933 debacle and a 1951 issue, Arkansas didn’t
return to the tax-exempt market to finance highways until 2000.
This week’s sale will be the state’s biggest municipal offering
since at least 1990.  “We have eased our way back into bond financing for
highway projects,” said Randy Ort, a state highway department
spokesman in  Little Rock , the capital. “By doing relatively
restricted projects for relatively short durations, we’re
obviously winning the people’s trust back.”  The offering will kick off Arkansas’s $1.8 billion plan to
expand and add highways in 19 areas, Ort said. Voters in
November approved a temporary 0.5 percentage point increase in
the  state sales tax , to 6.5 percent, to help fund the 10-year
initiative. The extra levy expires in 2023.  Arkansas’s Depression-era default occurred after it assumed
responsibility for $54.8 million of securities sold by road
districts in the 1920s, adding the obligations to its highway
debt. The legislature sought to refinance with lower-yielding
bonds backed by the state’s pledge instead of tolls and fuel
taxes, leading investors to object and the subsequent default.  Bonds Burned  In 1972, the state held a bond-burning ceremony after it
made the last payment on a 1941 issue that restructured the
Depression-era securities, Ort said.  The default’s effects lingered for decades as Arkansas went
from among the most-indebted states in the 1930s to 46th in a
2010 report from Moody’s Investors Service. Issuers in Arkansas
have borrowed just $1.3 billion this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  This week’s issue, which matures over 10 years, is backed
by a general-obligation pledge to give investors “greater
security,” Ort said, even though it will be funded by the
sales-tax increase.  The road improvements will ease travel throughout the state
with a goal of promoting economic development and tourism, Ort
said. Voters approved borrowing of as much as $1.3 billion for
the projects, though there is a “strong possibility” no
additional bond sales will occur if revenue is available to pay
for the work, he said.  High Marks  Moody’s grades the debt Aa1, its second-highest level. The
New York-based company credited the state’s low debt ratio and
“conservatively managed financial operations.”  Governments are borrowing with benchmark muni yields at the
highest level since April 2011 after individuals pulled $24.5
billion from muni-focused mutual funds in the 15 weeks through
Sept. 4, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Arkansas’s offering is one of the $5.9 billion of long-term
muni issues to be sold this week, up from $1.5 billion last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This week’s deals include
revenue bonds from  Catholic Health Services of Long Island  in
 New York  and Miami-Dade County,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  