-- Regulator Recommends Price Cut for India’s Wireless Airwaves
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-09-10T05:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/regulator-suggests-reducing-floor-price-for-india-phone-airwaves.html
India ’s telecommunications
regulator yesterday recommended lowering reserve prices for the
nation’s airwaves to attract buyers who stayed away in March.  The floor price for Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata in the 900
MHz band should be cut by about 60 percent, Telecom Regulatory
Authority of India Chairman  Rahul Khullar  told reporters in New
Delhi. The combined price for the telecom circles in the 1800
MHz band should be cut to 14.96 billion rupees ($233 million),
the regulator said on its website.  The reductions follow the failure of a March auction that
drew just one bidder. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
is seeking to raise 408 billion rupees from the sale of
telecommunications spectrum to curb the  budget deficit  to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year started April 1
from 5.2 percent a year earlier.  “We’ve reduced the reserve prices to make the auction
successful,” Khullar said. “If you ask me if the previous
prices were high, my short answer is yes.”  The eligibility rules will remain the same as in the
previous auctions, and no preference should be given to
incumbents, the regulator has recommended.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the nation’s largest phone companies,
didn’t bid in the last auction.  ‘Exorbitantly High’  Bharti climbed 5.6 percent to 331.30 rupees as of 10:29
a.m. in Mumbai trading, headed for the highest close since Aug.
16. The stock was the third-best performer on the 30-company S&P
BSE Sensex index, which climbed 2.6 percent.  Ashutosh Sharma, a spokesman for New Delhi-based Bharti,
said company officials weren’t ready to comment. Vodafone India
declined to comment.  Arvind Bali, chief executive officer at Videocon
Telecommunications Ltd., which had mobile-phone licenses
canceled in February 2012 when India’s  Supreme Court  quashed 122
permits tied to graft, said the regulator’s recommendation will
provide relief to the industry.  “The recommendation recognizes and reconfirms the fact
that the reserve price fixed for the November 2012 auction was
wrong and those who bid for spectrum have paid prices which are
exorbitantly high,” Bali said in an e-mailed statement. “The
recommendations are favorable to existing players who acquired
licenses prior to 2008, and is penalizing new players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  