-- Renault Promotes Bollore, Stoll After Tavares’s Departure
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-09T15:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/renault-promotes-bollore-stoll-after-tavares-s-departure.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, promoted internal executives to two newly created
positions following the resignation of Chief Operating Officer
 Carlos Tavares  last month.  Thierry Bollore, 50, will lead a new managing board with a
focus on developing and building vehicles, while Jerome Stoll,
59, will be responsible for marketing and sales, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Both executives will report to Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn.  Stoll joined the French carmaker in 1980 and previously
handled group sales. Bollore started his career at  Michelin &
Cie (ML)  in 1990 as a shop manager in a heavy truck tire factory and
spent the following 15 years at the company. He then joined the
emission and control technologies division of Faurecia SA in
2005 before being hired by Renault in September of last year.  Renault decided to drop the chief operating officer
position after the resignation of Tavares, who had made public
his wish to run  General Motors Co. (GM)  or  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in an
interview with Bloomberg. The new management organization
broadens the operating responsibilities of Ghosn ahead of a
decision next year by the French automaker’s board on whether to
extend the CEO’s contract.  “Our objective was to take fast, transparent action by
putting in place a clear and simple organization,” Ghosn said
in the statement.  The model-producing managers, dubbed the competitiveness
group, will “reinforce the development of an attractive product
range” while ensuring vehicle quality and holding back costs,
Renault said last week. The sales executives in the so-called
performance group will focus on “growth, market share and
profitability of sales.”  Tavares was appointed to the job two years ago after former
COO  Patrick Pelata  had to resign over a botched corporate spying
investigation in which three senior managers were wrongfully
dismissed. Pelata was the first person to hold the position,
which was created in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  