-- Renold Extends Gains After Plan to Close Factory: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-09T10:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/renold-extends-gains-after-plan-to-close-factory-london-mover.html
Renold Plc (RNO)  rose to the highest price
in more than a year, extending its advance to more than 27
percent since the maker of industrial chains said it plans to
close a factory and the chief executive officer bought shares.  The  shares  gained 6.7 percent to 36 pence, the highest
intraday price since July 2012, at 11:05 a.m. in  London . It was
the second-best performer in the  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)   Renold plans to close its Bredbury Chain factory in
Manchester, the city in northwest  England  where the manufacturer
is based, to reduce excess capacity. The plant wasn’t viable
after incurring “significant” losses in recent years, Renold
said Aug. 27.  “They are doing a lot of different things to restore
margins and that is one of the major building blocks,” Chris Thomas, an analyst at Arden Partners Ltd. with a buy
recommendation on the stock, said in a phone interview. “I’m
not sure whether that completely addresses the capacity issue,
but it reduces it significantly and is a major step forward.”  Renold will probably benefit by more than 3 million pounds
($4.7 million) a year from the plant closing, Thomas said. That
compares with his  estimate  for pretax profit of 6.1 million
pounds in the year ending March 2015. “If you can put 3 million
pounds onto that it is quite a big difference.”  Chief Executive Officer Robert Purcell, who took the job in
January after working at Filtrona Plc, bought 500,000 shares at
28 pence each on Aug. 29, taking his total to 3.7 million
shares. Purcell has bought almost 2.9 million shares since
becoming CEO. The shares closed at 25.875 pence the last trading
day before he joined the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  