-- Republicans’ Immigration Bind, as Explained by Aristotle
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-09T14:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/republicans-immigration-bind-as-explained-by-aristotle.html
It is tempting to believe that a
political party will  act  in accordance with its self-interest,
which is to win elections. Democrats may be wrong, and
Republicans may be wrong, but in the end, neither party will act
in self-destructive ways.  For this reason, many people argue that in the House and
Senate, Republicans will ultimately  support  immigration-reform
legislation, and that they will enter into some agreement to
increase the debt limit and avoid a government shutdown.  The predictions might turn out to be right, but don’t be
too sure. The central argument is rooted in a logical fallacy,
explored by Aristotle, called “the fallacy of division.” The
fallacy occurs when people believe that if the whole has some
characteristic, its parts will have that characteristic as well.
Because the fallacy of division is important, and because it has
so many implications, let’s  explore  it in a little detail.  Here are three examples. 1. A motorboat can move on water.
A motor is part of a motorboat. Therefore a motor can move on
water. 2. Citizens of  France  are thin. Jacques is a citizen of
France. Therefore Jacques is thin. 3. The Baltimore Orioles hit
a lot of home runs. Nate McLouth is a Baltimore Oriole.
Therefore McLouth  hits  a lot of home runs.  When people commit the fallacy of division, they fail to
appreciate the fact that a whole may have characteristics or
abilities that its parts lack. A boat can do things its parts
cannot do. The fallacy may also rest on a failure to see that a
group typically has characteristics that some group members
lack. A sports team may have identifiable characteristics, but
some or many of its players may lack those characteristics.  Now turn to politics. Let us stipulate that it is in the
 self-interest  of the  Republican Party  to support immigration-reform legislation. Even if this is so, it may not be in the
self-interest of particular Republicans to support such
legislation. Indeed, it may not be in the self-interest of most
Republicans to support immigration-reform legislation.  The difference between the group’s interest and the
members’ interest may occur for disparate reasons. But imagine
that to be re-elected, many of the party’s legislators will need
the “cover” of a strong Republican vote in  favor  of the
legislation. If individual members risk their political future
if they vote for the measure, they will vote against it, unless
most or many of the party’s members can make a binding
commitment to vote in its favor. That commitment might be
exceptionally hard to obtain.  For a party’s members, some cases are even more difficult.
Suppose that many voters will be unhappy if the Republicans
block immigration reform, thus weakening the appeal of the party
“brand,” reducing the number of self-identified Republicans
and endangering the party’s prospects for capturing the White
House in 2016. From the party’s standpoint, these consequences
would be pretty awful. But from the standpoint of some or many
individual members of Congress, they might not come close to
tipping the balance.  Suppose that a member’s constituents are very conservative,
that there is a real possibility of a primary challenge from the
right, and that a Democrat can’t possibly win the seat. Under
these conditions, a self-interested Republican might well end up
voting in a way that will hurt the party.  In the current House, a large number of Republicans appear
to think in this way, and some Senate Republicans do as well. Of
course, legislators’ personal convictions may well matter, and
lead them to vote for legislation they favor, but the role of
electoral self-interest can’t be discounted.  The same dynamic affects Democrats. Because of electoral
pressures, individual Democrats may support environmental,
entitlement and civil-rights legislation that is to the left of
the country’s position and harmful to their party’s electoral
prospects.  None of this means Congress will refuse to enact
immigration reform or pass legislation to prevent a government
shutdown and to raise the debt limit. At least on fiscal issues,
Republicans and Democrats have been able to find a path forward.  But let’s not forget  Aristotle . When contested legislation
passes, it isn’t because its enactment is in the interest of the
Republican Party or the  Democratic Party  as such. It’s usually
because it’s in the interest of the particular Republicans, and
the particular Democrats, who end up for voting for it.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 