-- Cotton Futures Rises on Signs China Demand Will Pick Up
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-09-09T19:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/robusta-coffee-falls-to-2-month-low-on-vietnam-crop-cocoa-drops.html
Cotton futures rose to a one-week
high on signs that demand will increase in  China , the world’s
largest importer. Orange juice jumped the most in 14 weeks.
Sugar and coffee gained, while cocoa slid.  China plans to buy cotton to build reserves after prices
stay below a trigger price for five straight days, cncotton.com
said in a statement, citing China’s National Development and
Reform Commission. Last week, futures in New York touched a
three-month low.  “The Chinese stockpile program is an attempt to lock in
large supplies of cotton near the recent low prices,” Michael Smith, the president of T&K Futures & Options Inc. in Port St.
Lucie, Florida, said in an e-mail. “This may also stabilize
prices over the near term.”  Cotton for December delivery gained 0.3 percent to settle
at 83.5 cents a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. Earlier, the price reached 84.33 cents, the highest for a
most-active contract since Aug. 30.  Orange-juice futures for November delivery jumped 3.2
percent to $1.374 a pound, the biggest gain since May 29, on
weather concerns in  Florida , the second-biggest citrus grower.  A tropical depression off the coast of  Africa  has
strengthened into Tropical Storm Humberto, the National
Hurricane Center said. The storm was about 85 miles south-southeast of Fogo, Cape Verde Islands, at 11 a.m. New York time.
The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June through November.  “Humberto is helping push prices higher because it may
turn into a hurricane,” Smith said. “September is the peak
month for hurricane activity, and it is only a matter of time
before a hurricane forms in the Atlantic or Gulf of Mexico.”  Brazil  is the top orange grower.  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery increased 1.3
percent to 17.01 cents a pound on ICE. Earlier, the price
reached 17.04 cents, the highest since Aug. 16.  Arabica-coffee futures for December delivery rose 0.2
percent to $1.1805 a pound. Cocoa futures for December delivery
dropped 0.4 percent to $2,554 a metric ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  