-- Romania’s Ponta Urges Vote to Reject Gold Mine Project
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-09T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/romania-s-ponta-urges-vote-to-reject-gold-mine-project.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta
urged lawmakers to vote quickly on rejecting plans for  Europe ’s
biggest gold mine as a majority of politicians oppose it and
protesters hold nightly demonstrations.  Parliament should “quickly vote” on whether to drop
 Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU) ’s Rosia  Montana  mine project as
opposition appears insurmountable. Crin Antonescu, the head of
the junior ruling coalition National Liberal Party, and
opposition leader Vasile Blaga called for the project to be
killed, while the ruling  Social Democratic Party  is split. A
London-based spokesman for Gabriel Resources declined to
comment.  “There’s no point in wasting time, I want to make sure
that the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies vote on the
rejection and then this project is closed,” Ponta said. “I
don’t want the government to be responsible for contracts
undertaken by previous cabinets.”  More than 8,000 people took to the streets yesterday in
Bucharest for an eighth day to protest against the use of
cyanide in gold mining, according to news website hotnews.ro.
The protests followed the government’s approval last month of a
draft law that would allow development of the mine in the
country that suffered one of the continent’s worst environmental
disasters from a 2000 spill.  The project should be rejected as it lacks public support,
which overrides any technical data stemming from the
development, Antonescu told reporters earlier today. The
statement is a personal opinion and doesn’t reflect the stance
of the  Liberal Party , which has yet to agree on a common view,
he said.  Last month, Gabriel Resources said if parliament adopted
the bill -- which increases the state’s stake in the mine to 25
percent and raises its royalties by half to 6 percent, it would
be able to accelerate its development of Rosia Montana and other
mining projects.  The company expects to get parliamentary approval as soon
as November, Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Henry said on
Sept. 2 in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  