-- Russia Said to Offer $6 Billion of Dollar Bonds With Debut Euro
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-09T16:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/russia-said-to-plan-benchmark-dollar-euro-bond-sales-today.html
Russia  is raising $6 billion of
bonds in dollars and its first notes in euros, seizing on
improved investor sentiment before the Federal Reserve meeting
that may mark the start of a tapering in stimulus measures.  The sale includes $3 billion of 10-year bonds and a seven-year note in euros, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the offerings, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. It canceled a 12-year issue in euros,
the person said.  Emerging-market bonds, which plunged after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the U.S. could start scaling back
measures if the employment outlook signaled “sustainable
improvement,” gained Sept. 6 as data showed America added fewer
jobs than forecast. South Africa will sell $1.5 billion of 12-year bonds, a person with knowledge of the deal said today.  “There’s a window of about a week before the Fed meets and
Congress returns, so the sooner the better,”  Richard Segal , the
head of international credit strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in
London, said in e-mailed comments.  The average yield on emerging-market  government bonds  fell
five basis points to 5.52 percent on Sept. 6, after rising 155
basis points since May 22, according to Bloomberg’s USD Emerging
Market Sovereign Bond Index. Investors pulled $27 billion from
developing-nation bonds from May 1 to Sept. 4, EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows, said
in an e-mail Sept. 6.  Russia’s Rush  The rate on Russia’s $3 billion of notes due April 2042
climbed four basis points to 5.794 percent at 7:05 p.m. in
Moscow, after reaching a high of 5.796 percent on Sept. 5. The
yield was 5.798 percent at last year’s sale.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled to meet on
Sept. 17-18. It will cut Treasury purchases to $35 billion from
$45 billion, while maintaining mortgage-bond buying at $40
billion, according to the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg
survey released on Sept. 6.  “Russia is in a rush, trying to exploit the week before
the FOMC meeting,” Aurelija Augulyte, an  emerging-markets 
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by e-mail.
“Emerging markets have been hit hard since May, but now we see
some signs of panic receding, so it’s a good time for issuers
and Russia is clearly one of the strongest sovereigns in the EM
space.”  Russia sold $7 billion of bonds last year with maturities
from five to 30 years. The government is selling the 30-year and
10-year dollar debt at a yield 220 basis points above U.S.
Treasury rates, and an issue due in January 2019 at a spread of
195 basis points, according to the person. It’s selling seven-year notes in euros at 185 basis points over benchmark mid-swap
rates, the person said.  Best Window  Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Aug. 22 the country
was waiting for the “best window” to sell as much as $7
billion of debt. The offering comes after a smaller-than-expected increase in U.S. nonfarm payrolls last week eased
concern over the potential size of Fed tapering.  “It’s probably a decent time to go ahead” with the sale
after “soft” U.S. jobs data, said John L. Peta, who helps
manage $3 billion of emerging-market debt at  Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd . in London, who is looking at the issues in both
currencies.  South Africa  is offering dollar-denominated bonds at a
spread of 315 basis points to 320 over 10-year  U.S. Treasuries ,
said the person familiar with the offering, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. Kazakhstan is planning
to hold a roadshow for five-year bonds later this month, Kuat
Akizhanov, director of state borrowing department, said in a
phone interview today from the capital, Astana. It’s looking to
raise as much as $1 billion, he said.  Russia appointed Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Barclays
Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, VTB Capital,  Renaissance Capital  and OAO
Gazprombank as managers of the placement in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  