-- HHS Questions Republican Scrutiny of Health Navigators
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-09T17:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/hhs-questions-republican-scrutiny-of-health-navigators.html
The Obama administration is pushing
back against a Republican investigation of the nonprofit groups
enlisted to help people navigate their Affordable Care Act
options, saying the inquiry may impede the law’s implementation.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee
wrote last month to 51 “navigator” groups, demanding documents
and meetings to account for $67 million in federal grants.
Information about the program has already been provided, the
Health and Human Services Department said today in a letter
questioning the motivations behind the probe.  “We are concerned about the timing of your inquiry given
its potential to interfere with the navigators’ ability to carry
out their crucial efforts in assisting Americans who lack health
insurance,” Jim Esquea, the assistant secretary for legislation
at HHS, wrote in the letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  Republicans, none of whom voted for passage of the 2010
law, have fought to derail it. The law is expected to expand
medical coverage to at least half of the estimated 50 million
uninsured Americans. The navigators are considered crucial to
the  Obama administration’s effort  to enroll at least 7 million
of those people in health plans through online marketplaces
scheduled to open Oct. 1.  Agency Response  The navigators were given a Sept. 13 deadline to respond to
the committee’s letters. Esquea’s five-page response answers
questions the Republicans posed to the groups. The
administration also sent copies of the grant applications.  “We trust that our response fully addresses your questions
about the navigator program and the guidelines and controls in
place to monitor the work of the awardees,” Esquea said.  The lawmakers “have had positive and productive
conversations with navigators in response to our request, and
look forward to continuing to do so in the coming days,” Noelle
Clemente, a committee spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Understanding how taxpayer dollars will be used to implement
the health-care law is of the utmost important to our members as
well as the American people.”  Navigator groups are supposed to assist people who don’t
have health insurance sign up for coverage when the new
government-run exchanges open Oct. 1 for health plans that take
effect Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  