-- Sabadell of Spain Boosts Capital Via $1.8 Billion Share Sale
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-10T14:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/sabadell-to-raise-as-much-as-eu1-4-billion-with-share-sale.html
Banco de Sabadell SA , Spain’s
fifth-biggest bank, attracted foreign investors, including
billionaire Colombian businessman Jaime Gilinski, as it sells
1.38 billion euros ($1.83 billion) in stock.  Sabadell raised 650 million euros by issuing 366.3 million
of new shares and selling 30 million treasury shares at 1.64
euros a piece, the Sabadell, Spain-based bank said in filings to
regulators yesterday and today. Sabadell will raise a further
732.7 million euros by offering 666 million new shares to
existing shareholders at 1.10 euros each, a discount of 39
percent from yesterday’s closing price, it said.  Sabadell and other Spanish banks have been hit by mounting
bad loans and weak demand for credit as Spain struggles to
emerge from an economic slump in its sixth year. Sabadell said
it had structured the sale to allow “new shareholders of
significance” to back its future growth and reflect growing
interest from international investors.  The company fell 0.1 percent to 1.80 euros at 4:01 p.m. in
 Madrid  after climbing as much as 4.7 percent earlier. That
valued the bank at 5.33 billion euros. The benchmark Stoxx 600
Banks Index rose 1.9 percent.  “They are receiving outside investment and that could be
construed as a vote of confidence,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an
 analyst  at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London , who rates Sabadell
underperform, said by telephone. Still, the decision to issue
shares “will focus people’s minds on the fact that the capital
position of Spanish banks is far from robust,” he said.  Business Plan  Sabadell has a new business plan for 2014 to 2016 that
commits it to a cost-to-income ratio, a measure of the
efficiency of its operations, of below 40 percent and double
digit return on equity, the bank said in a regulatory filing
yesterday.  The bank also targets a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio,
a key measure of financial strength, of more than 10 percent
under Basel III rules, Sabadell said. After Bank of Spain
guidance to lenders to limit 2013 dividends to 25 percent of
profit, the company said it will aim to pay a cash dividend
equivalent to 50 percent of its profit next year.  Capital Pressure  Sabadell’s decision to raise capital may lead investors to
speculate over whether other banks in Spain need to take similar
steps, said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in
Madrid. The capital increase “shows that banks in Spain
continue to face significant pressure on capital,” he said in
an e-mailed report.  U.S.-based fund Fintech Investment Ltd. and Gilinski
committed to buying 275 million euros each in the bookbuild,
giving both a stake of about 5 percent in the bank, a spokesman
for Sabadell, who asked not to be named in line with company
policy, said in a phone interview today.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is managing the sale as joint bookrunner
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the terms said. Gilinski owns
Colombia’s Banco GNB Sudameris SA, which bought the Latin
American operations of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  last year for about
$400 million.  The new shares, totalling 1 billion, will be listed on Oct.
8. Sabadell had 2.97 billion shares outstanding prior to the
transactions, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  