-- Sands to MGM Scout Casino Sites in Japan as Tokyo Gets Games
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-09-09T06:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/sands-to-mgm-scout-casino-sites-in-japan-as-tokyo-gets-olympics.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  MGM
Resorts International (MGM)  are scouting sites for casinos in  Japan  as
 Tokyo ’s selection to host the 2020 Olympics boosts confidence a
law legalizing gambling resorts in the capital will pass.  The  International Olympic Committee ’s decision fueled
speculation Japan will approve casino gambling since the
development would add hotel capacity and entertainment venues
that could be used during the games. Casinos would also add jobs
and draw about $10 billion in sales to bolster the economy.  Tokyo’s potential as a gambling market is also drawing the
interest of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  The push comes two years after casino
legislation aimed at generating revenue to help rebuild after
the 2011 tsunami faltered.  “We are starting to think through designs and master plans
and partners we think would be most appropriate and really
starting to invest more heavily in this effort,” Steven Tight,
president for international development for Las Vegas-based
Caesars, said in an e-mail. He declined to quantify the
company’s investment or name potential partners.  Among the potential local partners are trading companies
such as  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , Mitsubishi Corp. and Itochu Corp. and
gaming machine makers  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  and  Konami Corp. (9766) 
The trading companies have project-finance experience and real
estate development connections, while the game makers have
helped develop casino projects and technology outside of Japan.  Partner Search  Sega Sammy jumped the most in three months, gaining 7.6
percent to 2,530 yen as of the close in Tokyo trading. Konami
climbed 6.2 percent, more than double the 2.5 percent gain in
the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest casino operator, is
interested in partnering with a local investor to set up a
casino in Japan, Chief Executive Officer Ambrose So said last
week in an interview.  “We can bring technical know-how to a local partner in
Japan,” he said, adding that the company would prefer  Osaka 
over Tokyo as the Japanese capital city is already too crowded
and doesn’t offer much land for large development.  Japanese construction companies and real estate developers
may also benefit from construction of integrated resorts.
Builders in Japan have soared this year, partly on speculation
they would win contracts for the planned 153.8 billion yen in
Olympics-related projects around Tokyo.  Share Gains  Taisei Corp. (1801) , Japan’s most valuable general contractor,
jumped 14 percent today.  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s biggest
property company by market value, and Taisei have doubled in
market value in the past year.  Yomiuri Land Co. (9671) , an operator of
amusement parks and golf courses, has more than tripled in the
same period.  Sega Sammy, the video game and pachinko machine company
that is developing a casino resort near South Korea’s Incheon
airport with Seoul-based Paradise Group, is also a potential
partner. Cash and near cash rose to 176.5 billion yen at the
Tokyo-based company as of March 31, the highest fiscal year-end
figure in at least eight years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Konami, which also produces arcade games and gambling
machines, has also boosted gambling equipment and systems to
about 13 percent of revenue as of the quarter ended in June,
compared with 7 percent in the quarter ended June 2009.  Tokyo Olympics  Japan’s capital beat Madrid and Istanbul to host the Summer
Games, its second following the 1964 Olympics, the IOC said in
Buenos Aires.  Plans to revitalize Tokyo’s infrastructure and ensure
adequate accommodations for visitors add impetus for approving
gambling resorts, which include hotels and entertainment
facilities.  “Victory for Tokyo’s Olympic bid will be beneficial for
legislation to legalize casinos,” said  Jay Defibaugh , an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Tokyo. “We have all the
ingredients to make it happen, so anything that gets the
administration to put a high priority on casinos versus all the
other issues they’re dealing with is good.”  Japan is likely to legalize casinos in October or November,
said Defibaugh and Aaron Fischer, also an analyst at CLSA. The
specific details about sites and operators will probably come
later. That would set the stage for gambling resorts to open by
2019 or 2020, the analysts said in a report earlier this year.  Casino Bill  Takeshi Iwaya, the ruling-party lawmaker who heads a group
set up to promote casino legislation said in June he intends to
submit the bill this autumn.  Preparation for the Games in Tokyo adds to expectations for
casinos that had already been rising after Shinzo Abe, whose
 Liberal Democratic Party  is viewed as favoring legalization,
became prime minister in December.  “What you’ve seen since the Abe administration has come in
is they have put strong leadership on these issues,” George Tanasijevich, chief executive officer of Sands’  Singapore 
operation, said by e-mail last week. “I feel quite optimistic
about it.”  The  Olympic Games  themselves would have an economic impact
of about 2.96 trillion yen and create 150,000 jobs for Japan,
according to an estimate from the Tokyo 2020 bid committee in
June 2012.  Revenue Generation  Casinos would generate about $10 billion a year when a
second large-scale resort in Osaka is included, Defibaugh and
Fischer of CLSA estimate. Adding revenue from smaller gambling
facilities in other cities could push Japan past  Nevada  to
become the world’s largest gambling hub after Macau.  Grant Govertsen, an analyst at Las Vegas-based Union Gaming
Group, also expects casinos to generate about $10 billion a
year, given Japan’s population and wealth.  As the world’s third-largest economy, Japan is Asia’s
biggest untapped casino market, while operators plan gambling
resorts across the region, including in  Manila ,  Sri Lanka  and
 Vietnam .  “Practically overnight it should be the No. 2 gaming
market in the world, second only to Macau,” Govertsen said by
e-mail last week. “We believe it will quickly surpass
Singapore, and surpass Manila quicker still.”  Union Conference  MGM and Sands are among those scheduled to make
presentations at a conference Union Gaming is hosting in Tokyo
Sept. 17-19 in Tokyo, according to the Las Vegas-based casino
consultants’ website. Japanese legislators including Iwaya have
also confirmed attendance, according to the website.  Sands, meanwhile, has begun considering potential locations
for a Japan resort. Possible sites include the Odaiba section of
Tokyo, an island of reclaimed land in Tokyo Bay, between Haneda
airport and the business district surrounding the city’s main
train station.  “There are specific locations we have been focusing on,”
said Tanasijevich, who declined to name the sites.  MGM Resorts International is also preparing to team up with
a consortium of Japan-based companies to prepare for a possible
bid should casinos win legalization, Ed Bowers, the Las Vegas-based company’s senior vice president for hospitality, said in
an e-mail.  “We have been meeting with various potential local
partners,” Bowers said, without identifying any.  Operators with experience in Singapore may have an edge in
winning a Japan project, given the government has indicated it
wants experience with integrated resorts, or IRs, jargon for
facilities that offer more than just gambling tables.  “The two Singapore IR licensees, Las Vegas Sands and
Genting Singapore have probably been a little more vocal about
Japan than their peers,” said Govertsen of Union Gaming. “They
are likely the front-runners for the big licenses. However, all
major international gaming operators are extremely interested in
Japan and already have teams in Japan laying groundwork.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  