-- Santa-to-Scrooge Hockey Takes Economic Reins as Australia Slows
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-09T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/santa-to-scrooge-hockey-takes-economic-reins-as-australia-slows.html
Joe Hockey, who played  Santa Claus 
at a shopping strip in his North Sydney district, is poised to
take on a new role as the incoming government’s Scrooge.  Hockey, 48, will be treasurer after the Liberal-National
coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , won  Australia ’s Sept. 7  election ,
pledging to axe 12,000 public-service jobs en route to a budget
surplus of 1 percent of gross domestic product within a decade.
Hockey last week outlined foreign-aid cuts as part of A$40
billion ($37 billion) in planned savings through 2017.  Known for an affability that saw him share a friendship
with outgoing Labor party Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , Hockey will
be tested to maintain fiscal discipline. With the  jobless rate 
projected to climb to an 11-year high, the man who clashed with
Abbott on a university rugby field will have to restrain
spending even as the world’s 12th-biggest economy slows.  “One of the biggest challenges will be to strengthen the
structure of the budget by reducing spending and raising more
revenue,” said Stephen Koukoulas, a former adviser to ousted
Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and now managing director of
Canberra-based Market Economics Pty. “It’s going to be up to
Hockey to take a hard line on spending with Abbott to prevent
any prime ministerial thought bubbles becoming government
policy.”  In an interview on the campaign trail in Sydney last week,
Hockey signaled lower  government spending  would remove
competition with the private sector for funds.  Savings First  “You can be a more generous Santa if you make it easier
for people to raise money,” Hockey said. “You can only give
away presents if you’ve got something in the bank and we have to
make sure we do that.”  One present the coalition has promised is a A$5.5 billion a
year parental leave program. The incoming administration also 
plans to lower subsidies for carmakers and cancel handouts to 
parents of school children.  Hockey’s family history reflects a snapshot of today’s
multi-cultural Australia: his father was born in Bethlehem with
the name Richard Hokeidonian before immigrating to Sydney, where
he met Hockey’s mother Beverley. They ran a delicatessen in the
beachside district of Bondi before moving over the Sydney
Harbour Bridge to the middle-class suburb of Chatswood, which
Hockey now represents as the member for North Sydney.  The youngest of four children, Hockey was educated at
Catholic schools, where he received a religious faith he retains
to this day.  At the  University of Sydney , Hockey was a “larger than
life” resident at St John’s College and prominent in campus
politics as president of the Students Representative Council,
according to his university friend and current chief executive
of pay television network Foxtel, Richard Freudenstein.  Keg of Beer  “Even at that stage he knew the importance of identifying
your core constituency and getting out the vote, which generally
involved putting on a keg” of beer, Freudenstein said in e-mailed response to questions. “He’s changed a lot since then.
Student politics is pretty undisciplined and he is much more
measured now.”  Before he and his now-leader Abbott learned their present
restraint, they famously clashed on the university rugby field,
with Hockey thumped and given a black eye.  After graduating, Hockey turned to banking and finance law.
He worked for the New South Wales government to assist with the
state’s asset sales program, then contested the federal seat of
 North Sydney  for the Liberal party in the 1996 election that
swept  John Howard  to power and Hockey on to the backbench.  Brendan Nelson, who would go on to lead the coalition in
opposition from 2007 to 2008 and was first elected to parliament
at the same time as Hockey, said the new member for North Sydney
saw the “funny side” when he was mistakenly allocated a broom
cupboard as his office.  Large Backbench  “Howard had a very large backbench and we were both close
to as far to the back of that backbench as you could possibly
get,” Nelson said in an interview. “I said to Joe, if you made
an interjection from where we were sitting it’d have to be
passed on to the center of the chamber.”  In his  maiden speech  in parliament, Hockey described
himself as a believer in modern liberalism, defining his core
views: “firstly, the recognition of the inalienable rights of
the individual; secondly, a belief in parliamentary democracy;
thirdly, a commitment to improve our society through reform;
and, finally, equality of opportunity for all of our citizens.”  Two years later, he was given his first  ministry  in the
portfolio of financial services and regulation. After the 2001
election, he was appointed minister for small business and
tourism. In 2004, Hockey was made minister for human services,
tasked with delivering greater  customer focus  for major welfare
and health services agencies.  Selling Workchoices  In 2007, as the “Workchoices” policy reducing union power
was undermining voter support for the coalition government,
Howard appointed Hockey to sell a watered-down version.  “Howard, with all of his experience, political judgment,
judgment of character and the qualities of those with whom he
worked, chose Joe as the key emissary” of industrial relations
policy, Nelson said. “It showed that John Howard had immense
confidence in him.”  Nelson, who shared a Canberra apartment and then a house
with Hockey when the two entered parliament, said the incoming
treasurer had always shown an interest in economic affairs.  “Whereas I would be wanting to look at a current affairs
story or the history channel, he’d be wanting to look at the
markets and how things are going there,” Nelson said.  National Profile  Hockey’s national profile was boosted as he sparred with
Rudd on the national breakfast television program “Sunrise”
from 2002 to 2007. In opposition, Hockey held a raft of shadow
ministry positions before snaring what he calls his ultimate
portfolio ambition in February 2009 -- treasury spokesman.  That didn’t stop him from reaching for a higher role.
Hockey ran as a candidate for the Liberal Party leadership in
December 2009. Abbott was elected.  In the shadow treasurer role, Hockey had to endure taunts
from his counterpart  Wayne Swan  in parliament, who badged him
“Sloppy Joe.” His reputation took a knock after a  gap  was
found in cost estimates of the coalition’s 2010 election plans.
Since then, Hockey led attacks on Swan’s failure to return the
budget to surplus last fiscal year, as had been promised.  “Hockey has managed to establish a very high public
profile and a reputation as being competent and affable,” said
Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst and lecturer in politics at
 Melbourne ’s  Monash University . “He seems to have shaken off the
‘Sloppy Joe’ label that Labor was so keen to give him.”  Budget Blowout  The Treasury last month forecast deeper budget deficits in
the next three years and cut its growth estimate for 2013-14 to
2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen in May. Unemployment will
rise to an 11-year high of 6.25 percent by mid-2014, it said.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record-low 2.5 percent in a bid to revive
employment-intensive industries including construction as a
mining investment boom wanes. Australia’s dollar traded at about
92 U.S. cents in Sydney yesterday, compared with an average of
about 76 cents since it was floated in December 1983.  While Hockey has said he has no plans for an immediate
austerity drive, he has outlined a small-government ethos.  “The Age of Entitlement should never have been allowed to
become a fiscal nightmare,” he said in an April 2012  speech  to
the Institute of Economic Affairs in  London . “But now that it
has, governments around the world must rein in their excesses
and learn to live within their means. All of our futures depend
on it.”  Kilimanjaro Climb  Late last year, Hockey underwent stomach reduction surgery
to lose weight as he prepared for the challenges of the election
campaign and government. His friends say the operation reflects
his determination to perform at his maximum potential.  Hockey’s drive to improve his fitness was demonstrated in
an August 2009 charity climb of  Mount Kilimanjaro .  “It was a line in the sand for him to get fitter, and he
did,” said Paul Francis, who manages tennis centers on Sydney’s
North Shore and runs the Humpty Dumpty Foundation, which raises
money to buy children’s medical equipment. Hockey’s walk to
 Africa ’s highest peak demonstrates his resolve, while the role
as Santa reflects his accessibility, Francis said.  “Hundreds of people turn up at the local shops and I’d say
99 percent of them didn’t realize it was  Joe Hockey ” Francis
said. “There’s going to be pain to get Australia back on track
again and I think Joe will make those tough decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  