-- Scandinavian Banks, G-20 Meeting, Everbright: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/scandinavian-banks-g-20-meeting-everbright-compliance.html
Scandinavia’s  biggest banks  have
failed to curb funding risks linked to financial innovation and
will probably only avoid downgrades if national regulators force
through stricter measures, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Steps taken to date by lenders including  Denmark ’s  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit A/S, as well as  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  in Sweden, aren’t enough, said Per Tornqvist, a
Stockholm-based analyst at S&P. As competitive pressure “forces
banks to maintain short-term funding,” regulators need to step
in and help banks extend their funding maturities, he said.  AAA-rated Scandinavia’s biggest banks are more vulnerable
to funding shocks than their peers in the U.S., France and
Italy, according to a July analysis by S&P, which measured
liquidity risks five years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. paralyzed the global financial system. The rating
company criticized Nordic lenders’ practice of using funds as
short as one year to finance loans as long as 30 years, as well
as a reliance on short-term offshore borrowing.  Swedish banks are more dependent on market funding than
banks in most other countries, according to the Financial
Supervisory Authority in  Stockholm .  In Denmark, home to the world’s largest mortgage bond
market per capita, banks refinance as much as $228 billion
annually, spread over quarterly auctions. About 50 percent of
Danish borrowers refinance their mortgages annually, according
to the FSA in Copenhagen.  Efforts to sidestep funding mismatches by inventing new
securities will do little to persuade S&P the lenders are really
addressing liquidity risks, Tornqvist said.  Banks are responding to the latest regulator demands that
they protect themselves against funding misalignments by
inventing new securities.  For more, click here.  Special Section: G-20 Meeting  Merkel Says G-20 Agrees on Regulation Plan for Shadow Banks  Group of 20 summit leaders in St. Petersburg Sept. 6 agreed
on a road map for regulating shadow banks throughout the G-20,
German chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters after the
meeting.  Leaders from outside Europe “recognize that the euro areas
crisis isn’t over yet but that confidence is returning, and when
structural reforms continue and if we keep to our commitments
and show we’re reliable -- that then we can overcome this crisis
step by step,” Merkel said.  Merkel also said the G-20 leaders agreed to extend a
commitment to refrain from new protectionist measures for
another two years.  Carney Calls for Bank Risk-Model Clampdown to Repair Trust  Regulators must restrict lenders’ ability to escape tougher
capital rules by changing how they measure risk, Financial
Stability Board Chairman  Mark Carney  said, as he urged nations
to finish an overhaul of bank rules.  “The risk models that banks use to calculate their capital
needs show worryingly large differences,” Carney, governor of
the  Bank of England , said in a letter Sept. 5 to leaders from
the Group of 20 nations meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia.
“This must be addressed for depositors, investors, clients and
authorities to have full confidence in the strength of bank
balance sheets and their resilience during a downturn.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , an
international regulators group, said in July that some lenders
were backing investments with as much as 20 percent more capital
than other banks. European banks generally apply lower risk
weights to their holdings of bank-issued debt than lenders based
elsewhere, the Basel group said.  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum  capital requirements , measured as a
percentage of their assets.  G-20 Members to Start Automatic Tax-Data Exchanges by End-2015  The Group of 20 “fully endorsed” a proposal by the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development for
automatic bilateral and multilateral exchanges of tax
information.  The OECD and the G-20 will prepare the standard for the
exchanges by February and plan to complete the technical details
by mid-2014, according to a statement published after the  St.
Petersburg  summit.  G-20 leaders also endorsed an action plan from OECD on
avoiding tax-base erosion and profit shifting, according to  the
statement. The plan for exchanging tax information was backed by
G-20 leaders in July.  Compliance Policy  Bank Rossii Plans to Post Foreign OFZ Holder Data on Site  Information on the structure of government debt holders
will be published monthly, Interfax reported, citing Sergei
Moiseev, deputy director of financial stability at Bank Rossii.  Data is to be made public with a 1 1/2-month time lag,
according to the St. Petersburg-based central bank.  The central bank may start publication as early as this
month. It is considering publication of a list of holders of
shares, as well as corporate and municipal bonds, in the future.  Bank Rossii said in a July report that non-resident
holdings of OFZs, a Russian abbreviation of Federal Loan
Obligations, is approaching 30 percent of the emerging-market
average.  Compliance Action  Everbright Removed From Shanghai Corporate Governance Index  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  was removed from the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange ’s corporate governance index because it no longer
meets the gauge’s criteria after being punished by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission over erroneous trades,
according to a statement posted to the exchange.  The company, China’s seventh-largest brokerage by market
value, posted an unconsolidated net loss of 523 million  yuan 
($85 million) last month after $3.8 billion in erroneous trading
orders that roiled China’s equity market and drew a record
regulatory penalty.  Everbright incurred the unconsolidated loss, which doesn’t
include contributions from subsidiaries, after disposing of
assets following the Aug. 16 error, the company said in a
 statement  to the Shanghai exchange Sept. 5. The figure is based
on preliminary data and hasn’t been audited, the company said.  State-controlled Everbright has been ordered by the CSRC to
pay a record 523 million yuan for  insider trading  in the
aftermath of the errors. The regulator, which is cracking down
on misconduct, barred the company from most proprietary trading
and banned four of its executives from the market for life.  Everbright sold exchange-traded funds and index futures on
Aug. 16 before telling the market it had made the erroneous buy
orders, the CSRC said Aug. 30. Investors in Guangzhou and
Shanghai are suing for damages, claiming they suffered losses.  H.K. Regulators Extend OTC Derivatives Rules Transition Period  Firms will have six months to comply with new over-the-counter derivatives regulations from the implementation date,
the  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  and the  Securities and Futures
Commission  said in a joint statement Sept. 6.  Public consultation on the detailed requirements of the new
regime is expected in the fourth quarter, according to the
statement.  Courts  Deutsche Bahn Loses EU Court Bid to Quash Antitrust Raids  Deutsche Bahn  AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, lost its
bid to overturn separate European Union decisions ordering
antitrust raids at the company’s offices.  The EU General Court in Luxembourg decided Sept. 6 that
regulators didn’t break EU rules with a series of inspections
that Deutsche Bahn said started out as a “fishing expedition”
seeking evidence of competition-law violations.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust watchdog, in
2011 raided Deutsche Bahn’s offices to check allegations that DB
Energie was unfairly favoring the group’s rail-freight arm.
During that first raid, the commission gathered evidence which
led it to order a second and a third raid over the use of
infrastructure by the companies in the Deutsche Bahn group.  Deutsche Bahn will study the ruling and decide about an
appeal to the EU Court of Justice, the Berlin-based company said
by e-mail.  According to the Sept. 6 ruling, the commission was
entitled to use information gleaned in the first raid to justify
subsequent inspections on the company focusing on different
issues.  The cases are: T-289/11, T-290/11, T-521/11, Deutsche Bahn
and others v. Commission.  Second Martoma Tipper Identified as SAC Insider Trial Nears  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Mathew Martoma, who
faces trial in November on insider trading charges tied to
illicit tips on an Alzheimer’s drug, got some of his information
from New Jersey physician Joel Ross, two people familiar with
the matter said.  Ross, a geriatrician and clinical associate professor of
medicine at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, is the unidentified
physician in a revised indictment filed against Martoma Aug. 22,
said the people, who requested anonymity because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly. Referred to as Doctor-2, Ross
provided confidential information to Martoma about a drug trial
in July 2008, the U.S. said. He hasn’t been charged.  Martoma, 39, pleaded not guilty to charges of two counts of
 securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy. His trial is
scheduled to begin Nov. 4 in Manhattan federal court.  Ross didn’t respond to a call seeking comment on the
allegations.  Richard Strassberg , Martoma’s lawyer, didn’t
respond to a voice-mail message left at his office seeking
comment. Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for the  office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Ross’s identity was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  