-- Serbia and Kosovo Settle Some Differences Ahead of Vote, EU Says
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-09-09T12:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/serbia-and-kosovo-settle-some-differences-ahead-of-vote-eu-says.html
Serbia  and its former province
 Kosovo  settled differences over telecommunications and energy
supply in the tense areas of Serb-populated northern Kosovo,
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said.  The former foes also made some progress on Kosovo elections
in which Serbs living there, most of whom don’t regard Kosovo as
a country, are expected to take part, Ashton said today in
Brussels after meeting with Serb Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and
his Kosovar counterpart Hashim Thaci. Their cooperation is vital
for Serbia to be able to start entry talks with the bloc.  “It’s really important to see people come for these
elections and cast their vote,” Ashton said in a statement
posted on the European Council’s  website .  Serbia agreed in April to improve relations with Kosovo and
encourage Serbs living there to take part in elections and
institutions. The agreement was reached under EU pressure
against Serbia’s refusal to accept Kosovo’s 2008 secession.
Dacic said in Brussels that Serbs voting and running in the Nov.
3 ballot would be able to use Serbian-issued documents, state
newswire  Tanjug  reported today. He also said he saw EU accession
talks beginning as early as December.  The telecommunications agreement means calls between Serbia
and northern Kosovo won’t be billed as international calls,
Dacic said, according to Tanjug. Telecom operators with Serbia-issued licenses may also remain in northern Kosovo at least
until 2015 when the former province may call a tender for
operators, state-run broadcaster RTS cited him as saying.  As Europe’s youngest nation, Kosovo is seeking its own
country code from the  International Telecommunications Union .
Serbia has blocked this as an existing member of the Geneva-based organization. A solution may be found in “a few years,”
Dacic said, according to  RTS .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  