-- Shell Sells Forties Crude at Lower Price; Glencore Offers Urals
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-09-09T16:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/shell-sells-forties-crude-at-lower-price-glencore-offers-urals.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  sold  North Sea 
Brent crude at a lower price than a previous bid. Glencore
Xstrata Plc failed to sell Russian Urals blend in the
Mediterranean even after lowering its offer.  Libyan crude production has been restored at all fields
that were shut by protesters, Sliman Qajam, member of the
parliament’s energy committee, said today from Tripoli.  North Sea  Shell sold Forties cargo F0910 for Sept. 19 to Sept. 21 to
 Eni SpA (ENI)  at 30 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, according to
a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window. The grade was bid at a premium of 74 cents for
Sept. 21 to Sept. 23 in the previous session.  BP Plc (BP/)  withdrew its earlier bid for Forties for loading on
Sept. 22 to Sept. 25 at a premium of 69 cents a barrel to Dated
Brent, the survey showed.  Brent for October settlement traded at $114.67 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $116.45 from the previous session. The November
contract was at $113.32, a discount of $1.35 to October.  The Tambar and Oselvar fields in the North Sea restarted
after repairs to Ula platform were completed, according to BP,
the operator.  “Tambar and Oselvar came back in production during last
Saturday and Sunday,” Jan Erik Geirmo, a company spokesman
based in Stavanger,  Norway , said in an e-mail. “We hope to have
Blane on stream during today.”  Operations at three fields halted Aug. 7 after the
breakdown of a gas turbine at the Ula platform, which handles
crude from Tambar, Oselvar and Blane. Crude output from those
fields feeds into the Ekofisk stream.  The share of Buzzard crude in the Forties system fell to 49
percent in the week to Sept. 8, down 6 percentage points from a
week earlier, according to BP. That’s the lowest since July 28.  Urals/Mediterranean  Glencore failed to sell 140,000 metric tons of Urals for
Sept. 19 to Sept. 23 loading at 70 cents a barrel less than
Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the survey
showed. That’s 30 cents less than its offer on Sept. 6.  OAO Lukoil didn’t manage to buy 80,000 tons of Urals at
parity to Dated Brent, according to the survey.  In northwest Europe, Eni was unable to buy 100,000 tons of
Urals for Sept. 21 to Sept. 25 at a discount of 90 cents a
barrel less than Dated Brent, the survey showed. The grade was
last sold in the region at a discount of $1 a barrel on Sept. 4.  All export terminals in  Libya  will be open by middle of
next week, Qajam said. “We have reached a final solution with
the protesters.”  West Africa  Eight out of nine Nigerian Qua Iboe crude cargoes for
October loading have been sold, and the status of the remaining
shipment is unknown, said two traders who participate in the
market, asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential. Four lots will be shipped to  India .  Cargoes of Qua Iboe were sold recently at a premium of more
than $4 a barrel to Dated Brent, compared with premiums of $3 to
$3.20 for September-loading consignments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  