-- Singapore Developer Sued by Homeowners in Wealthy Enclave
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-09-09T09:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/singapore-developer-sued-by-homeowners-in-wealthy-enclave.html
Owners occupying almost half the
units at a luxury apartment building on  Singapore ’s resort
island of Sentosa sued the developer over alleged defects.  Ho Bee Investment Ltd. (HOBEE)  failed to fix termite-infested pool
decking and flooded staircases in the common areas at the 249-unit The Coast at Sentosa Cove, 108 of the owners claimed in a
lawsuit filed on their behalf by the property managers in the
Singapore High Court. The owners also sued three contractors.  “Complaints from residents to developers happen all the
time but it’s not that common for it to go to court,” said
Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte,
who has a “buy” rating on Ho Bee. “It will slightly tarnish
their image, but you have to see their track record for their
other projects too.”  Ho Bee was the first condominium developer in Singapore’s
Sentosa Cove, an estate carved out by the government as the only
place foreigners are allowed to buy houses. The area is located
on the eastern part of Sentosa, a resort island that’s home to
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ’s casino and Universal Studios theme park.  Ho Bee denied the allegations in Aug. 27 court filings,
blaming the defects on the management corporation’s negligence.
Responsibility for maintenance of the complex, completed in
April 2009, was handed to the management committee in December
2010, the developer said.  Reviewing Lawsuit  “We are defending ourselves,” Ho Bee’s executive director
Desmond Woon said today in a phone interview. “Not all the
claims are reasonable, we will look into it and respond
accordingly.”  Edwin Lee, a lawyer representing the homeowners, declined
to comment.  Ho Bee’s shares erased earlier gains of as much as 1
percent to closed unchanged at S$2.07 at the Singapore close.  A company linked to  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, bought two
apartments on the island for S$57.2 million ($44.9 million), The
Business Times reported in July, while a bungalow on the island
sold for a record price per square foot in October.  The Coast “will provide an  unparalleled setting  for your
abode,” Ho Bee said on its website, showcasing waterfront
apartments with views of the  South China Sea . A 3,100-square-foot apartment at the Coast was sold for S$4.5 million in July,
while a 2,024-square-foot home fetched S$3.6 million in April,
the only two transactions this year based on records from the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority .  The Coast is among five developments Ho Bee has completed
on Sentosa Cove, according to its website. It’s selling homes of
two projects and has another in the pipeline for future sales,
it said.  The case is The Management Corporation Strata Title Plan
No. 3493 v Ho Bee Cove Pte, S688/2013. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  