-- Snowden Files Show U.S. Spied on Petrobras, Globo TV Reports
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-09-09T21:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/snowden-documents-show-u-s-spied-on-petrobras-globo-tv-reports.html
The U.S. government spied on
Brazil’s state-controlled  oil company , Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Globo TV  reported  yesterday, citing classified documents
obtained by former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.  The television network’s “Fantastico” news magazine,
which reported a week ago that the U.S. National Security Agency
intercepted phone calls and e-mails of Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , aired slides last night from an NSA presentation from
2012 that explained the agency’s capability to penetrate private
networks of companies such as Petrobras, as the oil company is
known, and Google Inc. In a written statement, Rousseff said
Petrobras is no threat to any country.  “As such, if the allegations broadcast by the press are
confirmed, it would be evident that the motive for attempted
violation and spying are not security or fighting terrorism, but
economic and strategic interests,” Rousseff said. “The
Brazilian government is working to obtain clarifications from
the U.S. about all violations.”  The spying allegations have cast doubt on whether a
scheduled state visit by Rousseff will take place as scheduled
in October. Rousseff told reporters at the Group of 20 summit in
Russia last week that her visit to the U.S. next month is still
pending as U.S. President  Barack Obama  works to ensure that
spying allegations won’t harm the countries’ mutual interests.
Brazilian officials have denounced the case as a violation of
their nation’s sovereignty.  France, Banks  One slide in the presentation listed “economic” as an
intention for spying, as well as diplomatic and political
reasons. None of the documents revealed the motivation for the
alleged spying on Petrobras, according to Globo.  The NSA was able to spy on French diplomats by tapping into
an internal network at the European country’s Foreign Ministry.
The presentation also showed the NSA was capable of breaching
communications between international banks using their SWIFT
network.  The NSA allegedly shared its spying capabilities and
information with peer agencies in the U.K.,  Canada ,  Australia ,
and  New Zealand , according to Globo.  U.S. journalist Glenn Greenwald collaborated with Globo
News to produce the story. Greenwald first presented accusations
that the NSA intercepted phone calls and e-mails from Rousseff
on Globo television Sept. 1. He has said the information
revealed this month was part of the first batch of documents he
received from Snowden when they met in  Hong Kong .  ‘Intelligence Capabilities’  The U.S. does gather intelligence on “economic and
financial matters,” said Director of National Intelligence
James R. Clapper in a statement issued in  Washington  yesterday.
“What we do not do, as we have said many times, is use our
foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of
foreign companies on behalf of -- or give intelligence we
collect to -- U.S. companies to enhance their international
competitiveness or increase their bottom line,” Clapper said in
the statement.  Petrobras said in a statement that it has highly-qualified
systems to protect its internal computer network, and all
communication between the network and the external world is
monitored. While internal information is encrypted, attacks on
Petrobras will require the company to make further investments
in technology and data protection, the statement said.  Rousseff earlier said U.S. National Security Adviser  Susan Rice  plans to contact her Sept. 11. Brazil intends to raise the
issue of Internet governance at the  United Nations  and other
international organizations, Rousseff added.  Petrobras is seeking to develop  oil fields  in the so-called
pre-salt region in deep waters off the coast of Brazil that hold
the world’s biggest petroleum discoveries this century.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  