-- Sony Sets February Japan PS4 Debut to Focus on U.S. First
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-09-10T08:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/sony-delays-ps4-release-in-japan-to-focus-on-u-s-holiday-sales.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will release the
PlayStation 4 console in  Japan  three months after it reaches
shelves in  North America , as the company seeks to avoid
shortages that hurt sales of its predecessor.  The timing will allow Sony to focus on meeting demand in
its biggest sales markets for the peak holiday shopping season,
Andrew House, chief executive for the company’s game business,
said in  Tokyo . The machine will be released on Feb. 22 in Japan,
compared with Nov. 15 in North America and Nov. 29 in  Europe .
Sony’s machine will reach 32 markets this year.  The PS4, which has a U.S. retail price of $399, is a
central element of Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s plan to
revive Sony, which is competing against new machines from
 Nintendo Co. (7974)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The PS3 sold less than half its
early estimates as parts shortages slowed production after the
November 2006 release.  “We had a tough experience of supply not meeting demand at
an early stage of introduction for PS2 and PS3,” House said.
“This time, we want to avoid that happening again. We want to
launch it when we can meet the volume.”  Sony  rose  2.1 percent to 2,135 yen at the close of trade in
Tokyo. The stock has more than doubled this year compared with a
38 percent gain in the Topix index.  Global Battle  The new consoles will be offered in Sony’s home market for
39,980 yen ($402), the company said yesterday. Orders have
already topped 1 million, House said on Aug. 21. The console
will sell in Europe for 399 euros ($526).  The PS4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One are each projected to sell
3 million units worldwide this year, the estimate of  Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper Jaffray in  Minneapolis .  While the competition between the PS4, Microsoft’s new Xbox
One and Nintendo’s year-old Wii U will play out globally, Hirai
has set a goal to be No. 1 in game consoles in the U.S., the
biggest chunk of the $67 billion video-game market.  In the last round of consoles, Sony placed third in the
U.S., according to NPD Group data through 2010. Microsoft
overtook the Wii 2½ years ago and has led since.  “The U.S. is a huge market that Sony does not want to
miss,” said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities
based in Tokyo. “The PS4 is for core gamers and lots of core
gamers are from the U.S.”  Vita TV  Sony also said yesterday it will introduce a thinner,
lighter PS Vita handheld player equipped with Wi-Fi, and a PS
Vita TV device targeting families that will offer content from
streaming services including Hulu LLC and Japan’s Tsutaya.  The PS Vita TV will go on sale starting in November for
9,480 yen, House said.  The unveiling of the PS4 in June impressed game enthusiasts
and industry analysts with its $399 price, compared with $499
for the Xbox One, and policies that included unrestricted
swapping and trade-ins of used games.  The new PlayStation, with a combined processor and memory
architecture from Sunnyvale, California-based  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) , features a PC-like design that Sony executives say
will make developing games easier.  The game unit  posted  an operating loss of 14.8 billion yen
in the quarter ended June 30, Sony said last month. Revenue,
including inter-segment revenue, was little changed at 117.9
billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  