-- South Africa Sells $2 Billion of Bonds After Boosting Offering
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-09-09T23:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/south-africa-sells-2-billion-of-bonds-after-boosting-offering.html
South Africa  sold $2 billion of 12-year bonds in overseas debt markets after boosting the size of
the offering.  The country issued the bonds due in 2025 to yield 6
percent, or 3.15 percentage points above U.S. Treasuries,
yesterday. It had originally planned to sell $1.5 billion of the
debt to yield as much as 3.3 percentage points above Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because he’s not allowed to speak publicly.  South Africa tapped the market after investors pulled $22.1
billion from emerging-market bond funds since the end of April
amid speculation the U.S. will curb stimulus. The withdrawals
are almost five times the amount taken out of U.S. corporate
debt, according to EPFR Global.  “Despite the headline risk, there’s money to put to work
in  emerging markets ,” said Luz Padilla, manager of the $664
million DoubleLine Emerging Markets Fixed Income Fund.  Russia, which shares South Africa’s BBB rating from
 Standard & Poor’s , sold $6.96 billion of euro and dollar bonds
due in five, seven, 10 and 30 years yesterday. It issued 10-year
securities to yield 220 basis points over Treasuries.  The 6 percent that South Africa agreed to pay yesterday is
up from 4.665 percent, or 270 basis points above U.S.
Treasuries, when it sold notes due in 2024 in January 2012.  Fed Tapering  South Africa’s central bank forecasts the nation’s economy
will grow 2 percent this year after expanding 2.58 percent in
2012 as labor unrest in mines shaves 0.3 percentage point off
growth, President  Jacob Zuma  said in June. The country, which
has the world’s largest-known reserves of platinum and chrome
and is the sixth-largest producer of gold, relies on minerals
for more than 50 percent of its exports.  Wall Street’s biggest firms are predicting intensifying
bond losses in emerging markets, where borrowing costs have
already soared to the highest in more than four years versus
U.S. corporate debt, as the  Federal Reserve  considers curtailing
record stimulus.  Borrowing costs are soaring from record lows reached in
January as speculation deepens that the Fed will curtail its so-called quantitative easing as soon as this month, signaling an
end to the flood of cheap money that’s propped up asset prices
from India to China and  Indonesia . The exodus from developing
nations began after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
on May 22 that the central bank could scale back the pace of its
$85 billion of purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries if the
 U.S. economy  showed sustained improvement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  