-- Sri Lanka Sees Stable Rupee in Contrast to India Volatility
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-09-09T07:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/sri-lanka-sees-stable-rupee-in-contrast-to-india-volatility-1-.html
Sri Lanka ’s central bank governor
hailed the island nation’s ability to contain inflation and keep
the currency stable as he sought to convince investors its
economy is avoiding the pitfalls affecting neighboring  India .  Stable interest rates and prices would help Sri Lanka’s
rupee trade with less volatility than many other countries in
 Asia , Central Bank of Sri Lanka Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal
said today in an interview with  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg
Television. Sri Lanka, an island off India’s southeast coast,
has an economy one-thirtieth the size of its neighbor.  “Lots of people look at Sri Lanka and India together, and
as a result what happens there is of consequence to us as
well,” Cabraal said. “But we have been able to distinguish Sri
Lanka’s economy from India, and as a result of that many
investors now see us separately.”  Cabraal is part of a delegation visiting  Hong Kong  to
convince foreign investors to buy Sri Lankan stocks, which are
among the cheapest in Asia at 11.5  times  reported profit. He
said the economy was on track to grow 7.5 percent this year and
may expand 8 percent in 2014 to outpace India, which posted its
slowest growth in a decade during the last fiscal year.  “Sri Lanka is definitely in a better position than
India,” said Bimanee Meepagala, a Colombo-based analyst at the
country’s largest private fund NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd.
“While their economy is slowing, Sri Lanka’s growth is still on
a positive trajectory.”  Less Volatility  The Sri Lankan rupee, which has declined about 4 percent
against the dollar this year, fell 0.1 percent to 133.00 per
dollar as of 12:15 p.m. local time. The Indian currency, which
touched an all-time low of 68.8450 on Aug. 28, has plunged
almost 16 percent this year on concern over India’s widening
current-account deficit and slowing growth.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5 percent in the fiscal
year ending March 31, the smallest gain since 2003. Asia’s
third-largest economy is expected to grow 5.5 percent in the
current fiscal year, according to  central bank  estimates.  Sri Lanka is “conscious” of the need to keep next year’s
inflation rate at between 4 percent and 6 percent, Cabraal said
at the investor forum in Hong Kong. Last month the central bank
kept its policy interest rates unchanged and said inflation is
expected to remain in single digits for the rest of 2013.  ‘Take Off’  Sri Lanka’s growth slumped to 6.4 percent in 2012 on
falling demand for the island’s exports, which range from tea to
textiles. The economy expanded more than 8 percent in each of
the two years following the end of a three-decade civil war in
2009.  Cabraal said Aug. 28 that the central bank intervened in
the  currency market  as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to
withdraw stimulus prompted investors to take out funds from
 emerging markets .  Sri Lanka’s $59 billion economy is “about to take off”
and amendments to legislation may help encourage foreign flows,
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Nalaka Godahewa told
Bloomberg Television today.  Foreigners have bought a net $129 million of Sri Lankan
shares as of Sept. 5, after net purchases of about $300 million
in 2012, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors so far this year have accounted for about
38 percent of market turnover in Sri Lanka, triple the amount
from 2011, stock exchange data show. Even so, daily average
turnover amounted to about 896 million rupees ($6.7 million)
through Sept. 4, down from 2.3 billion rupees in 2011, the data
show.  New Listings  The benchmark  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  has dropped 35
percent from a 2011 high after quadrupling in the aftermath of
the civil war. The index fell 0.1 percent today.  Only one company has sold shares in an initial public
offering this year, raising less than 1 billion rupees. Tax
exemptions on interest earned from listed corporate bonds helped
prompt 10 companies to raise 24 billion rupees in debt IPOs in
the period.  Five more debenture IPOs are in the pipeline for the rest
of this year, and one more initial equity share sale is expected
in the next two months, said Krishan Balendra, chairman of the
 Colombo Stock Exchange .  “The  U.S. economy  is now starting to gain some traction,
so tapering the QE would probably be a good move,” he told
Bloomberg Television, referring to the  Federal Reserve ’s
quantitative easing program.  John Keells Holdings Plc and Commercial Bank of Ceylon Plc,
two of the bourse’s five biggest stocks by market value, are
among 11 companies that sent representatives to the investment
forum in Hong Kong. Similar events were held earlier this year
in Mumbai and Dubai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  