-- Store-Bought Baby Food Offers Little Benefit to Milk Diet
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-09-10T08:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/store-bought-baby-food-offers-little-benefit-to-milk-diet.html
Commercial baby foods offer little
nutritional benefit over breast milk and infants would get more
from homemade purees than from a jar when transitioning to a
solid food diet, a  study  found.  Researchers looked at more than 450 products for infants
being weaned off breast milk made by  Danone SA’s (BN)  Cow & Gate,
H.J. Heinz Co., Boots, Hipp Organic, Ella’s Kitchen and Organix
Brands Ltd. Fifty grams of homemade  baby food  would probably
have the same energy and protein as 100 grams of the commercial
food, they wrote in the Archives of Disease in Childhood, which
is published by the British Medical Association.  The main purpose of weaning food is to increase the energy
children consume and provide richer sources of nutrients such as
iron, the researchers said. Commercial foods with meat had the
highest iron content though no higher than formula milk and not
much higher than vegetarian-based commercial food, they said.
Commercial rusks and biscuits had more energy and higher amounts
of calcium and iron than homemade foods as well as more sugar,
the study found.  “People buy processed food because of convenience, but
people should understand what’s in it,”  Charlotte Wright,  a
pediatrician who worked on the study, said in an interview.  Two-thirds of the commercial foods studied were classified
as sweet and 44 percent were advertised for infants 4 months and
older even though the recommendation from the  World Health
Organization , the U.K.’s  National Health Service  and the
 American Academy of Pediatrics  is 6 months.  First Year  Health professionals should advise families to progress to
homemade weaning foods prepared without salt and sugar,
particularly later in the first year of life, the researchers
said.  “Just as you wouldn’t live on McDonald’s every day, that’s
how baby jars should be viewed,” said Wright, who is also a
professor of community child health at the University of Glasgow
in  Scotland .  Some parents want to wean their infants before six months
and Organix makes clear which foods are suitable for that age,
Anna Rosier, managing director at the Bournemouth, England-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “All of our foods are complementary to breastfeeding, and
we adhere to the regulations for complementary foods for
babies,” she said. “We do not make foods with the purpose to
replace breast milk as the primary source of nutrition before 6
months.”  Nutritional Needs  Organix products aren’t fortified with vitamins or minerals
because it isn’t permitted with organic food, she said.  The European Union and the  American Academy  of Pediatrics
say complementary food can be added to a milk diet as early as 
four months if the child is developmentally ready, Meike Schmidt,
a spokeswoman with Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s 
biggest food company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “ Nestle products  for infants and young children are
carefully prepared to ensure they provide the right balance of
nutrients in appropriate amounts for infants and young children,
they are safe and meet all regulatory requirements where they
are sold, including labeling,” Schmidt said. “Levels of
protein, carbohydrate including sugars, fat, vitamins and
minerals in baby foods are strictly regulated by legislation
which is based on advice from scientific experts.”  Danone doesn’t market complementary food for infants
younger than six months in most countries where it operates,
 Charlotte  Pasternak, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an
e-mailed statement. The exception is  Europe , where the  European
Food Safety Authority  opinion says introducing complimentary
food between four and six months is safe, she said.  Ella’s Kitchen supports breastfeeding for six months,
“however, it may not always be possible or appropriate,” Emma
Sykes, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As the study acknowledges, commercial weaning food
is created to complement the nutrition gained from baby’s
milk.”  Heinz products are prepared to meet babies’ nutritional
needs with recipes that provide the right tastes and textures,
the Pittsburgh-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  “Generations of parents have trusted Heinz baby foods as
safe and nourishing,” Heinz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  