-- Storm Humberto May Become Atlantic’s First Hurricane
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-09T17:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/storm-humberto-may-become-atlantic-s-first-hurricane.html
Tropical Storm Humberto may grow
into the Atlantic’s first hurricane far to the east of North
America, and forecasters don’t see any other immediate threats.  Humberto is expected to reach hurricane level, with winds
of at least 74 miles per hour, as early as tomorrow, according
to the  National Hurricane Center . If it does, it would miss
setting a record for the latest such a storm has formed since
satellites have been able to watch the entire Atlantic basin,
said  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the center in Miami. The
record is now 8 a.m. New York time on Sept. 11.  “With records going back to 1851, there are 12 years when
the first hurricane materialized on or after today,” Feltgen
said in an e-mail interview. “The all-time record latest is
October 8, 1905.”  Eight tropical storms have formed in the Atlantic so far
this season, which began June 1 and runs through Nov. 30. The
systems are followed closely by energy and commodity markets
because they can disrupt supply and demand of petroleum
products, natural gas and crops.  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Florida , which is struck more often than any U.S. state, is
the second-largest producer of oranges behind  Brazil .  Humberto Threat  Humberto was 85 miles south-southeast of Fogo, Cape Verde
Islands, at 11 a.m. New York time, the hurricane center said.
It’s expected to take a turn to the north.  There is a chance that the storm may hold itself together
and take a more westerly path at some point in the next 10 days,
so Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York,
said he can’t write it off completely.  “It could easily bend back and start a whole new chapter
in the eastern Atlantic a week from now,” Schlacter said by
telephone.  Aside from Humberto, the hurricane center is tracking the
remnants of the short-lived Tropical Storm Gabrielle, now about
500 miles south-southwest of  Bermuda . It has a 20 percent chance
of reorganizing into a system in the next five days.  In addition, a  low pressure area  may form over the Bay of
Campeche in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico that could become a
tropical system in the next five days, according to the
hurricane center.  Keeping Watch  Schlacter said it’s worth “keeping an eye” on both.  “Right now we’re fine, but we still have six more weeks
where these storms can have an impact,” Schlacter said. “We’re
just one week into the most active month of the season.”  The statistical peak is Sept. 10, according to the
hurricane center. The most active part of the season is from the
middle of August to the beginning of October.  Conditions are ripe for development and there is no telling
when the right collection of thunderstorms will spark some
activity, Schlacter said.  “There aren’t a lot of hindering forces in the Atlantic
right now,” Schlacter said. “The Atlantic is almost like a
boiling pot of water and where those heat bubbles are going to
come up, no one can say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  