-- Swiss Stocks Decline After Three-Day Rally for Benchmark
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-09T11:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/swiss-stocks-decline-after-three-day-rally-for-benchmark.html
Swiss stocks  dropped, halting a
three-day rally, as investor concern over a decision this week
from U.S. lawmakers on air strikes against Syria overshadowed a
report showing Chinese exports rose more than expected.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Nestle SA posted the biggest declines
in the Swiss Market Index. Orell Fuessli Holding AG plunged the
most since 2008 after the printer of banknotes forecast
“negative results” for 2013.  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  climbed 1.7 percent
as reinsurers rose after forecasting stable rates.  The  SMI (SMI)  lost 0.5 percent to 7,908.71 at 1:45 p.m. in
Zurich. The benchmark gauge gained 2.6 percent last week,
posting the largest one-week gain since June 28. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also slipped 0.5 percent today.  “The geopolitical problems and the selloff in  emerging
markets  are clearly putting the breaks on risk assets,” Nicola Marinelli, who helps oversee $180 million as portfolio manager
at Glendevon King Ltd. in London, said by telephone. “The
apparent good news out of China is not enough because of Syria.
There is the prospect of international relationships becoming
more sour and it’s not clear what could happen to the
equilibrium in the  Middle East  if there is an attack.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  will try this week to persuade
a skeptical Congress and a reluctant American public to support
air strikes against Syria. He failed to win backing from foreign
leaders at last week’s Group of 20 summit for military action in
response to a chemical weapons attack that his administration
says killed more than 1,400 people.  China Trade  China’s August exports increased more than forecast.
Overseas shipments rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier, the
General Administration of Customs said in Beijing yesterday.
That beat the 5.5 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News .  Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, lost 1
percent to 232.80 Swiss francs. Nestle, the biggest food
company, slipped 0.9 percent to 60.75 francs.  Orell declined 10 percent to 90 francs. The security-printing unit, which produces Switzerland’s banknotes, may have
a loss of 8 million francs ($8.5 million) this year. The
business will be “severely depressed” after a client made
complaints on printing errors, Zurich-based Orell Fuessli said.  Swiss Re added 1.7 percent to 72.90 francs. Reinsurers are
meeting brokers and their clients, primary insurers, in  Monte
Carlo  to negotiate terms and conditions of next year’s property
and casualty policies.  Insurance Outlook  Swiss Re said it expects the price of natural-catastrophe
reinsurance to stabilize in 2014 after a drop this year.  Kurt Karl , chief economist of the world’s second-biggest reinsurer,
said marine and airline premiums will rise between 4 percent and
5.5 percent per annum on average over the next 10 years.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  climbed 3.8 percent to 176 francs.
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. raised the the world’s biggest maker
of dental implants to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from
market perform, which is similar to hold.  The brokerage said improvement in U.S.  consumer confidence 
points to an increase in demand for dental implants and the
company will benefit from growth in both sales and profit
margins.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  gained 2.6 percent to 71.50 francs, a one-month high. The maker of drug ingredients and chemicals was
upgraded to outperform from underperform by MainFirst Bank AG.
Analysts led by Bernd Pomrehn said the company’s new management
is implementing cost-cutting measures and a new strategy.  “These measures are substantially improving the earnings
visibility,” Zurich-based Pomrehn wrote. “Therefore, we are
confident that Lonza will achieve double-digit earnings growth
in the coming years.”  Cytos Biotechnology AG (CYTN)  advanced 4.1 percent to 4.06 francs,
paring an earlier rally of as much as 11 percent. The drugmaker
published a statement with data from a study on an asthma
treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  