-- Swiss Re Sees Catastrophe Reinsurance Prices Stabilize
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-09-09T06:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/swiss-re-sees-catastrophe-reinsurance-prices-stabilize.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s No. 2
reinsurer, said it expects the price of natural-catastrophe
reinsurance to stabilize in 2014 after a drop this year.  Demand for reinsurance coverage will double in “high
growth markets” and increase about 50 percent in so-called
mature markets by 2020, the Zurich-based reinsurer said in an e-mailed statement today, without elaborating.  Reinsurers such as Swiss Re, Munich Re, and Hannover Re are
meeting with brokers and their clients, primary insurers, in
 Monte Carlo  to negotiate terms and conditions of next year’s
property and casualty policies. The industry is under pressure
to shore up earnings hurt by low interest rates and as near-record capital available for coverage weighs on prices.  “Although prices for natural catastrophe covers are
expected to decrease in the short term, Swiss Re expects them to
stabilize in 2014,” the company said. “The U.S. liability
insurance market is hardening while it expects prices to remain
stable for other property and casualty segments.”  Munich Re (MUV2) , the world’s largest reinsurer, said yesterday it
sees stable rates for its property and casualty reinsurance at
January price negotiations, partly “due to the still
comparatively low interest rates” for proportional business,
where claims and premiums are shared with a primary insurer. The
Munich-based company “predicts no significant changes in prices
and conditions” in other business, it said.  ‘Threat’  Executives from Allianz Re, the reinsurance arm of
 Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , and the international reinsurance business
of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said earlier this month they expect
prices to be unchanged or fall next year. Terms and conditions
of the contracts might also see some deterioration, they said.  The increased sales of insurance-linked securities, or ILS,
such as catastrophe bonds, which allow reinsurers to tap
interest or principal payments when losses from specific events
surpass an agreed-upon threshold, “poses a threat to less
diversified and smaller reinsurers,” according to Swiss Re.  “Amid the continued low yield environment, alternative
capital continues to enter the reinsurance market in search of
attractive investment opportunities,” Swiss Re said. Seventy
percent “of this capital focuses on U.S. natural catastrophe
risks while other business lines are less affected.”  The company said the amount of alternative capital
currently stands at about $40 billion.  Munich Re, Swiss Re and  Hannover Re (HNR1)  are among reinsurers
typically renewing about two-thirds of their annual property and
casualty contracts in January. Munich Re said on Aug. 6 prices
declined 0.9 percent in July renewals, while Swiss Re reported a
drop of 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  