-- Syria Squeezes Atomic Monitors Between Russian, U.S. Requests
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-09-09T14:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/syria-squeezes-atomic-monitors-between-russian-u-s-requests.html
United Nations atomic monitors are
facing conflicting requests from the world’s two biggest nuclear
powers over their role in protecting Syrian citizens from
potential nuclear fallout.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  is considering a
request from  Russia  to analyze the risks of potential military
strikes against Syrian nuclear facilities, Director General
Yukiya Amano said today at a briefing. The Russian request was
opposed by U.S. IAEA envoy Joseph Macmanus, who said an agency
inquiry would go beyond its authority.  “We have to address the technical aspects, there are
certain political aspects and legal aspects,” Amano said in
Vienna. The request “is related to possible military action.
Views are divided so far.”  As the U.S. contemplates military strikes against the
government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Russia warned
last week that an attack on a research reactor in Damascus could
be catastrophic. The U.S. won a divisive IAEA vote in 2011 that
sent  Syria  to the UN Security Council over an alleged nuclear-weapon facility destroyed in 2007 by an Israeli raid.  “It is our view that requests for comprehensive risk
analysis of hypothetical scenarios are beyond the IAEA’s
statutory authority,” Macmanus said in prepared remarks. It
“will have to review such a request in light of legal
authorities, mandate and resources and must determine whether
there is a scientific basis for conducting a highly speculative
investigation of this kind.”  Asked whether a strike on the miniature neutron reactor in
Damascaus, housing about 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of highly
enriched uranium, could kill thousands or spread contamination
beyond Syria, Amano said “it is difficult to say.”  The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors is meeting this
week in the Austrian capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  