-- U.K. House-Price Index Rises to Highest Since 2006
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-10T10:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/u-k-house-price-index-rises-to-highest-since-2006.html
A U.K. house-price gauge rose to
the highest in almost seven years in August as the economic
recovery gathered pace and government measures boosted demand,
the  Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said.  The index increased to 40 from a revised 37 in July, the
highest since November 2006, London-based RICS said in a report
today, citing a poll of property surveyors. A proxy measure of
demand rose to a record, while the outlook for prices advanced
to the highest since 2002.  Recent reports suggest the property market is gaining
strength as credit-easing initiatives from the government and
the Bank of England boost mortgage availability. Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne defended his housing policy
yesterday amid criticism he may be fueling a new bubble, saying
it’s “sensible” and needed to help the market.  “House prices are a growing risk for the U.K.,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London  and a former BOE
official. “Any increase in house building we see over the next
few months and years, whilst welcome, will be woefully short of
what is required to keep prices under control.”  Respondents to RICS’s monthly survey forecast prices will
increase 2.2 percent over the coming 12 months and by 4.4
percent in each of the next five years. At the beginning of the
year, they predicted 0.6 percent and 3.4 percent, RICS said.  The index of new buyer enquiries increased to 66 in August
from 54 in July, the highest since the series began in 1999, and
the outlook for prices over the next three months climbed to 45
from 37. In a sign that supply is not keeping up with rising
demand, the measure of new seller instructions was at 26 last
month, up from 16 in July.  Osborne Boost  Osborne’s Help-to-Buy, which began in April, has already
spurred sales of newly built homes. The second phase, a
guarantee program meant to unlock 130 billion pounds ($204
billion) of mortgage lending, will be available for all homes
starting in January. The BOE’s Funding for Lending Scheme has
helped improve mortgage availability, RICS said.  Other reports have also painted a positive picture of the
housing market. Halifax, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender,
said last week that  home prices  rose for a seventh month in
August and will probably continue to increase through the rest
of the year. Hometrack Ltd. said on Sept. 2 that growth in home
values accelerated in August amid the strongest market
conditions in six years.  Monetary Policy  Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has said the BOE won’t
consider raising its key interest rate from a record low until
unemployment falls to 7 percent, something it doesn’t see
happening until late 2016.  Wood said the housing market could be a “big challenge”
for the interaction between the BOE’s monetary-policy function
and its “financial stability side, which is tasked with heading
off at the pass risks to the financial sector.”  RICS said the ratio of sales to stock, a measure of slack
in the market, is “well below” its long-run average,
indicating activity “has a long way to go before conditions are
back to normal.”  Bank of England Markets Director Paul Fisher said there is
no evidence of “bubble behavior” in the housing market and
price gains have been below the rate of inflation. The property
market should improve as supply increases, he said in an
interview published in the Sunday Times on Sept. 8.  “We think that improving demand, combined with supply
constraints, is likely to be supportive of house prices,”
Blerina Uruci, an economist at Barclays Plc in London, said
today. “However, in our view, the housing market is likely to
experience a gradual improvement, held in check by the still
weak state of household balance sheets, slow income growth and
the fact that housing affordability remains weak.”  France Production  Elsewhere today, French  industrial production  unexpectedly
fell for a third month in July, led by the automobile industry.
Output declined 0.6 percent from the previous month, when it
dropped 1.4 percent. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent gain,
according to the median of 22 estimates gathered by Bloomberg
News. Automobile output plunged 11.2 percent.  In  Italy , data showed the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the
 second quarte r, more than the 0.2 percent initially estimated.
Consumer spending declined 0.4 percent and exports increased 1.2
percent.  Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco said recent economic
indicators are “consistent with gradual improvement.” He also
said that downside economic risks “are compounded by investors’
concern about possible political instability.”  A senate panel is considering whether to vote in favor of
the expulsion of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, a move
that could undermine the coalition government. On Aug. 30
Berlusconi said that the PDL may withdraw its support for the
government if the senators of Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
Democratic Party vote to oust him from Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  