-- U.S. Tennis Open Seeks Muni Investors for Ashe Retractable Roof
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/u-s-tennis-open-seeks-muni-investors-for-ashe-retractable-roof.html
Investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market may be asked as soon as next year to help
pay for a retractable roof on New York’s Arthur Ashe Stadium, 
where Novak Djokovic will meet  Rafael Nadal  in the U.S. Open 
Tennis men’s final today.  The United States Tennis Association, the sport’s governing
body in America, wants to spend $100 million on a Teflon cover
for the Queens stadium, whose seating capacity of 23,771 makes
it the world’s largest tennis venue. Another $450 million will
go to erect two arenas, one with a folding roof. The U.S. Open
is the fourth and final grand slam event on the global tour.
Wimbledon in the U.K. and the Australian Open already have
retractable roofing, while the  French Open  plans a roof on its
main arena.  The expansion will attract more fans and boost revenue,
said John Mousseau, who helps manage about $2.2 billion of munis
as director of fixed income at Cumberland Advisors in Vineland,
 New Jersey .  “I have no doubt that they’ll be very successful with the
financing,” Mousseau said in a telephone interview from the
 U.S. Open .  Borrowings to fund the U.S. Open plan are set for early
2014 and may include taxable and tax-exempt municipal bonds, Ed Neppl, the association’s chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview from the event’s home, the Billie Jean King
National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows.  The USTA had about $81 million of debt as of Dec. 31,
according to a May 17 financial filing. Almost $26 million in
securities will mature this year and in November 2014, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The tennis organization may refund
the remainder to help draw attention to the new bonds, he said.  Ticket Revenue  Past USTA borrowings have been backed by ticket and
broadcast revenue, according to offering documents, and were
carried out through the  New York  City Industrial Development
Authority. The loans include taxable debt and private-activity
revenue bonds, which are tax-exempt securities sold to finance
economic development,  student loans  and housing.  The tennis organization is considering whether it can use
private-activity debt again and which city agency could be the
issuer, Neppl said.  “We’re in the process of learning and understanding what
exactly is available to us,” he said.  USTA bonds maturing in November 2021 and rated six steps
below top-rated securities last traded Sept. 4 at an average
price of 100.24 cents on the dollar, the highest price this
year, even as yields on benchmark 10-year munis have risen the
most since April 2011, Bloomberg data show. Yields move in the
opposite direction of prices. The debt is insured by  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   More Fans  The tournament, which concludes with the men’s finals
today, runs for about two weeks. A roof would allow the grand
slam to play during bad weather and avoid scheduling delays. The
tournament has suffered delays because of wet weather for the
past five years.  Attendance this year is slightly ahead of 2012, when
710,803 visitors attended, Chris Widmaier, a spokesman for the
USTA said in an e-mail. The fan count peaked in 2009 at 721,059.
With the expansion plan, the U.S. Open will accommodate an
additional 10,000 people daily, according to the USTA.  The weighted average ticket price during the 2012 U.S. Open
was $136, according to a May 17 financial filing. USTA collected
$95.3 million from ticket sales last year, the most since at
least 2003.  Construction will begin following this year’s tournament.
The tennis association expects the Ashe Stadium roof to be
completed by August 2017, with the whole expansion done in time
for the 2018 US Open.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  signed legislation last week
approving the expansion plans. The development will create 1,500
construction and full-time jobs during the next 10 years, Cuomo
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  