-- Umpqua Said in Talks to Buy Sterling for About $1.8 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-09-09T20:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/umpqua-said-in-talks-to-buy-sterling-for-about-1-8-billion-1-.html
Umpqua Holdings Corp. (UMPQ) ,  Oregon ’s
biggest bank, is in advanced talks to buy Sterling Financial
Corp., the lender backed by Warburg Pincus LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, said people with knowledge of the discussions.  The deal may be valued at about $1.8 billion, said one of
the people, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. The talks may still collapse and there’s no guarantee a
transaction will occur.  Buying Sterling would almost  double the size  of Portland-based Umpqua to more than $20 billion in assets and almost 400
branches, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The move
makes strategic and financial sense because it would help Umpqua
expand in California, said Joseph Morford, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in  San Francisco . The bank could save money by
closing some Sterling branches, he said.  “Given some of the overlap, we suspect it should be very
accretive to earnings,” said Morford, who covers Umpqua and
predicts the stock will perform in line with its  sector .  Warburg Pincus  and Thomas H. Lee each held more than 20
percent of Sterling’s  common stock  as of June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Spokesmen for Sterling, Warburg and Thomas H.
Lee declined to comment. A representative at Umpqua didn’t reply
to a request for comment.  Sterling had a market value of about $1.7 billion as of
Sept. 6. The Spokane, Washington-based lender rose 3.5 percent
to $27.72 as of 4 p.m. in New York. Umpqua advanced 5 percent to
$17.11.  Bank Expansion  Umpqua Chief Executive Officer Raymond P. Davis has sought
to bulk up over the past two years through mergers and
acquisitions. The lender, which has about $11.4 billion in
assets, completed the purchase of Financial Pacific Holding
Corp. in July, and last year bought Circle Bancorp, a six-branch
lender in Novato,  California .  A deal for Sterling would be the second-largest U.S. bank
takeover announced this year, behind PacWest Bancorp’s $2.2
billion offer in July for CapitalSource Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There have been more than $8 billion in
announced U.S. bank deals announced this year, the data show.  Sterling took $303 million from the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, repaid a year ago
through a public stock offering. The bank, run by CEO Greg Seibly, had $9.9 billion in assets as of midyear, with deposits
of $6.6 billion from about 170 branches in Washington, Oregon,
 Idaho  and California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  