-- Turkey Industry Output Suggests Growth Above 3%
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-09-09T10:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/turkey-industry-output-suggests-growth-above-3-caglayan-says.html
(Corrects direction of lira move in fifth paragraph.)  Sept. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Turkey ’s industrial production
expanded in July at the fastest pace in more than a year, and
Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said the figures show the
economy may grow more than 3 percent this year.  Industrial growth on a workday-adjusted basis rose 4.6
percent in July from a year ago, the fastest pace since May 2012
year, the state statistics agency in Ankara said today on its
website. Output rose 0.9 percent on the month on a workday and
seasonally adjusted basis, according to official data.  Turkey’s economy grew at the slowest pace since the 2009
recession last year. Obstacles to growth this year include a
plunge in the lira and government bonds, as emerging-market
assets declined on expectations the U.S. will start withdrawing
monetary stimulus, and the conflict in neighboring  Syria .  “Although the industrial output increased more than
expectations and suggests a strong start for the third quarter,
considering the loss of value in Turkish lira, we think the
production will slow in the period ahead,” Ali Cakiroglu, a
strategist at HSBC Asset Management, said in an e-mailed note
today.  The lira gained 0.5 percent to 2.0398 per dollar at 11 a.m.
in Istanbul. Yields on benchmark two-year notes were down 9
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.37 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If today’s better-than-expected data continues in August
and September, then we may see a better figure in the third
quarter,” Caglayan said in reference to economic growth,
predicting the full-year figure will be “a bit over 3
percent.”  That falls short of the government’s year-end growth target
of 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  