-- Muslim Rebels Take Hostages in Southern Philippines Before Talks
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-09-09T23:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/muslim-rebels-take-20-hostages-in-clash-with-philippine-military.html
Muslim rebels clashed with the
military in the southern Philippines, killing four people and
taking at least 20 civilians hostage in violence that may strain
peace talks with other Islamic fighters.  Two civilians, one soldier and a policeman were killed as
the hostages were taken, while 14 people were hurt in the
fighting in the southern island of Mindanao’s city of Zamboanga
yesterday between government forces and the Moro National
Liberation Front, police spokesman Senior Superintendent Wilben
Mayor said in  Manila  yesterday.  The clashes may add to tension as President  Benigno Aquino 
prepares for peace talks this month with a separate group, the
Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which is seeking an autonomous
Muslim region in Mindanao. A four-decade insurgency there has
killed as many as 200,000 people and stifled development of an
area rich in mineral deposits.  The Moro National Liberation Front is letting the
government know that it should be included in peace talks,
Benito Lim, a professor of political science at Ateneo de Manila
University, said by phone. “You can’t achieve peace and
economic development in Mindanao if other groups will continue
the disruptions,” he said.  Aquino sent the heads of the defense and interior
ministries to Zamboanga to ensure the safety of civilians, his
spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in a statement. Lacierda said
authorities were trying to restore order as soon as possible and
the rebels were using civilians as human shields.  Hostages Taken  About 240 civilians were seized in Zamboanga, regional
police spokesman Ariel Huesca said in a phone interview. About
1,500 people had fled their homes seeking shelter in schools and
a church, Zamboanga Mayor Isabelle Climaco said. Those numbers
couldn’t be immediately verified by the central government.  The Moro National Liberation Front, founded more than four
decades ago to push for an independent Muslim state, signed a
peace deal with the government in 1996. The Moro Islamic
Liberation Front broke away from the MNLF due to policy
differences.  Troops were deployed in Zamboanga late on Sept. 8 after the
military received intelligence that armed men would head to the
coastal town of Rio Hondo, some of them by boat, military public
affairs chief Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala said at a briefing
yesterday. About 300 rebels took civilian hostages after
learning that government forces were closing in, he said.  ‘Contain Them’  “Our mission right now is to contain them and prevent them
from getting out of the Rio Hondo area,” Zagala said, adding
that the rebels had made no demands.  The armed group accused police of harassment, saying its
members had gathered in the city to hold a peace rally,
spokesman Emmanuel Fontanilla told ABS-CBN. Police arrested six
Moro National Liberation Front members, Huesca said in a mobile-phone message.  All commercial flights to and from Zamboanga were canceled
for security reasons, the Department of Transportation and
Communications said on its Twitter account. Malaysia issued a
security alert along its sea borders with the southern
 Philippines , The Star newspaper reported yesterday on its
website, citing the Eastern Sabah Security Command.  Last month, the government reported “substantial
progress” toward a peace accord with the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front after four days of negotiation where the two
sides discussed sharing power and disarming the rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  