-- Vevo Views Rise by a Third as It Expands Mobile Access
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/vevo-views-rise-by-a-third-as-it-expands-mobile-access.html
Vevo LLC, the online music-video
service, said its viewership jumped by a third as it expands
beyond  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube with applications for mobile
devices and web-connected-televisions.  Vevo had 1.58 billion worldwide viewers in the second
quarter ended in June, compared with 1.17 billion a year
earlier, the New York-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Half of Vevo’s audience now comes from
smartphones, tablet computers and Web-connected set-top TV boxes
such as Roku.  The company, controlled by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music and
 Sony Corp. (6758) , started a 24-hour music network for U.S. and
Canadian viewers in March, accessible through its website and
apps for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone and devices running
Google’s Android software. It plans to expand the service to
pay-TV systems to increase advertising sales and create new
revenue from subscriber fees.  “We’re seeing a lot of growth on our platforms outside of
YouTube,” Chief Executive Officer Rio Caraeff said in a phone
interview. “Our strategy is to give viewers videos wherever
they are -- and not force them to watch on YouTube.”  Vevo, founded in 2009, started out distributing videos on
YouTube in exchange for a portion of the ad revenue generated.
Its service now shows about 122 million music videos daily
worldwide, according to the statement. In June, it streamed 4
billion videos, compared with 3 billion in the same month a year
earlier.  The company remains in discussions with pay-TV services to
carry its channel, Caraeff said. Such a service would put Vevo
in direct competition with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s MTV and VH1 channels.  Vevo is seeking to raise money from investors, including
Guggenheim Partners LLC, people with knowledge of the process
said earlier this year. It reached a new distribution deal with
YouTube in July that included Google making a $50 million
investment in the service.  Vevo’s service is available overseas in Australia, Brazil,
Canada, France, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, New Zealand,
Poland, Spain and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  