-- Netflix Added to Virgin Media U.K. TV in Industry First
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-10T14:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/virgin-media-u-k-pay-tv-service-adds-netflix-in-first.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s subscription-video
service will be offered on  Virgin Media  cable systems in the
U.K., marking the first time the Web-delivered product is
integrated by a major pay-TV provider.  Virgin Media,  purchased  this year by John Malone’s Liberty
Global Plc, will begin testing Netflix with 40,000 customers who
use  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  set-top boxes, according to a statement today. The
feature, which requires a Netflix subscription, will be
available this year to all 1.7 million of its TiVo users.  The agreement marks a breakthrough for Netflix, blurring
the line between traditional pay-TV and so-called over-the-top
services delivered through the Web, such as Netflix and
Amazon.com Inc.’s U.K.-based LoveFilm. Virgin Media customers
will be able to search for Netflix shows on the same on-screen
guide they use to hunt for pay-TV programs.  “It’s a huge win for Netflix,” said Michael Pachter, an
analyst with Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles. “Cable sees
Netflix as a possible problem for them, an alternative to cable.
This is an acknowledgement by Virgin that its customers want
that type of service as well.”  Virgin Media, based in New York, had 3.77 million customers
at the end of June, all in the U.K. Of those, 44 percent use
set-top boxes from San Jose, California-based TiVo, the company
that pioneered digital-video recorders. That’s up from 25
percent a year earlier, according to Virgin Media.  Pay-TV operators are struggling to adapt to a shift in
viewer habits whereby more consumers watch shows on laptops,
tablets, or even smartphones as they commute.  Digital Rights  In an agreement reached last week after a one-month
dispute,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  obtained a significant price increase from
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  while holding on to most out-of-home
rights, people with knowledge of the situation said then.  Sony Corp. and Intel Corp. are among tech companies working
to deliver Web-based TV products, another threat to established
pay-TV players.  With TiVo’s system, a Virgin Media customer searching for
shows featuring actor Kevin Spacey would see on a single screen
options for “The Usual Suspects” from Virgin Movies and
“House of Cards,” a Netflix original, said Gareth Mead, a
Virgin Media spokesman.  “We’re delighted to be bringing yet another groundbreaking
service onto TV screens in millions of Virgin Media homes,”
Dana Strong, Virgin Media’s chief operating officer, said in the
statement.  Web Separation  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , is widely
available on game consoles, televisions and Blu-ray players.  While TiVo software lets users search on a single screen
for content across pay-TV, online subscription services and on-demand sites, cable and satellite operators that offer TiVo
boxes to their customers typically disable the feature.  “It’s the first time Netflix has ever been added to an
operator box,” said Steve Wymer, a spokesman for TiVo. “It’s a
big deal, especially if it helps open the gates for operators
globally to integrate and stream over-the-top content.”  Rather than spend money on sports rights or other exclusive
programming, Virgin Media has focused on the speed of its
broadband service as a plus as it competes with British Sky
 Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  for pay-TV customers.
The deal with Netflix underscores that effort.  Netflix rose 3.5 percent to $304.50 at 10:20 a.m. in New
York. The shares, which have more than  tripled  this year to lead
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, are trading  near  the stock’s
record intraday high of $304.79 in July 2011. TiVo, meanwhile,
advanced less than 1 percent to $12.07 today. It had lost 2.8
percent this year through yesterday.  Liberty Global completed its acquisition of Virgin Media in
June. The company, based in Englewood,  Colorado , rose 1.1
percent to $77.61 today in New York. It had climbed 22 percent
this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  