-- Warburg, TPG Said to Pocket 150% Profit on Neiman Marcus
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-09-09T19:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/warburg-tpg-said-to-pocket-150-profit-on-neiman-marcus.html
Neiman Marcus Inc.’s private-equity
backers stand to reap more than a 150 percent profit in the
luxury-goods retailer’s $6 billion sale to Ares Management LLC
and the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Buyout firm  Warburg Pincus  LLC, which is based in New York,
and TPG Capital, led by  Fort Worth ,  Texas , financier  David Bonderman , will garner about $2.75 billion in the sale, based on
information in Neiman Marcus’s regulatory filings. Including
their share of a dividend paid last year, the two sponsors will
pocket about $3.1 billion, or more than 2.5 times the $1.2
billion they sank into a $5.1 billion leveraged buyout of Neiman
Marcus in 2005, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  The owners, who had filed for an initial public offering of
Neiman Marcus in June, opted for an outright sale after as
private-equity firms race to sell assets amid rising stock
values and strong credit markets.  Lisa Baker , a TPG spokeswoman at Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc., and Ed Trissel, a Warburg Pincus spokesman,
declined to comment on the firms’ profit.  The firms took a combined 83 percent equity stake in the
company when they brought it private, according to regulatory
filings. Los Angeles-based private-equity firm Leonard Green &
Partners LP and Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit co-invested in the deal eight years ago.  The $6 billion price equates to 9.5 times Neiman Marcus’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, in the 12 months ended April 27, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Repaid  Warburg Pincus and TPG had paid about 9 times trailing
Ebitda for the company.  Neiman Marcus  has repaid more than $500
million of the $3.2 billion of debt used to finance the 2005
acquisition, according to company filings.  Neiman Marcus is the ninth investment Warburg Pincus has
exited this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
biggest was eye-care company Bausch & Lomb, whose $9 billion
sale brought Warburg Pincus a profit of about 200 percent on its
$1.7 billion investment, a person familiar with the matter said
in May. The firm oversees more than $40 billion in assets.  TPG, which oversees $55.3 billion, has been a more active
buyer than seller in 2013, engineering about 20 small and mid-size purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  