-- Wells Fargo Says Rate Rises Won’t Stall Housing Rebound
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-09T14:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/wells-fargo-says-rising-rates-won-t-snuff-out-housing-recovery.html
Rising mortgage rates probably won’t
slow the housing recovery because new families are being created
and homes are still affordable,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief
Financial Officer Tim Sloan said.  “We don’t believe that the recent increases in mortgage
rates are going to in any way, shape or form snuff out the
housing recovery,” Sloan said today at an investor  conference 
in New York. “When you look at any sort of statistics in the
demographics in terms of household creation as well as household
affordability, they are still very attractive and should drive a
continued recovery in the housing business.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has risen
more than 1.2 percentage points since hitting a low of 3.35
percent in May, according to  Freddie Mac  data. That hasn’t
slowed U.S. home prices, which rose 7.7 percent this year
through June, according to an August report from the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , Freddie Mac’s and  Fannie Mae ’s overseer.  The increase in  mortgage rates  has slowed refinancings, and
the bank may originate about $80 billion in home loans in the
third quarter, down 29 percent from the three-month period ended
June 30, Sloan said. The San Francisco-based lender’s gain-on-sale margin, what it gets from selling loans to be packaged into
securities and sold to investors, will fall to about 1.5 percent
from 2.21 percent in the second quarter, he said.  Wells Fargo is the largest U.S. mortgage lender,
originating about 1 in 4 home loans in the first half, according
to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication.  The bank slid 0.80 percent to $41.12 at 10:28 a.m. in New
York. The shares jumped 21 percent this year through last week,
compared with the 16 percent  advance  of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  