-- Workers Nudged to Health Exchanges Seen Costing Taxpayers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-10T12:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/workers-nudged-to-health-exchanges-seen-costing-taxpayers.html
U.S. retirees being pushed out of
company-sponsored health plans may prove a harbinger for
existing employees as well.  About $6.7 billion in taxpayer money may be at risk if
companies raise premiums by as little as $100 a month. That may
spur as many as 2.25 million people to drop company coverage and
enroll in plans under the Affordable Care Act, Stanford
University researchers said.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) 
have said that they’ll give retirees a stipend to move to
coverage in private health exchanges. Rising health-care costs
and the availability of new government coverage options may spur
companies to similarly shift active workers out of employer-sponsored insurance.  The cost of Obamacare “is much more sensitive than people
previously appreciated” to employers’ decisions to drop
coverage,  Jay Bhattacharya , an economist and Stanford associate
professor of medicine, said in an interview. He published a
study in the journal Health Affairs yesterday that shows about
37 million workers would get a better deal in the taxpayer-subsided exchanges next year than through their companies as
employers raise or redistribute health costs.  “The taxpayers are going to get hammered,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former Congressional Budget Office director who
is now president of American Action Forum, a Washington-based
advocacy group that opposes the health law. “It’s going to be
extraordinarily expensive.”  Company Fines  The health exchanges established under the 2010 Affordable
Care Act are set to open Oct. 1. They are being created to
provide medical coverage for most of the 50 million Americans
who currently are  uninsured . Enrollees will be able to select
from a menu of private health plans and in some cases will
receive federal tax credits to defray the cost.  Companies with 50 or more workers must pay a fine of as
much as $3,000 for every employee who obtains a subsidy for
exchange plans, though the penalty in most cases will be less
than what the company now pays for health coverage. The Obama
administration’s decision in July to delay the penalties until
2015 may encourage more companies to drop coverage next year,
Bhattacharya said.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated in May that about
7 million workers will lose employer-sponsored coverage by 2018,
either because their companies stop offering it or people choose
to go to the exchanges. Tax credits will cost $26 billion next
year, rising to $118 billion by 2018, according to the CBO.  Employment Lock  A separate analysis of the issue, also published yesterday
in Health Affairs, argues that labor markets may be improved if
more workers than expected enroll through the exchanges. People
who otherwise feel locked into their jobs for health coverage
may be freed to start businesses or retire early, said Thomas Buchmueller, a professor of risk management and insurance at the
 University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business.  “We, at a minimum, should not be concerned if people make
that transition,” Buchmueller said in a telephone interview.
“It just means there’s more good options for people.”  Independent estimates of the number of Americans who may
leave their employer-sponsored health plans because of the
Affordable Care Act vary widely. A July study by  Craig
Garthwaite  of Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of
Management predicts as many as 940,000. That number is an
estimate of how many adults without children are working because
of what the researchers call “employment lock.”  “That speaks to what we might see in January,” Garthwaite
said. “One of the risks to starting a business is that it’s
really hard to get benefits when you’re just a one- or two-person firm and Obamacare is going to change that.”  Changed Relationship  Workers can opt out of their companies’ health plans if
premiums cost more than 9.5 percent of their incomes, under the
law. The test is based on the cost of an individual plan, not
the more expensive family coverage, a policy that will hold down
eligibility for exchange subsidies, Bhattacharya said  American Action Forum predicts 43 million workers will lose
their employer-sponsored plans. That would make exchanges the
dominant source of U.S. insurance coverage, Holtz-Eakin said.  “You’d get different insurance-provider relationships and
different care models,” he said in a phone interview. “You
certainly wouldn’t get the interference from labor markets we
have now with health insurance. Those would be benefits.”  Buchmueller doesn’t expect that many workers to lose their
coverage or opt for exchange plans, pointing to results in
 Massachusetts , where employer-sponsored insurance increased
after 2006, when the state enacted a health-care overhaul that
later served as the model for the federal Affordable Care Act.  Workers, looking to avoid paying a penalty for not carrying
insurance, pressured their employers to provide it, an effect
Buchmueller’s study calls “crowd-in.” That may happen under
the national health law as well, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  