-- WTI Falls From Two-Year High as Obama Presses for Syria Action
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-09T12:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/wti-crude-drops-from-two-year-high-as-china-s-crude-imports-slip.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
from the highest level in more than two years as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  struggled to persuade lawmakers of the need for a
military strike against Syria.  Futures slid as much as 0.7 percent in  New York  after two
days of gains. Obama will meet on  Capitol Hill  tomorrow with
Senate Democrats, according to a Senate aide who requested
anonymity because the meeting hasn’t been publicly announced.
The Senate may vote on a resolution by the end of the week. The
chamber’s top Republican, Kentucky’s  Mitch McConnell , hasn’t
said whether he will back a military strike.  “The key reason for the pullback is Syria,” said Amrita
Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a
research company in London. “The market continues to wait and
watch every move of the U.S., and there has been little progress
in terms of finalizing the strikes.”  WTI for October delivery dropped as much as 77 cents to
$109.76 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $110.08 at 1:48 p.m. London time.
Prices rose 2 percent to $110.53 on Sept. 6, the highest close
since May 3, 2011. The volume of all futures traded was about 4
percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for October settlement declined as much as $1.72, or
1.5 percent, to $114.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $4.72 to WTI futures, from $5.59 on Sept. 6.  Syrian Upheaval  Brent advanced for a fourth week last week, its longest
gain since February, amid concern that an escalation of the
conflict in Syria may disrupt regional oil supplies.  Assad disputes U.S. allegations that he used chemical
weapons against civilians last month and said the Obama
administration hasn’t proved he did, according to CBS News
correspondent  Charlie Rose , who interviewed the Syrian
president.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  told a news conference in
London today that an “unbelievably small, limited” military
strike will be enough to halt Syria’s use of chemical weapons
and hasten a political settlement to the 2 1/2-year civil war.  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders Iraq, the largest
producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  China Imports  “There’s a lot going on at the moment and traders are just
prepared to keep valuations or prices around current levels as
they await further developments, particularly in  Syria ,” said
Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney who
predicts investors may buy WTI contracts at about $105.70 a
barrel.  China’s net  crude imports  fell in August to the lowest
level since September as refiners in the world’s second-largest
oil consumer shut the most plants for repairs this year.  China’s overseas crude purchases exceeded exports by the
equivalent of 5.02 million barrels a day, according to data
released on the website of the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs. That’s 18 percent less than July’s
record of 6.13 million. The Asian nation is the world’s biggest
oil consumer after the U.S.  Large speculators decreased their net-long positions in WTI
by 11,552 futures and options combined, or 3.6 percent, to
305,971 in the seven days ended Sept. 3, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said in its weekly report on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  