-- McClain Steps Down as Xylem Chief After Stock Disappoints
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-09-09T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/xylem-names-loranger-ceo-and-president-after-mcclain-s-departure.html
Gretchen McClain, the chief
executive officer of water company Xylem Inc., resigned and was
replaced on an interim basis by  ITT Corp. (ITT) ’s former chairman
Steven Loranger.  McClain, 50, left “to pursue other opportunities,” the
White Plains, New York-based company said in a statement today.
The board initiated a search for the next CEO. Xylem, whose
pumps helped clear New York tunnels of  Hurricane Sandy  waters,
was spun off from ITT in 2011.  The change was prompted in part by Xylem’s 3.4 percent
 decline  this year through Sept. 6 compared with ITT’s 45 percent
gain, according to David Rose, an analyst with Wedbush
Securities Inc. in Los Angeles.  With a “lackluster performance of the shares since the
spinoff and the most recent earnings disappointment, we believe
there has been a significant amount of pressure to improve
performance quickly,” Rose said in an interview today. “The
case had not been made that a turnaround was imminent.”  The shares gained 2.3 percent to $26.78 at the close in New
York, the most in more than two months. The company reported
earnings of $46 million for the second quarter. Analysts had
expected $70.9 million.  “Xylem has a great portfolio of products to address
growing global water challenges,” Rose said. “However, with
the recent operational challenges and the sudden departure of
its CEO without a long-term replacement, the near-term outlook
remains cloudy.”  ‘Surprise’ Departure  McClain was scheduled to present at the Vertical Research
Partners 2013 Industrials Conference tomorrow. Her departure was
a “surprise,” Rose said.  Investors won’t be satisfied with Loranger, 61, as CEO for
a “long period,” he said.  Xylem should hire someone with “good insight on water”
who can engage with the industry and oversee a “very
challenging realignment of European” operations while driving
sales and acquisitions, he said.  Xylem in today’s statement reaffirmed its July 30 forecast
for 2013 sales of about $3.7 billion and net income of $260
million to $279 million. Analysts are expecting earnings of $241
million this year on sales of $3.73 billion, the average  of
eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  A CEO must “demonstrate you can exceed estimates,” Rose
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  