-- YY to AutoNavi Rally as Exports Boost Outlook: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-09T21:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-09/yy-to-rda-rally-as-exports-boost-growth-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose to the
highest level in seven months in New York, led by  AutoNavi
Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , as better-than-estimated export growth boosted
the outlook for Asia’s biggest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.8 percent to 101.36
yesterday, gaining for a fifth day. AutoNavi, which provides
digital map content to companies from Sina Corp. to Apple Inc.,
surged 19 percent for a record rally.  YY Inc. (YY) , an operator of
entertainment websites, advanced 8.4 percent while  E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  jumped the most since May.  The China-US gauge followed stock indexes in  Shanghai  and
Hong Kong higher after data showed  China ’s overseas shipments
rose 7.2 percent last month, beating the 5.5 percent median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The measure tracking
U.S.-traded Chinese shares has risen 24 percent since reaching a
two-year low on June 24, as reports ranging from industrial
production to money supply signaled the economy is stabilizing.  “Internet names are liquid ways for U.S. investors to play
an improving China environment and you’ll continue to see these
doing well,” David Riedel, president of Riedel Research Group
Inc. in New York, said by phone yesterday. “Investors have been
too pessimistic about the outlook for the Chinese economy,”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 2.4 percent to a
three-month high of $38.27 in New York. Its seven-day advance
was the longest stretch of gains this year. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index added 1 percent, extending a rally into a fifth
day.  AutoNavi Soars  Beijing-based AutoNavi jumped to $15.51 in New York in the
biggest one-day rally since its U.S. listing in July 2010.
Trading volume was four times the average over the past three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  AutoNavi Chief Executive Officer Cheng Congwu said the next
12 months will be the most important time window for the company
to expand its mobile map user base and market share, which has
led to its decision to offer mobile navigation map for free,
according to a note by Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd.
yesterday.  AutoNavi saw shares tumble a record 14 percent on Aug. 28
after saying it would offer free premium navigation apps for
Apple and Android smartphones in China. Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce company, invested $294 million
in AutoNavi in May for a 28 percent stake.  YY, based in  Guangzhou , surged to $46.49, the highest level
since its U.S. initial public offering in November. The gain
extended its rally this year to 226 percent.  Dangdang Surges  Dangdang, an Internet retailer based in Beijing, gained 14
percent to $9.23, bringing its surge this year to 122 percent.  “There’s still a lot of value left” in China’s Internet
sector, Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, said by phone. “A lot of people are
thinking that the mobile traffic platforms are going to be
monetized through gaming in the near future, with ads and e-commerce at a later stage.”  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, added three casual games in an updated version
last month of WeChat, its instant messaging application, its
first attempt to monetize 236 million active users, Bloomberg
Industries analyst Praveen Menon wrote in a note.  RDA Microelectronics Inc. (RDA) , a Shanghai-based semiconductor
components maker, soared 7 percent to $13.43 in New York, the
highest since February 2012. Volume was six times the 90-day
average. Eight out of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
recommend buying the stock while three rate it hold.  Phoenix, Noah  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , a Beijing-based TV and Internet
news outlet, jumped 11 percent to $11.29, the highest price
since June 2011.  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH) , which distributes wealth-management products for commissions, advanced 9.6 percent to
$16.18, rising the most in four weeks.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , an
online fashion retailer based in Guangzhou, surged 9.3 percent
to $47.89, the biggest gain since February.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.9 percent
to a three-month high of 10,528.69. The Shanghai Composite Index
surged 3.4 percent to 2,212.52, the most since December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  