-- 
$1,250 Lunch for Two in London: Welcome to the French Laundry

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/-1-250-lunch-for-two-in-london-welcome-to-the-french-laundry-at-harrods.html
The  French Laundry at Harrods , which
opened on Saturday and lasts just 10 days, might politely be
described as a phenomenon.  Hundreds are on the waiting list each day at this pop-up
restaurant, the managers say, undeterred by a price tag of 250
pounds ($387) per person, plus service and wine. Throw in a
generous serving of matching wines and your lunch bill for two
may reach 805 pounds -- or $1,250 -- as mine did.  What do you get for your money? Ten courses of exquisite
food prepared by  Thomas Keller , one of the world’s most
respected chefs. He’s brought over about 15 members of his team
from the French Laundry, in Yountville,  California . If you’re
familiar with his U.S. restaurants, you may spot staffers from
Per Se, in  New York , and from the various Bouchon outlets.  Harrods has constructed a special dining room on the fourth
floor, with a version of the facade of the French Laundry.
Diners eat from tableware that has also made the trip from the
U.S., as have many of the ingredients. A booklet distributed to
customers lists the suppliers, from Sterling Caviar of
Sacramento, California, to the Chef’s Garden, of Huron,  Ohio .  It feels as though no expense has been spared, as you might
expect at these prices. The restaurant conducted three practice
services -- for friends and family, chefs and journalists --
before opening to the public on Oct. 1. I attended one of these
meals on the night before the opening (for which diners weren’t
charged) and lunch on the first day, for which I paid.  Hartnett, Perry Lang  (I went along for the latter meal with chef  Angela Hartnett 
and was impressed both with the dishes Keller sent out for her
to try and with the fact he varied my menu so I wouldn’t eat all
the same things twice. I went to the preview with Adam Perry Lang, who is  Jamie Oliver ’s partner at Barbecoa. Both chefs
commented repeatedly on the quality of the cooking.)  The service was immaculate from start to finish, as if the
French Laundry at Harrods had been running for years, the food
brilliant. Keller, 55, was there in the kitchen, checking every
dish -- I went in to take a look -- and only emerged into the
dining room when everyone had been served.  The menu features several classic Keller concoctions, my
favorite of which is Oysters and Pearls: a sabayon of pearl
tapioca with oyster juice is served with Maldon oysters and
Sterling White Sturgeon caviar. It’s creamy and smoky and rich.  The menu alternates between indulgent treats and lighter
dishes, such as the salad of Hawaiian hearts of peach palm,
which contains Medjool date, young coconut, French Laundry
garden carrots, red radish, and candied pili nuts.  Miniature Perfection  While this might not sound light -- it even contains a hint
of Madras curry -- the radish is the smallest I have ever seen,
about the size of a baby’s fingernail, the carrot is shaved as
thin as an ungenerous chef’s white truffle. The elements are
tiny, the whole harmonious as a barbershop quartet. It’s
perfection in miniature: bonsai gastronomy.  Other standouts include Poularde en Brioche, with Moulard
duck foie gras, warm Sauternes jelly, Tokyo turnips, green
apples and Perigord truffle coulis. A few of the courses play on
classic dishes, such as chowder (with  Sacramento  River sturgeon,
razor clams and sweet corn) and a peanut-butter dessert.  The dishes are imaginative without being pretentious and
amusing without being silly. Their beauty is striking and the
cooking of every element is faultless. Only a couple of
ingredients detract from the perfection of the whole: the Maine
lobster is an advertisement for the flavor of its Scottish
cousin and the beauty of the beef (with black trumpet mushrooms,
pumpkin and fennel) was mainly in the seasoning.  Michelin Stars  Keller is an outstanding and original chef who deserves all
seven of the Michelin stars he holds, including three for the
French Laundry, which won the  World’s Best Restaurant  title in
2003 and 2004. The pop-up is a triumph for him and for Harrods.  It’s an event that will be talked about in the culinary
world for years to come. Eating there is like getting a ticket
for the 100 Meters in the  Olympic Games . (You can pay  725 pounds 
for that final in London.)  In that sense, dining there isn’t about the cost, and if
you want to go and can afford it and can get a reservation, you
should go. But it is a pop-up and it just whetted my appetite
for a first visit to the mothership in California.  French Laundry at Harrods, 4th Floor, 87-135 Brompton Road
Knightsbridge, Greater London SW1X 7XL. Harrods store inquiries:
+44-20-7730-1234,  http://www.harrods.com .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 250 pounds.  Sound level? Hushed, 65 decibels.  Inside tip? Take your bank manager.  Special feature? It’s the French Laundry.  Will I be back? Sadly no.  Date place? It’s a place to propose.  Rating? ***1/2.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80:  London  street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  