-- 
Elton John’s Broadway Musical ‘Billy Elliot’ Announces January 8 Closing

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-10-03T21:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/-billy-elliot-broadway-show-to-shut-down-in-january-after-three-year-run.html
Three years and three months after it
danced onto Broadway, the $18 million Elton John musical “ Billy
Elliot”  is closing, its producers said today.  Stephanie Lee, president of Group Sales Box Office, said
“Billy Elliot” producers, including  Universal Pictures  and
Weinstein Live Entertainment, treated her and other ticket
agents to an “appreciation lunch” last week in the Theater
District.  “It was a gracious gesture, so it was very surprising to
hear the news today,” she said. “Everyone thought it would run
longer than three years.”  The show, about striking British coal miners during the
Margaret Thatcher era of denationalization, has been running in
 London ’s West End since 2005. It hasn’t proven as popular with
Broadway audiences.  Recently the producers attempted to make the show more
appealing to American audiences by changing some of the working-
class British slang. They also reduced the amount of profanity
in the show.  Based on the 2000 film of the same name, “ Billy Elliot ”
is about a boy from a depressed mining town who develops a love
for ballet dancing. The show won the 2009  Tony Award  for best
musical -- and nine other Tonys -- and recouped its initial
investment after 14 months.  “Billy Elliot” grossed $718,000 last week, 54 percent of
capacity, according to the Broadway League. Its Jan. 8
shuttering will follow by a week that of “The  Addams Family ,”
which will have run 22 months on Broadway.  A magnet for tourists, Broadway has been considered largely
immune from stock market drama and U.S. economic woes. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9 percent today to 1099, a
one-year low.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 