-- 
H&M Targets Expansion in Asia for Fast-Growing Monki, COS Upmarket Brands

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-10-03T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/h-m-targets-expansion-in-asia-for-fast-growing-monki-cos-upmarket-brands.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest clothing retailer, plans to step up the expansion of its
new brands in Asia, anticipating that Chinese consumers will
favor more-expensive labels such as Monki and COS.  H&M is looking at locations in  Hong Kong  for the upmarket
COS brand, Pernilla Wohlfahrt, head of new business at
Stockholm-based H&M, said in a telephone interview. Hong Kong
“could be a testing ground for  China ,” she said.  H&M is adding stores in China more rapidly than anywhere
else, turning to the world’s fastest-growing major economy to
help reverse falling profit. The retailer opened its first Monki
outlet in Hong Kong a year ago, having gained control of the
brand’s owner and two other labels in 2008. Larger rival  Inditex
SA (ITX)  has eight brands, including Zara and Bershka, and has opened
150 Chinese stores in five years, compared with 61 for H&M.  “We are seeing very healthy growth across the newer
business,” said Wohlfahrt, who oversees H&M’s Monki, Weekday,
Cheap Monday, COS and H&M Home units. “All these brands have a
great opportunity to grow.”  H&M, which last week reported a 17 percent decline in
third-quarter earnings, aims to increase its overall store space
by 10 percent to 15 percent annually and hasn’t specified
targets for individual brands for next year. The brands
currently account for almost 5 percent of H&M’s 2,325 stores.  H&M shares have trailed Arteixo, Spain-based Inditex this
year, dropping 10 percent compared with a 12 percent gain for
its main rival. Inditex sources a lower proportion of clothing
than its rival in  Asia , where labor costs have soared.  Slower Expansion  H&M has opened fewer than 10 stores for the newer brands
this year after adding more than 30 last year.  “We expanded very aggressively last year, and we took
things a little more slowly this year,” said Wohlfahrt. “We
can start growing again.”  H&M took full control of FaBric Scandinavien, the owner of
the Weekday, Monki and Cheap Monday brands, in November, having
acquired 60 percent in 2008. The company has tripled the number
of stores for the three brands to 69 since it first bought a
stake. Cheap Monday apparel is sold in almost 40 countries and
1,800 stores, including Selfridges department stores. H&M Home,
introduced in 2009, is sold at eight stores and online.  While H&M sells dresses for less than 15 euros ($20.18),
Monki advertizes 50-euro biker-boots and duffle coats for 120
euros. Weekday offers 140-euro capes, while COS sells merino-
knit dresses for 79 euros and leather trousers for 250 euros.  The newer brands have “strong” potential and sales growth
of COS, Monki and Weekday should be above the group average,
according to  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at  Societe Generale  in
 London . She doesn’t have individual estimates for the brands and
has a “buy” recommendation on H&M stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  