-- 
3i Said to Weigh Making an Offer for Axa’s Private-Equity Unit

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-10-03T16:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/3i-said-to-weigh-making-an-offer-for-axa-s-private-equity-unit.html
3i Group Plc (III) , the U.K.’s largest
publicly traded buyout firm, is exploring whether to bid for the
private-equity fund unit of insurer  Axa SA (CS) , four people with
knowledge of the talks said.  3i, based in London, hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s advisory
unit to provide counsel on an offer for Axa Private Equity, said
two of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private. 3i may make an offer this week, when first-
round bids are due, they said.  The Paris-based business, led by Dominique Senequier,
manages about $28 billion in assets for Axa and clients such as
pension and sovereign wealth funds. 3i has added new fund-
management businesses as Chief Executive Officer Michael Queen
strives to improve profitability, buying Mizuho Investment
Management U.K. Ltd. last year.  Axa,  France ’s biggest insurer, said last week that it would
examine options for the buyout business. The insurer has already
attracted interest from KKR & Co. and Caisse de Depot et
Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest pension-fund manager,
people with knowledge of the talks said last week.  Officials for 3i and Axa Private Equity declined to
comment. Spokesmen for Blackstone and Axa couldn’t immediately
comment.  Private-equity firms such as New York-based KKR and
Washington-based Carlyle Group are diversifying beyond leveraged
buyouts and increasing assets under management to ensure
steadier fee income.  Axa Private Equity holds stakes in U.S. and European buyout
funds run by firms including KKR, Blackstone and BC Partners
Ltd. It also invests directly in midsize companies and
infrastructure projects in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  