-- 
Lacker Says Fed Structure Shields Against Political Pressure

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-03T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/lacker-says-fed-structure-shields-against-political-pressure.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the views of regional chiefs like
himself and the 14-year tenures for Washington-based governors
help protect monetary policy from political intrusion.  “Attempts at intimidation should perhaps not be
surprising, given the severe economic stress facing our nation,
and the fierce partisan debate that has enveloped economic
policy,” Lacker said today in Madison, Wisconsin. “But these
are precisely the times when the governance structure that
shields the Fed from such short-term pressures is critically
important.”  Lacker is defending the central bank following criticism
last month from congressional Republicans concerned about record
easing and a senior Democratic lawmaker opposed to the policy
voice of regional presidents. Lacker has disagreed with aspects
of the record stimulus led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who is
scheduled to testify to a congressional panel tomorrow. The
Richmond Fed chief didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy
or monetary policy.  The participation of presidents and the governors’ terms
help “protect policymaking from short-run political
pressures,” Lacker said in the text of remarks at the
University of Wisconsin, where he earned a doctorate in
economics. “This hybrid public-private governance structure
builds in an ability to insulate policymaking from election-
induced swings and to make policy choices based on long-run
considerations.”  Letter to Bernanke  Lacker didn’t explicitly refer to a letter to Bernanke last
month from top Republicans including House Speaker John Boehner
of Ohio, urging the central bank to avoid further monetary
easing. Also in September, Representative  Barney Frank  of
Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the House Financial
Services Committee, renewed his push to remove regional Fed
presidents from voting on interest-rate decisions.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to push down mortgage and
other loan rates in an effort to spur growth and employment. The
Fed plans to extend maturities of the Treasuries in its
portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling
an equal amount of shorter-term securities. Lacker isn’t a
voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee this year.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher, Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Charles Plosser  of the
Philadelphia Fed voted against the FOMC decision for a second
consecutive meeting. They “did not support additional policy
accommodation at this time,” the Fed statement said.  Lacker dissented in January 2009 from the Fed’s purchases
of housing debt and said in December 2010 that he wasn’t “well
disposed” to the November decision to buy $600 billion in
Treasuries.  Lacker, 56, a former head of research at the Richmond Fed,
heads a district that is home to the biggest U.S. lender by
assets, Bank of America Corp., based in Charlotte,  North
Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Madison,  Wisconsin , at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  