-- 
Ladbrokes Says Syrian Poet Adonis Is Smart Bet for Nobel Prize

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T23:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ladbrokes-says-syrian-poet-adonis-is-smart-bet-for-nobel-literature-prize.html
Never mind  Philip Roth . This could
finally be the year Syrian poet Adonis snags the  Nobel Prize  for
Literature.  That’s the word from bet-loving Britain, where bookmaker
Ladbrokes has transformed the uppity award, which will be
announced on Oct. 6, into the cultural equivalent of the Grand
National.  It currently has France-based Adonis leading the pack at 4-
1. He happens to write in Arabic, a language markedly
underrepresented among Nobelists.  He’s followed at 6-1 by Sweden’s Tomas Transtromer, another
octogenarian poet whose name is rarely heard by English-language
readers except in this context.  In third place is Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami at 8-1.
Lest he seem too familiar a name for a prize that in the past
decade has gone to the likes of Elfriede Jelinek and Jean-Marie
Gustave Le Clezio, you might consider a flutter on  India ’s K.
Satchidanandan at 33-1 or  China ’s Bei Dao at 40-1.  So far, Les Murray and Thomas Pynchon are the strongest
English-language contenders at 16-1 and 18-1, while Cormac McCarthy, John Banville, Joyce Carol Oates, Don DeLillo and Roth
are all at 25-1, along with  Bob Dylan . Julian Barnes --
Ladbrokes’ 13-8 favorite for this year’s Man  Booker Prize  --
languishes at 100-1.  “The unpredictability is what makes it so appealing as a
betting medium -- you can back a 50-1 and have a real chance of
winning,” the bookie’s public relations officer Alex Donohue
said, speaking by telephone from  London . Indeed, odds on last
year’s winner, Mario Vargas Llosa, closed at 40-1.  Bets From Afar  That appeal extends internationally, too. Ladbrokes accepts
bets from as far afield as Africa,  Hong Kong  and  South America ,
and since it started offering odds in 2002, annual takings from
the prize have increased 400 percent to a sizeable five-figure
sum, according to Donohue.  Even for those who don’t bet, the Ladbrokes list has become
a guide to a notoriously wide field, at the same time hinting at
how the prize is perceived. Its curator is a Swede named Magnus
Puke, whose job title at Ladbrokes is Nordic Sports and Novelty
Odds Compiler, and who writes love poetry in his spare time.  Compiling odds for an artistic prize is quite different
from compiling odds for a sporting competition. The metrics that
are available often seem to count against an author where the
Swedish Academy is concerned. As Puke said of Murakami in a
telephone interview, “A lot of people would say he’s too
common.”  Watching Twitter  Puke compiles his list by working literary contacts,
hanging out in online forums and keeping an eye on Twitter. This
year, he said, the Swedish whispers have been about poetry,
which last got acknowledged as a winner’s primary metier in 1996
with Wislawa Szymborska.  The 2011 list is 77 authors long so far. In its earliest
years, it contained about 25 names. Its growth is due in part to
the public’s interest. Ladbrokes will always add writers if
someone wants to place bets on them, and sometimes they will be
retained the following year, as in the case of  Kenya ’s Ngugi wa
Thiong’o, currently at 33-1.  Not that Puke believes he has much of a chance. “The vibe
is that this is not  Africa ’s year,” he said, adding the same
caveat he applies to every Nobel-related statement: “But you
never know.”  Once betting gets under way, the money can provide its own
clues, sometimes hinting at the identity of the five finalists
the Swedish Academy selects without ever naming publicly.
Occasional leaks are inevitable, though rare, Puke said.  Nuruddin Farah  Does this explain how Herta Muller became the winner with
the lowest closing odds (3-1), despite being among the least
known in the English-language world? And if so, should we be
making anything of the fact that odds on the Somali novelist
Nuruddin Farah have more than halved already to 20-1?  There’s also the fact that the winner of the  Franz Kafka
Prize  has twice gone on to win the  Nobel  the same year, Puke
pointed out. The latest Kafka recipient is Irish novelist
Banville; will it be his name that is announced in  Stockholm ? It
seems even less likely than those 25-1 odds suggest.  Puke himself is not allowed to bet, though if he had to
pick a winner, his money would be on Adonis. “I really think
this is poetry’s year, and without a doubt, the politically
correct choice would be Adonis. I think he’s a strong favorite
in a very unpredictable market.”  Then again, you never know.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 