-- 
Aetna Teams With CVS to Sell Medicare Prescription Drug Plan

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-10-03T20:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/aetna-teams-with-cvs-to-sell-medicare-prescription-drug-plans.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S.
health insurer, and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  will offer a Medicare
prescription drug plan in the first selling season since baby
boomers began to turn 65.  Medicare recipients can sign up for the cobranded plan on
Oct. 15 in the 43 states with CVS stores. The program will cost
$26 a month, offer a $3 copayment for prescriptions of preferred
drugs and carry no deductible for generics, Aetna, based in
Hartford,  Connecticut , said today in a statement.  The partnership mirrors an alliance between  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, and Medicare managed-care
provider  Humana Inc. (HUM)  that was introduced last October. It will
compete against the Wal-Mart product selling for $15.10 a month
and Coventry Inc.’s plan with a zero co-payment for most
generics, among others with features aimed at attracting the
swelling senior population.  “Everyone will be much more aggressive this year and there
potentially could be a lot of movement between plans,” said
Dave Shove, an analyst with Bank of Montreal in New York.
Providing Medicare drugs “is a commoditized generic, over-the-
counter world now and it may be a better fit for the Wal-Marts
of the world than for the insurers.”  Turning 65  About 3.3 million  baby boomers  turning 65 this year are
signing up with the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled. Aetna had more than 430,000 members in its Medicare
drug plans at the end of the second quarter, a decrease from
608,000 at the end of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Aetna wasn’t allowed to market Medicare plans during last
year’s selling season because of a dispute over drug coverage
with the  U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , the
Baltimore-based agency that administers the two programs.
Medicaid is the U.S. health plan for low-income Americans.  The insurer fell $2.01, or 5.5 percent, to $34.33 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. CVS, based in
Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , declined 62 cents to $32.97.  Aetna’s co-branded product also will be competing against
other CVS prescription drug offerings. CVS is the  third-largest 
provider of Medicare Part D drug plans following  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest, and Humana, which is No. 2, according
to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation in  Menlo Park ,
 California . Aetna has other plans in states where CVS doesn’t
have stores.  Battling Back  “Medicare is a big priority for Aetna on many fronts
beyond the Part D plans,” John Chomeau, head of Aetna’s
Medicare operations, said in a telephone interview.  Aetna offers managed-care plans under the Medicare
Advantage program and focuses on populations like Medicare
recipients who suffer multiple chronic conditions. The drug plan
with CVS offers one-on-one counseling for participants to
discuss how to follow prescriptions and whether there is a
chance of harmful drug interactions.  For most Medicare beneficiaries, the monthly premium cost
ranks first in a choice of plan, William Fleming, vice president
of Humana’s pharmacy division, said in a telephone interview.
Next comes brand identification, the size of the co-payment and
which drugs are covered.  The plan with Humana and Wal-Mart, which offers a $1 co-pay
on most generic drugs this year, has crossed the 1 million mark
on enrollment, Fleming said.  Coventry is counting on an evaluation tool from Medicare
that compares plans to help its marketing, said Nancy Cocozza,
the Bethesda, Maryland-based company’s vice president in charge
of Medicare managed care and marketing.  Coventry entered the market with a $25 a month plan that
covers most generic prescriptions with no co-pay and a zero
deductible, the first time since Part D began in 2006 for co-
pays that low, Bank of Montreal’s Shove said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  