-- 
Agribank Dismisses Fears of Additional Capital Raising, FT Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-03T03:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/agribank-dismisses-fears-of-additional-capital-raising-ft-says.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  will
not have to conduct additional capital raising before the end of
2012, the Financial Times reported today, citing Li Zhenjiang,
board secretary at the bank.  The country’s third-largest bank expects to be able to
adjust to tighter  capital requirements  without a rights offer,
the newspaper said, citing Li.  Chinese banks including China Merchants Bank Co. are
raising capital to meet higher adequacy requirements set by the
China Banking Regulatory Commission. The agency said in April it
will raise the minimum ratio for “non-systematically important
banks” to 10.5 percent from 8 percent. Lenders’ minimum core
capital adequacy requirement was more than doubled to 8.5
percent from 4 percent.  “Li’s comments are consistent with what management has
been saying -- AgBank won’t seek a rights offer to raise
additional capital within two years from its initial public
offering,” Ding Yuan, a spokeswoman for the bank, said by phone
from Beijing today.  Agricultural Bank President Zhang Yun said on Aug. 25 the
lender has no plans for capital market fundraising, at a press
conference after posting a first-half profit gain of 45 percent.  Chinese banks’ shares tumbled last month as central bank
data showed savings were headed for the first quarterly decline
in almost 20 years. Agricultural Bank’s shares traded in  Hong
Kong  dropped 8.5 percent on Sept. 30, the most since the stock’s
debut in July last year and capping a 37 percent retreat last
quarter. The shares further declined 7.4 percent today to trade
at HK$2.39 a share as of 11:06 a.m. local time.  Deposits at Chinese banks grew 27.5 billion yuan in July
and August, 98 percent less than a year earlier, central bank
data show. Deposits haven’t fallen in a quarter since at least
1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  