-- 
AIG Cuts Chartis Jobs as CEO Seeks Rebound at Largest Unit

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-03T20:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/aig-cuts-chartis-jobs-as-benmosche-seeks-rebound-at-insurer-s-largest-unit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, is cutting jobs at property-casualty
carrier Chartis as the company seeks to improve the performance
of its largest unit.  “As part of Chartis’s review of its personnel needs, we
have resized our staffing levels to reflect our business
objectives,” said Mark Herr, a spokesman for the New York-based
insurer, in an e-mailed statement today. “We continue to hire
where we see the best potential for growth.”  The reductions amount to less than 1 percent of the staff
at Chartis, he said. The unit has about 40,000 employees,
according to its  website .  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  in March named
 Peter Hancock  to lead Chartis after it was forced to take a $4.2
billion charge because reserves were inadequate. Benmosche is
working to reverse the company’s stock slide as he seeks private
investors to buy shares acquired by the U.S. Treasury Department
through its bailout. AIG plunged 58 percent this year in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Chartis contributes more than half of AIG’s revenue after
the company sold non-U.S. life insurers, a consumer lender and a
 fund manager  to help repay its rescue. The firm is among
insurers pressured this year by natural disasters including
 Japan ’s costliest earthquake and U.S. tornadoes.  Reducing Volatility  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, has cut its
workforce as Benmosche, 67, dismantles the company that Maurice “Hank” Greenberg built with $50 billion in acquisitions in his
four decades leading the firm through 2005. The insurer had
about 63,000 workers as of Dec. 31, according to a regulatory
filings. That compares with 116,000 at the end of 2008, the year
it was rescued by the government.  Chartis’s management “continues to review its underlying
business to ensure that they meet overall performance measures,
while seeking to reduce the overall volatility of results,” AIG
said in August in its second-quarter filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Herr declined to comment on where the job cuts occurred at
Chartis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  