-- 
Thailand’s Inflation Eases to Six-Month Low as Falling Fuel Counters Flood

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-03T08:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/thailand-s-september-consumer-prices-rise-4-03-from-year-ago.html
Thailand ’s inflation eased to a 6-
month low in September as fuel prices slid, countering an
increase in food costs after the worst floods in at least 50
years damaged crops.  An index of consumer prices climbed 4.03 percent from a
year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi
province outside Bangkok today, compared with a 4.29 percent
pace in August. The median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 3.95 percent gain.  Slower inflation gives the Bank of Thailand more room to
pause after six  interest-rate  increases this year and join
neighbors from  Indonesia  to  Malaysia  in shielding growth from a
faltering global recovery. The central bank may cut projections
for economic expansion and inflation expectations aren’t likely
to rise, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Sept. 24.  “Rising vegetable prices from the floods were countered by
falling oil prices, which have more weight in the inflation
basket,” Pornthep Jubandhu, an economist at Siam Commercial
Bank Pcl in Bangkok, said before the release. “The governor has
also signaled a higher possibility of a rate pause this month.”  The benchmark SET Index of stocks slumped 4.9 percent as of
3:04 p.m. local time amid a tumble in Asian stocks, while the
baht weakened 0.5 percent to 31.3 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Flood Toll  “I expect the central bank to keep its key interest rate
unchanged at the next policy meeting,” Yanyong Phuangrach, the
permanent secretary for commerce, said at a briefing today.
Flooding won’t have a significant impact on inflation through
crop damage since vegetables account for just 1.4 percent of the
consumer-price index’s goods basket, he said.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel prices,
accelerated to 2.92 percent. The central bank uses core
inflation to guide monetary policy and aims to keep it at less
than 3 percent. The median of 12 estimates in another Bloomberg
News survey was for a core reading of 2.9 percent.  The death toll from flooding in Thailand over the past two
months rose to 212, and 25 provinces remain submerged, the
Department of Disaster Prevention & Mitigation said on its
website today. Heavy rain since July 25 has caused inundations
in 58 of the country’s 77 provinces, it said.  “This flooding is the worst in at least 50-60 years,”
Commerce Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last month.  Impact on Prices  Price pressures from flooding are expected to be short term
and the Bank of Thailand won’t take temporary factors into
account for monetary policy, Mathee Supapongse, a director of
the central bank, said Sept. 30.  Thai retail fuel prices dropped as much as 16 percent in
September from late August on government measures and a fall in
crude oil costs, Energy Policy and Planning Office data show.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration on Aug.
27 reduced diesel and gasoline tariffs by ending contributions
to the national oil fund, which were funded by levies on fuels.  Yingluck, whose Pheu Thai party won the July 3 general
election, has also pledged to boost the daily  minimum wage  to
300 baht ($9.6), almost double the current level in some parts
of the country, and buy rice from farmers above market rates.  The Bank of Thailand raised its key rate in nine steps to
3.5 percent by Aug. 24 from 1.25 percent at the start of July
2010. It next meets to decide borrowing costs on Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  