-- 
Airlines Mired in ‘Crisis’ as Margins Shrink

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/airlines-mired-in-crisis-as-margins-shrink-iata-chief-says.html
Airline profits forecast to total $28
billion in the three years through 2012 may be unsustainable as
over-capacity and looming regulatory costs weigh on margins, the
head of the IATA industry association said.  Airlines will generate net income equal to 0.8 percent of
revenue next year, a margin that may shrink further if economic
growth slows to less than 2.4 percent,  Tony Tyler , chief
executive officer of the  International Air Transport Association 
since July 1, said in an interview in London.  “The natural condition of the  airline industry  is
crisis,” Tyler said. “Occasionally, we’ve had short periods
where the conditions are quite benign and everything goes quite
well, and the danger is to believe that’s normal -- and that’s
wrong.”  IATA’s forecast that airline earnings will drop almost 30
percent next year to $4.9 billion may prove to be too optimistic
should the global economy slow further, said Tyler, who was CEO
at  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s No. 1 international
carrier, for almost four years. The industry has lost money in
seven of the past 10 years, even as global sales doubled to
almost $550 billion.  “We’re assuming world economic growth will be just
marginally down for next year,” Tyler said in the interview in
London. “If we’re wrong with that then all bets are off.”  AMR Slumps  American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  yesterday tumbled the
most since 2003, triggering automatic trading halts, on growing
concern the third-largest U.S. carrier may be forced to seek
 bankruptcy protection .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest airline, last month scrapped its full-year profit
forecast after August’s results were worse than expected.  Figures released yesterday show growth in  passenger traffic 
at IATA’s 230 member airlines slowed to an average 4.5 percent
in August from 6 percent in July, including a 0.3 percent slump
in U.S. domestic travel. Cargo demand, which is usually tracked
by the passenger market, dropped 3.8 percent in the month versus
a year earlier, more than double the pace of July’s slide.  “We are in a time now of declining profitability,” Tyler
said. “The latest traffic figures would reinforce this and
possibly point to risks, if anything, being on the downside.”  The industry’s precarious position is illustrated by the
predicted margin of just 1.2 percent this year, even after seat
occupancy reached 81 percent in August and premium traffic rose
8.2 percent over the first seven months, allowing many carriers
to raise fares, the CEO said.  Carbon Costs  In addition to the global slowdown, airline profitability
is being further jeopardized by the European Union’s plans to
include aviation in the world’s largest cap-and-trade system for
carbon dioxide emissions, Tyler said.  The plan, due to be implemented in January, is
“misguided” because it’s not global and creates market
distortions while infringing national sovereignty, Tyler said,
citing opposition from countries including the U.S.,  China  and
 India .  Program costs will amount to about $1.2 billion next year,
IATA reckons, while estimates of the bill for the first decade
of implementation range from $26 billion to as much as $85
billion -- more than double the $36 billion in net income from
the industry’s three profitable years in the past decade.  “Airlines will try to recover it,” the executive said.
“But it’s naive to think they will.”  While the industry itself needs to do more to eliminate
excess capacity and regain control of yields, a measure of
revenue per passenger that has been shrinking for decades,
national sensitivities about the importance of flag-carrier
airlines remain an obstacle to mergers, Tyler said.  Capacity Conundrum  “It would be a good thing for the financial health of the
industry to have a more consolidated, less fragmented industry,
but the big question is will it happen?” he said. “I’m
skeptical. I think it will be a long and very slow process.”  Carriers also struggle to limit seat supply when markets
begin to pick up, as they did earlier this year, Tyler said.  “We do better as an industry when there’s capacity
constraint,” he said. “But it’s only when the whole market
really tanks that everybody says ‘Ok, I give up.’”  U.S. airlines have shown most restraint, partly because the
industry there has been consolidating and also because of its
“terrible financial straits.” Often, the concern of missing
out on a rebound overrides other concerns, Tyler said.  “The difficulty when you’re running an airline is that
you’re worried all the time that if you cut, the other guy
won’t,” he said. “Airline managers are actually rational, but
added together the effect is that they look irrational.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  