-- 
Half of China Commercial Developers May Be Closed, Haitong Says

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T03:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/half-of-china-commercial-developers-may-be-closed-haitong-says.html
About half of  China ’s commercial real
estate companies may be forced to stop operating in the next
three to five years as the government tightens housing-market
policies, according to Yifan Hu, Haitong International Research
Ltd.’s head of research and chief economist.  There are about 20,000 businesses in the industry, Hu said
in a Sept. 30 interview from  Hong Kong . The Chinese government
said in July that it will rein in residential prices in smaller
cities after it raised down-payment requirements and mortgage
rates earlier this year. Hu recommends buying shares of
companies tied to the public-housing industry, such as cement
producers, as policy makers focus on building affordable homes.  “The government will continue tightening housing policy,”
said Hu. “They’re very concerned about the impact on slowing
economic growth, so part of the solution will be to increase the
supply and provide public housing.”  Property companies plunged last month amid concern that
sales will weaken.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s
second-biggest developer by sales, and  Agile Property Holdings
Ltd. (3383) , which builds apartments and hotels, fell more than 49
percent in September. Property transactions in September dropped
13 percent from August, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.,
China’s biggest real-estate website that tracks 20 cities.  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
funding sources as sales weaken, Standard & Poor’s said on Sept.
27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 