-- 
SEC Scrutinizes Algorithmic Traders

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-03T17:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/algorithmic-traders-under-scrutiny-from-sec-s-hedge-fund-police.html
Algorithmic traders and quant funds
are under close scrutiny from a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission enforcement team responsible for policing hedge
funds, the unit’s co-chief said at securities law forum.  The SEC is “very much focused” on possible misconduct by
traders who primarily use computer models to execute investment
strategies, and more cases in those areas are likely, Bruce Karpati said today during a Practising Law Institute panel
discussion in  New York . Investigators are zeroing in on firms
with “aberrational performance,” he said, without giving
details on practices that are under scrutiny.  The February case in which Karpati’s asset-management team
accused Axa Rosenberg Group LLC of causing $217 million in
customer losses by concealing a coding error was “wake-up a
call for all quant managers” to be fully forthcoming about the
risks of their strategies, he said at the time. Axa paid $242
million to resolve the claims.  In his remarks today, Karpati said his team is also looking
at how hedge funds value illiquid assets and whether some
investment managers have used so-called side pockets to hide
underperforming assets. Side pockets are accounts used by  hedge
funds  to separate less-liquid investments from others.  The SEC will likely bring more cases against hedge funds
that engaged in preferential redemption, where the owners of the
firm or selected investors are able to liquidate their
investments before other clients, Karpati said.  The agency is using powers granted by the Dodd-Frank Act to
bring enforcement actions against unregulated entities and seek
expanded sanctions in administrative cases, he said.  More cases will probably be brought as administrative
proceedings, which are heard by judges at the SEC, instead of
pursuing claims in federal court, Karpati said. The agency may
pursue more claims against people who have been negligently
responsible for misconduct, to capture a wider range of actors
than those who knowingly participated in a fraud, he said.  “This is really the result of getting enhanced authority
to pursue wrongdoing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  