-- 
Alibaba Group Turns From Yahoo Takeover Target to Predator on China Gains

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-10-03T03:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/alibaba-group-turns-to-potential-takeover-bidder-from-investment-for-yahoo.html
Six years after Yahoo! Inc. paid more
than $1 billion to become the biggest investor in Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., it’s now a potential takeover target for the
Chinese  Internet company .  “We are very interested in Yahoo,” Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma said at a Stanford University event near  Palo Alto ,
 California , on Sept. 30. Talks have snagged over “political
issues,” rather than financial ones, he said.  Yahoo, which fired Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  last
month, owns 40 percent of Alibaba and a deal would give Ma more
control over the Hangzhou-based e-commerce company he founded 12
years ago. Since Yahoo bought the stake, it’s been eclipsed by
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  as a U.S. search engine, while China’s Internet
users have risen fivefold to almost 500 million.  “Jack has a strong desire and motivation to take over
Yahoo to regain control of Alibaba’s destiny,” said  Duncan Clark , chairman of telecommunications consulting firm BDA China.
“Yahoo at the moment is rudderless in the wake of the ousting
of Carol Bartz, and years of declining market share.”  Ma’s existing relationship with Yahoo may give him an
advantage in putting a deal together, Clark, who hosted the
Stanford Graduate School of Business event where Ma spoke, said
in an e-mail. The alternative would be to watch Yahoo “slide
into irrelevance,” he said.  Reviewing strategic options  Yahoo is reviewing strategy and seeking a new CEO after
ousting Bartz, who failed to reverse a growth slowdown or repel
competition from Google and Facebook Inc. The process for
reviewing strategic options is likely to take “months, not
weeks,” according to the memo, which was signed by co-founders
 Jerry Yang  and David Filo and Chairman Roy Bostock.  As of mid-September, private-equity investor Silver Lake
was considering a bid for Yahoo, people involved in the
deliberations said at the time. As part of a deal, Silver Lake
would sell off Yahoo’s Asian assets and then attempt to turn
around the main operations or find a buyer for that business,
the people said. Representatives from Silver Lake have
approached other companies to gauge interest in purchasing
Yahoo’s main business, one person said.  Alibaba, also part-owned by  Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  and
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte, is expanding in search-engine
services after dominating China’s e-commerce market. In 2009,
Its Hong Kong-listed  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  unit acquired two U.S.
companies to step up international expansion.  “We are very interested in Yahoo because our Alibaba Group
is so important to Yahoo, and Yahoo is also very important to
us,” Ma said, when asked if he would buy the company. “There
are so many people who are interested in that, and we are also
talking to them.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment.  Yahoo rose as much as 76 cents, or 5.8 percent, in late
trading on Sept. 30. Before the remarks, the shares had fallen
25 cents to $13.17 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock is down
21 percent this year, giving the company a market value of $16.6
billion.  A share sale last month to investors including DST Global,
 Silver Lake  and Temasek valued closely held Alibaba at $32
billion, two people with knowledge of the deal said then.  In 2005, Alibaba Group sold a stake of about 40 percent to
Yahoo for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese unit.
Closely-held Alibaba Group now operates e-commerce businesses
including Alibaba.com and Taobao.com, in addition to Yahoo’s
local website.  Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba is worth $11.45 a share, according
to estimates by Thornburg Investment Management in August.  Yahoo in ‘Limbo’  “Anyone who buys Yahoo would have to deal with the 40
percent stake in Alibaba Group, and that adds to uncertainty to
Jack’s own role in the group” Li Muzhi, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities in  Hong Kong . “With Yahoo in the ‘limbo’ state, he
feels safe.”  Yahoo’s shareholders would be hard pressed to find a more
credible buyer than Alibaba, according to Clark.  Financial investors have a tendency to hire “miracle
worker” CEOs to fix the companies they buy, only to fire them a
few months or years down the way if they fail to live up to
expectations, as seen at Yahoo and Hewett-Packard Co., Clark
said.  “Despite the obvious cultural hurdles, to some extent, it
would be hard for Alibaba to do a worse job than previous
management at running Yahoo which had been reduced from a
pioneering company to a follower,” Clark said.  China  Talent Pool  Alibaba has access to China’s engineering resources and
talent pool, he said. Buying Yahoo would give Alibaba access to
consumers in the U.S., where it already made two acquisitions in
the business-to-business services field, Clark said.  Ma said he’s interested in all of Yahoo and that
discussions are proving thornier than he initially expected.  While it’s hard to see how the congressional Committee on
Foreign Investment in the U.S. could credibly block Alibaba’s
purchase of an “iconic” company, “anything is possible” as
the U.S. enters an election year, Clark said.  When Yang was CEO in 2008, before Bartz was hired, Yahoo
spurned a $47.5 billion offer by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The two
companies later struck an agreement to outsource Yahoo’s search
technology to Microsoft, diminishing the chance of a takeover.  Alipay Dispute  Alibaba reached an agreement in July with Yahoo, following
a four-month dispute initiated after Alibaba transferred Alipay
-- China’s most popular online-payment service -- to a Chinese
company controlled by Ma. Under the accord, Alibaba will get at
least $2 billion in the case of an initial public offering or
“other liquidity event” at Alipay.  Ma’s role in the Alipay dispute may make it more difficult
for his company to acquire Yahoo, said  Laura Martin , an analyst
at Needham & Co. in  Los Angeles .  “Jack Ma has damaged his credibility in American capital
markets by his transfer of Alipay,” said Martin, who has a
“buy” rating on shares of Yahoo and doesn’t own the stock.
“With him, I’d get the cash at closing. You never know what
you’re going to end up with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  