-- 
Knox Denies ’07 Killing as Jury Prepares Verdict

-- B y   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-03T15:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/amanda-knox-denies-2007-killing-as-jury-prepares-verdict-2-.html
Amanda Knox, a 24-year-old American
jailed in  Italy  for the 2007 murder of Meredith Kercher, told an
appeals court deciding her fate today that she didn’t kill her
British housemate, a friend with whom she’d “shared” her life.  Knox, who broke down in tears as she left the packed 14th-
century courtroom in Perugia, asked the jury to free her and
said she’d been “manipulated” by Italian police to confess and
“betrayed” by the nation’s justice system. The jury, which has
begun deliberations, won’t announce its ruling before 8 p.m.  “The perversion, the violence and the disrespect for life
and for people, that’s not me, I didn’t do the things they said
I did,” Knox said, speaking in Italian. “I didn’t kill, I
didn’t rape, I didn’t rob, I wasn’t there.” Knox said she’s
“paying with my life for things I didn’t do.”  An exchange student in Perugia at the time of Kercher’s
murder in November 2007, Knox and her Italian boyfriend,
Raffaele Sollecito, 27, were convicted of the killing in
December 2009 and sentenced to 26 years and 25 years in prison,
respectively. Both defendants were jailed shortly after the
crime and denied bail. If the verdict is upheld today, they will
have one final chance to appeal to Italy’s highest court.  Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, was also found
guilty of the murder in a separate “fast-track” trial in 2008
and sentenced to 30 years. Guede, 24, had his sentence reduced
to 16 years in a 2009 appeal.  Never Met Guede  Both Knox and Sollecito said in comments to the court today
that they had never met Guede, who admitted to being in the
house on the night of the killing and said he scuffled with an
unidentified Italian there whom he blamed for the murder.  The original trial garnered global media attention and
divided opinion along national lines, with U.S. newspapers
including the New York Times arguing for acquittal and U.K.
dailies portraying Knox as a seductive temptress with a violent
streak. Italian newspapers covered everything from love letters
Knox received from supporters to the outfits she wore in court.  The appeals trial also saw a wave of foreign media
descending on Perugia, a town of 170,000 in central Italy,
including local television stations from Knox’s hometown of
 Seattle . More than 400 journalists were accredited to cover the
trial, a court official said, and many were forced to stand
during the proceedings in the packed courtroom. Tonight’s ruling
will be broadcast live by television networks around the world.  ‘Dishonored Name’  “This story has helped us sell newspapers, but it’s
dishonored our name,” said Rosella Gazzella, who owns a
newsstand near the courthouse. “I’m scared that they’ll be
acquitted.”  Curt Knox, Amanda’s father, on Sept. 28 denied to Sky TG24
television that a U.S. media company had a private jet standing
by to fly his daughter out of Italy and pay her for an exclusive
interview if the conviction was overturned.  In arguments to the appeals court, Sollecito’s attorney
Giulia Bongiorno, a member of the Italian parliament, compared
Knox to Jessica Rabbit, saying the American had been unfairly
portrayed in the media as a savvy, sex-obsessed manipulator.
Like the cartoon-film character, Knox “isn’t bad, she’s just
drawn that way,” Bongiorno said. The case is being heard by a
jury composed of six private citizens and two judges.  Meredith ‘Forgotten’  Kercher family members said at a press conference in
Perugia today that they believed in the original verdict and
that the media focus on Amanda Knox had left the victim of the
crime forgotten.  “Meredith has been completely forgotten in all of this,”
Stephanie Kercher, Meredith’s sister, said. “It’s nearly four
years now and the focus has shifted for obvious reasons onto the
proceedings in the court at the moment. It’s very difficult to
try keep her memory alive in all of this. That’s why the trial
is going on so we can find truth and we can find justice for
her.”  Kercher, a 21-year-old U.K. citizen, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007, at the house she shared with Knox and two other
women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini told the court that Knox had
masterminded a drug-fueled sex game involving Sollecito and
Guede that turned violent, leading to Kercher’s murder.  Evidence Challenged  During the appeals trial for Knox and Sollecito, court-
commissioned experts cast doubt on techniques police used to
collect DNA evidence linking the two to the murder. A former
cellmate of Guede also testified that he said Knox and Sollecito
had nothing to do with the crime, Italian newspapers reported.  Prosecutor Manuela Comodi in a Sept. 24 closing statement
denied that the experts’ findings had weakened the case and
argued that Knox and Sollecito’s sentences should be extended to
life terms.  “Even setting aside the scientific evidence, the outcome
of this case cannot be anything less” than the confirmation of
the sentences, she said. Comodi also told news agency Ansa that,
in case of an acquittal, the prosecution would appeal. In Italy,
both prosecutors and defendants can appeal verdicts.  Knox, who told police she discovered her housemate’s body,
at first claimed she was in the villa at the time of the killing
and that screaming from Kercher’s room alerted her to the crime
scene, according to her lawyer Carlo Dalla Vedova. Knox later
altered her story. Her lawyer said that her original account had
been coerced by the police.  Falsely Accused  “If I had been there that night, I would be dead like
her,” Knox told the court today. “Only I wasn’t there, I was
at Raffaele’s.”  Knox also initially named the owner of a bar where she had
worked as the possible killer. The man, Patrick Diya Lumumba,
was arrested and later released after a witness confirmed his
alibi. A lawyer for Lumumba told the court Sept. 26 that Knox
was a “she-devil.” Lumumba sued her for damages.  Mignini warned that if Knox was let off on appeal she would
flee the country before prosecutors could challenge the court’s
decisions. The prosecutor defended the handling of the evidence
and urged the jury not to be swayed by the press coverage.  “It’s up to you to save the honor of this sovereign
country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerrold Colten in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Perugia at  cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 