-- 
Amanda Knox May Leave Italy Today After 2007 Murder Conviction Overturned

-- B y   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-04T07:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/amanda-knox-may-leave-italy-today.html
Amanda Knox was set to return to the
U.S. today after an Italian appeals court acquitted the 24-year-
old American of the 2007 murder of her British housemate,
Meredith Kercher.  Judge Claudio Pratillo Hellman ruled that the  Seattle 
native be freed immediately after a jury in Perugia,  Italy ,
found Knox and her Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito,
innocent in the killing of Kercher. The ruling overturned murder
convictions for the pair in 2009. The prosecution may still
appeal to Italy’s highest court.  After the ruling was read out in Perugia’s 14th-century
courthouse, Knox broke into tears and hugged her lawyer while
cheering family members embraced behind her. Crowds gathered
outside the courthouse shouted “shame, shame” after the
announcement.  In a final statement yesterday, Knox, a former exchange
student in the city, had declared her innocence and said, “I
want to go home.” Knox was due to fly to the U.S. on a flight
departing  Rome  this morning, la Repubblica newspaper said on its
website.  “Amanda’s nightmare is over,” her sister, Deanna Knox,
said in a statement to reporters after the ruling. “She has
suffered for four years for a crime she didn’t commit” and “we
are thankful to this court for having the courage to overturn
this conviction.”  Convictions  Knox and Sollecito, 27, were convicted of the killing in
December 2009 and sentenced to 26 years and 25 years in prison
respectively. Both were jailed shortly after the crime and
denied bail.  Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, was also found
guilty of the murder in a separate “fast-track” trial in 2008
and sentenced to 30 years. Guede, 24, had his sentence reduced
to 16 years in a 2009 appeal.  “I felt there would be an acquittal because there was no
proof,” said Claudio Maccheroni, 34, a mechanic in Perugia.
“But it’s too hard to imagine that Guede did everything by
himself.”  Kercher, a 21-year-old student, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007, at the house she shared with Knox and two other
women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the original trial
that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled sex game involving
Sollecito and Guede that turned violent, leading to the murder.  ‘Paying With My Life’  “The perversion, the violence and the disrespect for life
and for people, that’s not me, I didn’t do the things they said
I did,” Knox said in her statement yesterday, speaking in
Italian. “I didn’t kill, I didn’t rape, I didn’t rob, I wasn’t
there.” Knox said she had been “paying with my life for things
I didn’t do.”  More than a dozen of Knox’s friends and family members
packed a hotel suite in downtown Seattle to watch the verdict.
The supporters clapped, cheered and embraced after the verdict
was read. Neumos, a Seattle bar, offered a 50 percent-off happy
hour to celebrate the ruling.  “I’m delighted, elated, relieved, very, very happy,” said
family friend Karen Pruett, 55.  U.S. Reaction  The State Department also weighed in, saying the U.S.
“appreciates the careful consideration of this matter within
the Italian judicial system,” according to a statement by
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  The original trial garnered global media attention and
divided opinion along national lines, with U.S. newspapers
including the New York Times arguing for acquittal and U.K.
dailies portraying Knox as a seductive temptress with a violent
streak. Italian newspapers covered everything from love letters
Knox received from supporters to the outfits she wore in court.  The appeals trial also saw a wave of foreign media descend
on Perugia, a town of 170,000 in central Italy, including local
television stations from Knox’s hometown of Seattle. More than
400 journalists were accredited to cover the trial, a court
official said, and many were forced to stand during the
proceedings in the packed courtroom. The verdict was broadcast
live by television networks around the world.  In arguments to the appeals court, Sollecito’s attorney
Giulia Bongiorno, a member of the Italian parliament, compared
Knox to Jessica Rabbit, saying the American had been unfairly
portrayed in the media as a savvy, sex-obsessed manipulator.
Like the cartoon-film character, Knox “isn’t bad, she’s just
drawn that way,” Bongiorno said.  The Kercher family was perplexed by the verdict,  Sky News 
reported, citing a statement. The family is due to give a press
conference in Perugia at 10 a.m.  Meredith ‘Forgotten’  “Meredith has been completely forgotten in all of this,”
Stephanie Kercher, Meredith’s sister, said at a press conference
yesterday before the verdict. “It’s nearly four years now and
the focus has shifted for obvious reasons onto the proceedings
in the court at the moment. It’s very difficult to try keep her
memory alive in all of this.”  During the appeals trial, court-commissioned experts cast
doubt on techniques police used to collect DNA evidence linking
the two to the murder. A former cellmate of Guede also testified
that he said Knox and Sollecito had nothing to do with the
crime, Italian newspapers reported.  Prosecutor Manuela Comodi in a Sept. 24 closing statement
denied that the experts’ findings had weakened the case and
argued that Knox and Sollecito’s sentences should be extended to
life terms.  Initial Story  Knox was convicted after first telling police she was at
the villa at the time of the killing and she heard screaming
from Kercher’s room. Knox also initially named the owner of a
bar where she had worked as the possible killer. The man,
Patrick Diya Lumumba, was arrested and later released after a
witness confirmed his alibi. A lawyer for Lumumba told the court
Sept. 26 that Knox was a “she-devil.” Lumumba sued her for
damages. The appeals court yesterday upheld her three-year
conviction for slandering Lumumba, which she has already served.  Knox later altered her story. Her lawyer said her original
account had been coerced by the police.  “If I had been there that night, I would be dead like
her,” Knox told the court yesterday. “Only I wasn’t there, I
was at Raffaele’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerrold Colten in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 