-- 
Amanda Knox Cleared by Italian Appeals Court

-- B y   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-03T21:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/amanda-knox-cleared-by-italian-appeals-court-in-2007-kercher-murder-case.html
Amanda Knox, a 24-year-old American,
was acquitted by an Italian appeals court for the 2007 murder of
her British housemate, Meredith Kercher, ending four years of
imprisonment.  A jury of six private citizens and two judges found Knox
and her Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, innocent in the
killing of Kercher. The ruling in Perugia,  Italy , tonight
overturned murder convictions for the pair in 2009. Under
Italian law, the prosecution may still appeal the ruling to
Italy’s highest criminal court.  Knox broke into tears when the ruling was announced in the
packed 14th-century courthouse. In a final statement earlier
today, Knox, a student in Perugia at the time of the killing,
had declared her innocence and said, “I want to go home.”
Crowds gathered outside the courthouse shouted “shame, shame”
after the verdict was announced.  “We are thankful that Amanda’s nightmare is over,” her
sister, Deanna Knox said in a statement to reporters after the
ruling. “She has suffered for four years for a crime she didn’t
commit” and “we are thankful to this court for having the
courage to overturn this conviction.”  Departing Italy  Knox will depart for the U.S. “as soon as possible,”
Carlo Dalla Vedova, one of her lawyers, said after the ruling,
Ansa newswire reported. “Amanda loves Italy” but “now she
wants to go home.”  The Kercher family said it “respects but doesn’t
understand” today’s ruling, Ansa newswire reported.  Knox, an exchange student in Perugia at the time of
Kercher’s murder in 2007, and Sollecito, 27, were convicted of
the killing in December 2009 and sentenced to 26 years and 25
years in prison respectively. Both were jailed shortly after the
crime and denied bail.  Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, was also found
guilty of the murder in a separate “fast-track” trial in 2008
and sentenced to 30 years. Guede, 24, had his sentence reduced
to 16 years in a 2009 appeal.  “I felt there would be an acquittal because there was no
proof,” said Claudio Maccheroni, 34, a mechanic Perugia. “But
it’s too hard to imagine that Guede did everything by himself.”  Sex Game  Kercher, a 21-year-old student, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007, at the house she shared with Knox and two other
women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the original murder
trial that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled sex game
involving Sollecito and Guede that turned violent, leading to
the murder.  “The perversion, the violence and the disrespect for life
and for people, that’s not me, I didn’t do the things they said
I did,” Knox said in her statement today, speaking in Italian.
“I didn’t kill, I didn’t rape, I didn’t rob, I wasn’t there.”
Knox said she had been “paying with my life for things I didn’t
do.”  Both Knox and Sollecito said in comments to the court today
that they had never met Guede, who admitted to being in the
house on the night of the killing and said he scuffled with an
unidentified Italian there whom he blamed for the murder.  Media Coverage  The original trial garnered global media attention and
divided opinion along national lines, with U.S. newspapers
including the New York Times arguing for acquittal and U.K.
dailies portraying Knox as a seductive temptress with a violent
streak. Italian newspapers covered everything from love letters
Knox received from supporters to the outfits she wore in court.  The appeals trial also saw a wave of foreign media descend
on Perugia, a town of 170,000 in central Italy, including local
television stations from Knox’s hometown of  Seattle . More than
400 journalists were accredited to cover the trial, a court
official said, and many were forced to stand during the
proceedings in the packed courtroom.  In arguments to the appeals court, Sollecito’s attorney
Giulia Bongiorno, a member of the Italian parliament, compared
Knox to Jessica Rabbit, saying the American had been unfairly
portrayed in the media as a savvy, sex-obsessed manipulator.
Like the cartoon-film character, Knox “isn’t bad, she’s just
drawn that way,” Bongiorno said.  ‘Completely Forgotten’  Kercher family members said at a press conference in
Perugia earlier today that they believed in the original verdict
and that the media focus on Amanda Knox had left the victim of
the crime forgotten.  “Meredith has been completely forgotten in all of this,”
Stephanie Kercher, Meredith’s sister, said. “It’s nearly four
years now and the focus has shifted for obvious reasons onto the
proceedings in the court at the moment. It’s very difficult to
try keep her memory alive in all of this.”  During the appeals trial, court-commissioned experts cast
doubt on techniques police used to collect DNA evidence linking
the two to the murder. A former cellmate of Guede also testified
that he said Knox and Sollecito had nothing to do with the crime,
Italian newspapers reported.  Prosecutor Manuela Comodi in a Sept. 24 closing statement
denied that the experts’ findings had weakened the case and
argued that Knox and Sollecito’s sentences should be extended to
life terms. Mignini warned that if Knox was let off on appeal
she would flee the country before prosecutors could challenge
the ruling.  ‘No Winner’  “There is no winner in this ruling,” Knox’s lawyer, Carlo
Dalla Vedova said in an interview broadcast on BBC News after
today’s decision. “This was a terrible tragedy, Meredith was a
friend of Amanda and we must never forget this.”  Knox at first told police she was the villa at the time of
the killing and that screaming from Kercher’s room alerted her
to the crime scene. Knox also initially named the owner of a bar
where she had worked as the possible killer. The man, Patrick
Diya Lumumba, was arrested and later released after a witness
confirmed his alibi. A lawyer for Lumumba told the court Sept.
26 that Knox was a “she-devil.” Lumumba sued her for damages.
The appeals court upheld her conviction for slandering Lumumba.  Knox later retracted her statement, saying she spent the
night with Sollecito. Her lawyer said her original account had
been coerced by the police.  “If I had been there that night, I would be dead like
her,” Knox told the court today. “Only I wasn’t there, I was
at Raffaele’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerrold Colten in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 