-- 
Amedisys, LHC, Gentiva Fall as Report Finds Medicare Abuse

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-03T16:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/amedisys-lhc-gentiva-fall-on-senate-report-of-medicare-abuse.html
Amedisys Inc. (AMED) ,  LHC Group Inc. (LHCG)  and
 Gentiva Health Services Inc. (GTIV)  fell more than 5 percent in Nasdaq
trading after a U.S. inquiry found the home-care providers made
added visits to Medicare patients to trigger federal bonuses.  A Senate Finance Committee report released today alleges
that companies encouraged employees to make enough home-therapy
visits to reach thresholds for bonuses, no matter whether the
sessions were medically necessary, from the federal program for
the elderly and disabled.  The panel, after saying in May it was reviewing whether the
largest home-therapy providers manipulated visits,  called  today
for changes in government payment policy. Medicare has paid
companies a bonus since 1997 for providing patients multiple
therapy sessions in an effort to discourage inadequate care.  “The longer this kind of policy continues, the more
Medicare’s budget balloons, and the bigger the burden on
taxpayers,” said Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , who was the
committee’s senior Republican when the inquiry began last year.  The report highlights behavior by executives of  Baton
Rouge , Louisiana-based Amedisys, LHC of Lafayette,  Louisiana ,
and Gentiva of Atlanta, who are alleged to have encouraged
unnecessary therapy. The panel said no documents provided by a
fourth company investigated, Almost Family Inc. of Louisville,
 Kentucky , indicated any similar behavior by the provider.  LHC Group slid $1.06, or 6.2 percent, to $16 at 12:12 p.m.
on the Nasdaq Stock Market, while Amedisys fell 92 cents, or 6.2
percent, to $13.90, Almost Family tumbled $1.30, or 7.8 percent,
to $15.33 and Gentiva dropped $1.03, or 19 percent, to $4.49,
its lowest since Feb. 1, 2001.  Elderly ‘Pawns’  The committee’s recommendations aren’t binding. Medicare
pays for home care in 60-day increments when prescribed and
doesn’t limit the number of visits. The U.S. Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services has proposed reducing payments
for higher amounts of therapy next year while paying companies
more for patients that receive little or no therapy, the Finance
Committee said.  “Elderly patients in the Medicare system should not be used
as pawns to increase a company’s profits,” the committee’s
chairman, Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said in a
statement.  The bonus -- almost double the normal payment -- was
initially triggered at 10 therapy visits. A 2006 PowerPoint
presentation included in the report the committee obtained from
Amedisys encouraged the company’s managers to “look for
patients that have seven, eight, nine visits and try to get the
10 visits to make therapy threshold.”  Treatment Patterns Altered  In 2008, after noticing that many patients tended to have
about 10 therapy sessions, regardless of need, the government
changed its payment structure to award smaller bonuses at
different stages of treatment -- six, 14 and 20 visits.  “Home health agencies rapidly altered their treatment
patterns to match the new system,” the committee’s report said.
The number of patients receiving 10 to 13 visits dropped about
28 percent. The number receiving between six and nine visits, or
14 or more, increased.  After the payment change, Amedisys’ directors formed a
committee called the “A-Team” to “develop strategic clinical
programs and cost-cutting/efficiency measures” to adapt,
according to minutes of a July 24 board meeting held in Los
Cabos,  Mexico , that the panel obtained.  Amedisys managers pressured therapists to adjust their
visits to meet the new incentive pattern, e-mails obtained by
the committee show.  Patient-Care Practices  “We need to work immediately to adjust our ‘10 therapy
threshold’ mindset,” one manager in  Florida , Dan Cundiff, wrote
his staff on Feb. 27, 2008. “I would rather be profitable than
have a low visits/episode.”  Amedisys said in a statement issued today that it
cooperated with the investigation and did nothing wrong.  “We are disappointed with the committee’s conclusions, and
we stand by our company’s integrity, ethics, and patient-care
practices,” Amedisys said.  Gentiva established a system to measure the performance of
its therapists, and regional branches were encouraged to compete
against each other for bonuses.  The push to link therapy visits to bonus thresholds instead
of patient need “is just wrong,” one departing therapist wrote
the company’s chief executive officer, Tony Strange, in May
2010.  Added Therapy  At LHC, an executive sent an e-mail on April 2, 2008,
telling therapists to “look at increasing the number of therapy
visits if warranted to move these patients into the higher
therapy buckets.” The executive, Angie Begnaud, said that at
the time, 47 percent of patients were receiving fewer than five
therapy sessions.  “This cannot continue to happen,” she wrote.  A Gentiva spokesman, Scott Cianciulli, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking a response to the committee’s
report. Steve Guenthner, a spokesman for Almost Family, didn’t
immediately return a phone message.  LHC Group settled on Sept. 30 a “civil inquiry” by the
government into its Medicare billings between 2006 and 2008. The
company said in a statement it paid $65 million in the
settlement and admitted no wrongdoing. An LHC spokeswoman, Casey
Stavropoulos, didn’t immediately return a phone message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 Awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 Abettelheim@bloomberg.net  