-- 
American Tower Sells $500 Million of Debt as Acquisitions Rise

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-10-03T19:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/american-tower-plans-benchmark-bond-sale-as-acquisitions-climb.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the company
that leases wireless communications tower space to customers
including AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp., sold $500 million
of debt to finance acquisitions from  South America  to  Africa .  The company issued 5.9 percent, 10-year debt to yield 412.5
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds may finance property
interests in 1,800 U.S. communications sites, towers under an
agreement with Colombia Movil SA and takeovers in the U.S.,
 Latin America  and Africa, Boston-based American Tower said today
in a regulatory filing.  American Tower, which spent about $893 million on
acquisitions in the first half of the year after $900 million in
2010, is planning to convert into a real estate investment trust
in 2012 to cut taxes and initiate dividends to investors. The
company’s ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will remain between 3 times and 5
times, Chief Executive Officer Jim Taiclet said on Sept. 20.  “We’re using the REIT conversion to establish American
Tower as a growth-plus-yield company,” Taiclet said at a
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference.  It’s “an opportunity to
introduce the dividend as well as get the tax benefits of doing
this.”  The company’s borrowing costs have increased since it last
sold debt in December, Bloomberg data show. In that transaction,
American Tower issued $1 billion of 4.5 percent notes maturing
in January 2018, Bloomberg data show. The debt, which priced to
yield 215 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
traded at 99 cents on the dollar on Sept. 30 with a yield of
4.68 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Debt Grades  REITs must pass on at least 90 percent of their annual
taxable profit to shareholders through dividends. American Tower
doesn’t currently pay a dividend, according to today’s filing.  Proceeds from the bond may also be used to pay down
borrowings under American Tower’s revolving credit line, the
filing shows. As of June 30, the company had $275 million
outstanding under the bank line, which matures in June. The
company borrowed an additional $100 million under the agreement
in July, according to today’s filing.  American Tower is graded Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , Bloomberg data show. Its
“aggressive financial policy” is keeping it from investment-
grade, S&P analysts said in August, citing acquisitions, stock
repurchases and the REIT-related dividend payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  