-- 
American Parent AMR Falls Most Since 2003 on Bankruptcy Concern

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-03T20:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/amr-falls-to-lowest-since-2009.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
tumbled the most since 2003, triggering automatic trading halts,
on growing concern the third-largest U.S. carrier may be forced
to seek  bankruptcy protection .  So-called circuit breakers to stop the rout from moving to
other shares took effect seven times in less than an hour
starting at about 12:58 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR plunged as much
as 41 percent to $1.75, the lowest in more than eight years.  “These low-priced stocks tend to move fast, so it doesn’t
take much to trigger it and then everyone sees that and piles
on,” Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis
Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “You
add in the bankruptcy rumor, and people just start dumping
immediately.”  AMR declined 98 cents, or 33 percent, to $1.98 at 4:15 p.m.
on the NYSE, the worst one-day slide since March 2003. The
circuit breakers were introduced after the stock market’s May 6,
2010, crash to keep losses in one security from snowballing.  The company has led declines this year among the largest
U.S. airlines, plummeting 75 percent, and is headed toward a
fourth consecutive annual loss. That is helping spur bankruptcy
speculation as a slowing economy fuels investor belief that air
travel will slump, said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group LLC analyst in
 New York .  Recession Risk  “The odds are better than 50-50 that we’re going into a
recession,” Neidl said today in an interview. “If that’s the
case, you’re going to start seeing some softness in demand come
October, in the fourth quarter and next year.”  Neidl, who doesn’t rate the shares, said investors are
concerned that AMR will burn through its cash reserves unless it
can achieve deeper cuts in costs and seating capacity. He called
American the “weak sister of the 10 big airlines.”  A Chapter 11 filing “is certainly not our goal or our
preference,” said Andy Backover, an American spokesman. “We
know we need to improve our results, and we have a sense of
urgency as we work to achieve that.”  There was no company-driven news that caused the share
volatility, Backover said in an e-mail.  AMR isn’t planning a bankruptcy filing, said a person
familiar with the issue who didn’t want to be named because such
discussions are private. The company expected to end the third
quarter with cash and short-term investments of about $4.7
billion, including $475 million in restricted cash, according to
a Sept. 21 regulatory filing.  Debt Protection  The cost to protect against an AMR default soared, with
credit-default swaps jumping 15.5 percentage points to 65
percent upfront, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.
That means it would cost $6.5 million initially and $500,000
annually to shield $10 million of debt from default for five
years.  On Sept. 27, AMR sold $725.7 million of 10-year bonds
backed by aircraft to refinance maturing debt. AMR paid the
highest  interest rates  since 2009 to raise the cash.  “If AMR management were seriously considering a bankruptcy
filing in the near-term, they probably would not have refinanced
most of today’s $828 million debt maturity last week,” said
Jeff Straebler, an aviation debt strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Industry Slide  AMR’s slide helped drag down the rest of the industry, as
all 10 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index fell.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  dropped $2.27, or 12
percent, to $17.11 while  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  fell 87 cents, or
16 percent, to $4.63 and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  declined 85 cents,
or 11 percent, to $6.65.  American has blamed higher labor costs, as well as benefits
that have increased more slowly than expected from business
ventures with partners across the Atlantic and Pacific, in part
for its failure to return to profit. The airline also has a
fleet of older, less fuel-efficient planes that put it at a
disadvantage when fuel prices rise.  The carrier, which is in contract talks with unions for its
main work groups, sat out a round of consolidations that let
peers expand their route networks while reducing costs.  American didn’t follow most of its rivals in seeking to
reorganize debt through bankruptcy filings in the past decade.
As a result, the carrier has retained pension obligations and
retiree benefits that others shed in Chapter 11.  Pilot Retirements  Pilot retirements from American have totaled at least 10
times the monthly average in September and October as employees
sought to protect their pensions from a possible bankruptcy
filing and declines in the broader stock market.  American is trimming some international flights starting
this month to cover the loss of 240 pilots during the two
months, meaning passengers will see minimal disruptions, the
company said. American asked the pilots union to waive some work
rules and sought voluntary delays of September vacations among
pilots who fly  Boeing Co. (BA)  777s to assure adequate staffing.  In July, the airline took steps to renew its fleet, taking
advantage of $13 billion in financing from Boeing and Airbus SAS
to order 460 new planes to be delivered in 2013 through 2022.
AMR also has moved to spin off its American Eagle regional
airline in a bid to lower rates American pays to have passengers
flown from smaller cities to its hubs.  “There are a number of things going on that are potential
positives,” said  Michael Derchin , an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC with a “fairly valued”
rated on AMR. “ Oil prices  are coming down, you’ve got the spin,
presumably soon, of Eagle, and labor talks are ongoing. There
are a lot of things that would suggest that, on the margin,
things could start to get better over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  