-- 
Anti-Wall Street Protesters Reach ‘Prime Time’ With Arrests

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-03T16:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/anti-wall-street-protesters-reach-prime-time-goal-as-arrests-surpass-700.html
Anti-Wall Street protests escalated
with more than 700 arrests over the weekend, thrusting the once-
dwindling demonstrations into the national spotlight.  The rallies, which began 16 days ago with a goal of
occupying Wall Street for months, spread to cities including  Los
Angeles  and  Boston , where 25 people were arrested Sept. 30 after
police said they refused to leave the lobby of a  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  building. The next day, New York City police halted a
march over the Brooklyn Bridge and took hundreds of activists
into custody for blocking traffic. Some people arrested claimed
officers had tricked them into leaving the pedestrian walkway.  “The huge event on the Brooklyn Bridge is likely to bring
thousands more into the movement,” said  T.V. Reed , a professor
of American studies at Washington State University who wrote
“The Art of Protest: Culture and Activism From the Civil Rights
Movement to the Streets of Seattle.”  On placards and in chants, protesters are citing Americans’
frustrations with a financial industry that received
unprecedented taxpayer bailouts while damaging an economy in
which unemployment remains above 9 percent. They aim to put Wall
Street on the defensive, just as firms seek to shape regulations
and influence next year’s general election.  More Cities Targeted  Protests also have been held in  San Francisco , and last
week, about 200 people met in a Methodist church in Philadelphia
to organize a similar event in that city, the Philadelphia
Inquirer reported yesterday. (For a slide show of Amy Arbus’s
portraits of Wall Street protesters,  click here .)  Demonstrators initially struggled to build momentum,
drawing a fraction of the 20,000 participants that organizers
such as Adbusters, a group promoting the demonstrations, aimed
to lure to lower Manhattan for the Sept. 17 kickoff. Instead,
about 1,000 people showed up, and by the time traders and
bankers returned to work two days later, the crowd had dwindled
to about 200. The number of protesters camping in Zuccotti Park
a few blocks from the  New York  Stock Exchange fell into the
dozens that week.  On Sept. 24, a larger group of weekend protesters watched
as a New York Police Department deputy inspector used pepper
spray on some participants. The incident stoked public interest.  Amateur videos of the episode were posted to Google Inc.’s
YouTube. Celebrities including Oscar-winning actress Susan Sarandon and documentary filmmaker Michael Moore stopped by to
voice support. The police department, facing protester
accusations that it had acted improperly, said its  Civilian
Complaint Review Board  would examine the incident.  ‘Cucumber Mist’  “Maybe the pepper spray was a mistake,”  Jon Stewart , host
of the news-satire program “The Daily Show,” joked on his
Sept. 29 broadcast. “It was a hot day. Maybe that officer was
reaching for his canister of cooling, cucumber-mist spray and
grabbed the pepper spray by accident.”  Provoking police is part of protesters’ strategy to get
noticed, said Michael Heaney, a political science professor at
the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor who has researched
social movements.  “The police actions give them sympathetic attention,”
Heaney said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The protesters
want to be pepper-sprayed, they want to be arrested,” because
if authorities take actions that may be perceived as unjust,
“then that helps their cause.”  The arrests on the Brooklyn Bridge may have a bigger effect
on public opinion.  Entering ‘Prime Time’  “This gets you into the prime time,” said David Meyer, a
professor of sociology at the  University of California  at  Irvine 
and author of “The Politics of Protest: Social Movements in
America.” The question activists face is “‘How do you do
something that generates news, which doesn’t implicate you for
being at fault?’ And I guess New York City police were really
helpful in this regard.”  Police gave “multiple warnings” and told protesters to
remain on the bridge’s pedestrian walkway,  Paul Browne , an NYPD
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Some people complied,
while others blocked traffic. Authorities issued more than 700
summonses and tickets, he said.  Nine protesters who didn’t have identification or had
outstanding warrants spent about 24 hours in jail over the
weekend, said Martin R. Stolar, a member of the National Lawyers
Guild who is representing the protesters. The nine were the
first to spend time behind bars. As many as 830 people have been
arrested since the protests began. All were released with no
bail, and all 700 people who received summonses are slated to
come back to court in November or December.  Manhattan  D.A.  Stolar said he seeks to have the Manhattan District
Attorney dismiss all the arrests, comparing them to 1800 arrests
made during the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York,
where most cases were dismissed after uncertainty over whether
police led the protesters on before arresting them.  “In video that I saw, and in what was anecdotally reported
to me, protesters started out using the walkway and when it got
crowded it appeared the police invited them to walk in the
roadway,” Stolar said.  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg supported the police
department’s actions on the bridge.  “The police did exactly what they are supposed to,” he
told reporters yesterday before marching in the Pulaski Day
Parade in midtown Manhattan. New York “is the place where you
can come to express your views. Protesting is fine, but you
don’t have the right to go and without a permit violate the
law.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Overshadowed by Economy  The protests are part of broader theme of class warfare,
which might help President  Barack Obama  in next year’s election,
said G.  Terry Madonna , a pollster and political scientist at
Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  Warren Buffett , the billionaire investor and chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., told  Charlie Rose  in New York during a Sept. 30
interview on PBS that class warfare is going on, “and my class
isn’t just winning, I mean we’re killing them.”  Still, concern about Wall Street’s conduct isn’t likely to
supplant voters’ primary focus on jobs and the economy,
according to Madonna.  The Agenda Question  Another challenge facing demonstrators is their lack of a
focused agenda, Meyer said. As events began in Manhattan,
organizers aimed to get Obama to establish a commission to end
“the influence money has over our representatives in
 Washington ,” according to the Web site of Vancouver-based
Adbusters.  On the ground, protesters have been less unified, with
demands that ranged from increasing taxes on Wall Street and the
wealthy to ending global warming.  “There’s certainly a potential for starting a movement,
but right now it’s just a series of events and a holder for all
different causes,” Meyer said. “You have people talking about
ending global capitalism, and that doesn’t poll well.”  Labor groups such as the United Steelworkers union, which
says it has 850,000 members in the U.S.,  Canada  and the
Caribbean, and the local chapter of the Transport Workers Union
of America, which says it has about 38,000 members and
represents workers for the city’s subway lines, have said they
support the protests.  Spreading the Word  “We are fed up with the corporate greed, corruption and
arrogance that have inflicted pain on far too many for far too
long,” Leo Gerard, president of the steelworkers union, said in
a  statement  posted on the group’s Web site.  Yesterday afternoon, people who had been arrested the night
before congregated again in lower Manhattan, celebrating and
vowing to stay put. Musicians strummed guitars, beat drums and
played a saxophone while people danced. A bare-chested singer
painted the words “Lotion Man-Utube” on his torso and bellowed
the words “Occupy Wall Street.” National television networks
trolled the area, broadcasting live updates.  “This is the start of something big,” said Shannon
Deegan, a 28-year-old employee of a  Seattle  technology company
who said she flew to New York Sept. 30 and witnessed the bridge
arrests. She aims to replicate the protests when she returns
home.  Though the incident on the Brooklyn Bridge was initially
discouraging, “the arrests gave us more visibility,” she said.
“People are watching, and they will see our cause.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 