-- 
Marchionne Risking Chrysler Arbitration Over Labor Union Contract: Cars

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s ,   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-10-03T19:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/marchionne-risks-chrysler-arbitration-pressing-cheaper-deal-than-gm-cars.html
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer Sergio Marchionne is pressing the  United Auto Workers 
for a cheaper contract than his rivals, taking a hard-line
stance that may push the talks into arbitration.  Marchionne wrote a letter criticizing UAW President  Bob King  for his efforts. When talks have stumbled, he has declared
new deadlines, rather than open-ended extensions. And now, he
wants to remove a cap on the number of entry-level workers,
according to two people familiar with the negotiations.  “He has taken a harder line and Chrysler is in a different
situation because their balance sheet isn’t as beautiful and the
profits haven’t started to fall in,” said Kristin Dziczek, a
labor analyst with the Center for Automotive Research in Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  After winning concessions in Italy at  Fiat SpA (F) , which owns
a majority of Chrysler, Marchionne is seeking to repeat his
success in America -- even with the threat of binding
arbitration that may increase the automaker’s labor costs. New
contracts at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , whose
average pay is already higher than Chrysler’s, may be used as
the benchmark in any proceedings, said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  Jeep Decision  “He’s rolling the dice,” Shaiken said. “There will be a
precedent set at two companies with similar circumstances.”  Marchionne, speaking today to reporters at Fiat’s Turin
headquarters, said he’s confident a solution can be found.  “I sincerely hope that we don’t have to get to
arbitration,” Marchionne said. “But if necessary, Chrysler
will go there.”  The UAW said it prefers to avoid arbitration.  “Regarding Arbitration: The UAW has been very clear,” the
union said today in a post on the “UAW Chrysler Talks”
Facebook page. “It is our intention to negotiate a contract,
and bring it to the membership for approval.”  Fiat traded 3.4 percent lower at 3.96 euros as of 5:04 p.m.
in Milan as European stocks fell on concern that the region’s
debt crisis will curb growth. The company said today it will
quit  Italy ’s Confindustria employer group on Jan. 1, seeking
greater labor flexibility. It also gave the go-ahead for
production of a Jeep sport-utility vehicle in Turin.  The UAW contracts with GM, Ford and Chrysler have
traditionally followed a pattern of wages and benefits set by
the first company to reach a deal. The union agreed not to
strike Chrysler or GM as part of the U.S. government-backed
bankruptcy reorganizations, allowing unresolved differences to
be settled in binding arbitration.  Ford Meeting  GM’s new four-year contract was ratified by members, the
UAW said Sept. 28. The UAW has asked local union leaders from
Ford factories throughout the U.S. to gather in Detroit
tomorrow, said  Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the UAW.  “We call council meetings in anticipation of reaching an
agreement,” she said in a telephone interview.  Marchionne took over Chrysler when Fiat gained control of
the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company in the 2009 bankruptcy.
Under him, the No. 3 U.S. automaker has lowered its break-even
point to 1.5 million vehicle sales and has forecast its first
annual profit since the restructuring this year, with earnings
of $200 million to $500 million, excluding some expenses.  The CEO wants to ensure fixed costs don’t increase beyond
2015 by eliminating a cap on the number of workers he can pay
entry-level wages, said two people who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. A cap of 25 percent is
scheduled to go into effect in 2015. The entry-level assembler
wage is $14.89 to $16.28 an hour at Chrysler, according to the
company, compared with $28.31 for the so-called tier-one wage.  2007 Contract  Under the 2007 contract that allowed for hiring of the
lower-paid workers, when an automaker surpasses 25 percent of
the workforce on the lower second-tier wage, the company must
move some to the first-tier wage, Dziczek said. Those workers,
however, would maintain their second-tier benefits, which don’t
include a defined pension plan or access to retiree health care
coverage. The cap was lifted through 2015 as part of the
bankruptcy agreement, UAW leaders said.  “The UAW will fight hard to maintain that ladder to the
first tier for second-tier workers,” Dziczek said. “That’s key
to why the union agreed to the second tier in the first place.”  Chrysler, which had 43 percent fewer hourly workers at the
end of 2010 than 2007, cut deeper during the recession than its
U.S. competitors and has rehired more people at the so-called
second-tier wage.  ‘Core Issue’  About 12 percent to 14 percent of Chrysler’s hourly workers
are at the entry-level wage while at GM it is less than 3
percent and Ford has fewer than 100.  Eliminating the cap on second-tier workers, as Marchionne
is seeking, would get the contract voted down by Chrysler’s
workers, said Art Schwartz, president of Labor & Economics
Associates in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, and a former GM labor
negotiator.  “The ladder to the first tier is a core issue for the
UAW,” Schwartz said. “To wipe out that pathway would not go
over well with the membership.”  Chrysler also doesn’t want to give a signing bonus as large
as the $5,000-a-worker payout in the GM-UAW contract, three
people familiar with the talks said. Chrysler is pushing for
signing bonuses of $3,500, two of the people said.  “We and GM are completely different,” Marchionne told
reporters Sept. 19 in Turin, Italy.  Marchionne is known in  Europe  for his tough labor stance,
often clashing publicly with Italian unions, said Arthur
Wheaton, a Cornell University labor expert.  “He is an extremely good negotiator,” he said.  ‘Whipsawing’ Unions  Marchionne is playing the UAW off the Italian unions, who
have fought his efforts to implement new cost savings, Wheaton
said. “‘Whipsawing’ is the term,” he said. “He can use
Chrysler against Fiat.”  Marchionne reached three labor agreements in less than a
year as part of his strategy of raising productivity at Fiat’s
domestic plants. The deals at all three factories include
measures to limit strikes and curtail absenteeism.  Fiat also won approval to introduce longer shifts and run
plants on a six-day workweek. In addition to more hours, workers
get shorter breaks and postpone lunch until their shift’s end.  The changes at Mirafiori, Fiat’s oldest plant, in January
were won with a 54 percent majority and set a milestone in
Italian labor relations.  ‘Incongruous’ Environment  Today’s Jeep announcement means production of sport-utility
vehicles will go ahead in Italy with a smaller model and delayed
until the second half of 2013 from the last quarter of 2012.
Fiat had planned to make the redesigned Jeep Compass at the
factory. Now it will make a smaller one, as well as a Fiat SUV
and a five-door version of the Alfa Mito, said a person familiar
with the plan, who asked not to be identified.  “It is not the medium-size vehicle platform,”  Sergio
Marchionne  said today when asked about which model will be
produced at Mirafiori. He declined to elaborate.  Fiat said it will produce the Alfa Romeo Mito at Mirafiori,
without confirming the five-door plan.  The decision to withdraw from Confindustria was prompted by
concern that an agreement struck with unions in June won’t be
fully implemented, threatening its effectiveness and limiting
operational flexibility, Fiat said in a letter to the group
dated Sept. 30 and published by the manufacturer today.  “Fiat, which is engaged in the creation of a major
international group with 181 plants in 30 countries, cannot
afford to operate in Italy in an environment of uncertainty that
is so incongruous with the conditions that exist elsewhere in
the industrialized world,” Marchionne said in the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  