-- 
Harrison Chants at Mad Stabber; Lange’s Acid-Tongued Belle: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/harrison-chants-at-crazy-stabber-lange-s-acid-tongued-belle-greg-evans.html
When a knife-wielding madman broke
into George Harrison’s country mansion in 1999, the spiritual
Beatle who melded sitar with psychedelia responded with a chant.  That small, strange detail is recounted almost offhandedly
by George’s widow, Olivia, in Martin Scorsese’s affectionate,
exhaustive two-part HBO documentary “ George Harrison: Living in
the Material World .” Harrison’s easily mocked mysticism has
rarely seemed as sincere and hard-won as it does in Scorsese’s
respectful, 3 1/2-hour profile.  With a clout no other filmmaker could top, Scorsese (with
Olivia Harrison as a co-producer and interviewee) has recruited
all the big players, from  Paul McCartney , Ringo Starr and  Yoko Ono  to George Martin,  Phil Spector ,  Eric Clapton  and Tom Petty.
“George Harrison” likely will stand as the definitive documentary
about Beatle No. 3.  Harrison himself is present too, ever blunt in interviews
spanning his career. After the stabbing that weakened his fight
against the cancer that would eventually kill him in 2001,
Harrison reflected, “I’ve got a son who needs a father, but other
than that I can’t think of much reason to be here.”  Moments like that might catch even well-versed Beatlemaniacs
off-guard, though much else in “ George Harrison ” conforms to what
we already know: Having enjoyed the spoils of rock stardom --
fame, money, drugs, women -- he turned to Eastern religion with a
fervor only sampled by his bandmates.  No Saint  Harrison was no saint, even if Scorsese’s film makes only
vague allusions to his darker side.  “He did like women,” says a discreet Olivia, “and women
liked him.” George, says Ono, “was very nice” but “didn’t mince
words.”  Scorsese also skimps on details and characters he presumes
need no explanation, particularly during the early Beatles era of
Part One. Wikipedia searches on “Astrid Kirchherr” should soar
this month.  The longer Part Two is more fleshed out, perhaps because
Harrison’s solo career, so commercially successful throughout the
1970s, is ripe for revisiting. The hits, including “My Sweet
Lord,” “Give Me Love” and “What Is Life,” sound fantastic in the
documentary’s mix.  As Harrison himself said to Petty upon the death of fellow
Traveling Wilbury Roy Orbison, “He’s still around. Just listen.’”  “George Harrison: Living in the Material World” airs
Wednesday and Thursday on  HBO  at 9 p.m. New York time. Rating:
***  ‘American Horror Story’  Two episodes into FX’s “ American Horror Story ” -- the fall
season’s most audacious new series -- you may pick up allusions
to “Rosemary’s Baby,” “The Shining,” nurse-killer Richard Speck
and the Columbine shootings.  This is a haunted house show that knows what scares America.  Co-creators Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk are best known for
producing “Glee,” but their new show falls closer to the duo’s
more macabre seasons of “Nip/Tuck.” It’s scary, campy and way,
way over the top.  Connie Britton (“Friday Night Lights”) and Dylan McDermott
(“The Practice”) play the Harmons, new owners of a creepy,
suspiciously low-priced Victorian mansion in  Los Angeles . Their
troubled teenage daughter Violet (Taissa Farmiga) seems
positively thrilled by the home’s history of murder and suicide.  Violet is equally taken with one of her dad’s psychiatric
patients, a young man (Evan Peters) who dresses like Kurt Cobain
and fantasizes about shooting up a school. He’s also capable of
summoning sharp-toothed demons when bullies need terrorizing.  Malicious Lange  There’s both a spooky housekeeper (played, for reasons I
won’t spoil, by two actresses, Frances Conroy and Alexandra
Breckenridge) and an evil presence who favors head-to-toe S&M
latex gear.  As if that’s not enough, a fabulously entertaining Jessica Lange saunters through as the loony Southern belle of a neighbor.
With her Tippi Hedren hairdo and floral print silks, Lange seems
to have escaped from one of those Grand Guignol 1960s flicks that
brought Golden Age actresses back to the screen.  Lange’s politically incorrect jibes and malicious threats
are delivered with a syrupy lilt. Her word for a girl with Down
syndrome probably hasn’t been uttered on TV in decades, and is as
startling as any of the butchery going on in the basement.  “American Horror Story” airs Wednesday on FX at 10 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 