-- 
Asian Economies Weaken as European Debt Crisis Crushes Investor Confidence

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-10-03T07:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/asian-economies-weaken-as-european-debt-crisis-crushes-investor-confidence.html
Indian and Australian manufacturing
data were the weakest since 2009 and Japanese business sentiment
failed to recover from the March 11 earthquake, signaling Asian
economies are slowing as investor confidence sinks.  A purchasing managers’ index for  India  fell to 50.4 in
September from 52.6 in August, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said in an e-mailed report today. A gauge for
Australia slid to the lowest since June 2009. In  Tokyo , the
Tankan index of large manufacturers was at 2 in September,
compared with 6 before the quake.  Asian stocks tumbled ahead of a meeting of European finance
ministers to consider measures to counter the sovereign-debt
crisis, highlighting limits on the support that the region can
give to global growth. An increase in a manufacturing index for
China released Oct. 1 suggests that the nation’s economy is so
far weathering the global financial turmoil, although a separate
HSBC survey indicated smaller companies are suffering.  “At the most what we can hope for is  China ’s resilience
can help Korea and Southeast Asian economies to avoid
recession,” said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economics
at HSBC in  Hong Kong . “Asia cannot save the world.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 2.9 percent at 3:04 p.m.
in Tokyo, after slumping last quarter by the most since 2008.  In India, record interest-rate increases are contributing
to a slowdown. The  Reserve Bank  of India last week signaled it
may maintain its tight monetary policy after Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said inflation remains above an acceptable level.
nation’s recovery.  ‘Not Charging Forward’  In Tokyo, the quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers rose from minus 9 in June, the Bank of  Japan  said.  “We can be happy we’re not seeing a further slump here,”
 Martin Schulz , a senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute
in Tokyo, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. At the
same time, companies are indicating “we are really not charging
forward right now,” given risks in the global outlook and the
continued wait for Japan’s government to implement full-scale
reconstruction, he said.  An Australian manufacturing index dropped to 42.3 from 43.3
in August, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said today. It was the sixth month in
seven the index was below 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  “Caution continues to be the order of the day with most
respondents uncertain about the outlook,”  Heather Ridout , chief
executive officer of the industry group.  Chinese Data  In China, the Purchasing Managers’ Index published Oct. 1
by the logistics federation rose for a second month, to 51.2. A
separate PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Sept.
30 was unchanged from August, at 49.9.  The index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics,
which reflects a survey of more than 400 companies, is more
weighted toward small businesses that have been hit harder by
tightening measures, according to economists including Bank of
America’s Lu and  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s
Liu Li-Gang. The official PMI has a greater focus on larger
enterprises, they say.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  