-- 
That Retirement Calculator May Be Lying to You

-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 
2011-10-03T14:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/that-retirement-calculator-may-be-lying-to-you.html
Anyone who puts even minimal elbow grease into retirement
planning is well aware of "the number," the anxiety-producing
seven-figure sum online calculators and financial advisers say
you'll need to enjoy a comfortable lifestyle after your career
ends. There's a far smaller number that deserves more
attention now -- the rate of return at the heart of that
calculation.  According to Ibbotson data, the long-term annualized gain
for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dating back to 1926
is 9.9 percent. For bonds, it's 5.4 percent. (From 1970 to
2010, the Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond index average was
8.3 percent.) Plug those numbers into a portfolio of 60
percent stocks and 40 percent bonds and the return is about 8
percent, which is precisely the number most financial planners
-- and retirement calculators -- were using up until recently.  With bond yields at record lows and stock dividend yields
less than half their long-term norm, however, expecting
portfolios to deliver returns in line with those historical
averages may be a dangerous assumption. Using lower return
numbers and seeing a higher savings target emerge may be a
harsh reality check, but better to grapple with it now than be
shocked when there's less time to ramp up savings or cut
spending to remedy a shortfall.  Today many advisers are looking out a decade or so and
lowering the rate of return they expect from stocks and bonds.
Jon West, a director at Research Affiliates, which manages $50
billion, says the firm's number crunching leads it to estimate
that stocks could deliver 5 percent to 6 percent, and bonds 2
percent or so. That's based on getting "at least 2 percent
less from dividends," anemic earnings growth, and no growth in
the stock market's price-earnings ratio, he says. It produces
a return below 5 percent for a 60/40 portfolio. That's a far
cry from 8 percent.  Vanguard founder Jack Bogle has a slightly more upbeat
assessment. He expects stock returns of 7 percent to 7.5
percent over the next decade. He assumes no expansion in the
market's price-earnings ratio, dividend yields of 2.2
percent, and earnings growth of at least 5 percent. Bogle
expects bond returns to be about 3 percent. For a balanced
portfolio, that produces a net nominal return of slightly more
than 6 percent. A higher forecast is T. Rowe Price's estimate
of 7 percent; until this year it had used 8 percent.  Not-So-Happy Returns  Lower return expectations are a function of pretty
straightforward math. Dividend income has historically played
a large role in stocks' total return. Dating back nearly 100
years, dividends have contributed slightly less than half (4.5
percentage points, to be exact) of the S&P 500's 9.9 percent
annualized total return. And since 1995 dividends have
practically gone into witness protection, averaging about 2
percent.  The challenge for bond investors is today's low yields. A
bond's total return comprises yield plus any changes in the
underlying price of the bond. Bond prices rise when yields
fall, and with the 10-year Treasury at a record low and the
Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond index below 3 percent, there's
little room for prices to rise. So figure an annualized return
below 3 percent for bonds over the next decade, says West.  More sober return realities aren't reflected in all of the
online retirement calculators. Some, such as ones offered by
Principal Group and Yahoo! Finance, use 8 percent as the
default rate. Others, including the AARP and Bloomberg
calculators, default to 6 percent. The Labor Dept.'s
calculator plugs in 5 percent. Vanguard's gives savers a
slider to play with that's initially set at 5 percent. It
labels 5 percent "conservative" and describes a return
anywhere from 6 percent to 9 percent as "moderate." That's a
mighty wide range.  Vanguard senior investment analyst Maria Bruno says the
range gives users “flexibility” and is based on the different
outcomes investors have experienced historically depending on
whether they held only stocks, only bonds or combinations of
the two. Because these are based on long-term data, “we don’t
modify ranges like this in different types of market
conditions,” she says.  Principal says in an e-mail that its 8 percent figure is
based on a 10 to 30 year view of the market "which we believe
is appropriate for long-term retirement savings." When
contacted, Yahoo Finance said it is reviewing the rates used
on the site's personal finance calculators.  Going to  Monte Carlo   Online retirement calculators may also rely on what's known
as Monte Carlo simulations. Rather than choose one rate of
return to base calculations on, Monte Carlo incorporates
thousands of return scenarios that deviate from assumed
benchmark rates of return based on different volatility
scenarios, as well as assumed withdrawal scenarios for
retirees. After the program runs the numbers, it gives a
"success rate" showing the percentage of market scenarios
where a saver arrived at the end of his life span and still
had money. There are free calculators using Monte Carlo
simulations at T. Rowe Price, Fidelity, and Schwab.  Monte Carlo simulations are useful but can have
shortcomings. William Bernstein, a principal at Efficient
Frontier Advisors and author of "The Investor's Manifesto,"
worries they can give a false sense of security since, for the
most part, they assume normally distributed returns -- not the
dramatic market meltdowns of recent years. Fidelity's
calculator shows savers two probabilities: one that assumes
the historical rates of return are borne out, and another
shows how savers would fare if they had below-average
outcomes.  If using any of the calculations shows that a savings goal
needs to be hiked, one way to eke more return out of a
portfolio is to focus on fees. Forking over 1 percent to 1.5
percent of your money each year to cover a mutual fund's
expense ratio may have been easy to overlook in the 1990s when
the S&P 500's annualized return was 18.2 percent. If returns
are 6 percent or 7 percent over the next decade, a 1.5 percent
expense ratio cuts a net return by about 25 percent.  "In this day and age, there's simply no excuse for paying
[an expense ratio of] more than 0.25 percent for a portfolio
of U.S. stocks and bonds, and maybe 0.5 percent for a
portfolio of foreign stocks," says Bernstein.  (Carla Fried is a freelancer based in  California .)  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  