-- 
Bahrain Court Sentences 35 Over Role in Anti-Government Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-10-03T13:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bahrain-court-sentences-35-over-role-in-anti-government-protests.html
A special court in  Bahrain  sentenced
35 people to terms ranging from 15 years to life in prison in
three cases related to anti-government unrest earlier this year,
including the murder of a Pakistani national.  Thirteen “outlaws” were given life sentences today for
killing the Pakistani after assaulting him outside his home with
wooden planks and metal bars, and for attacking another man,
state-run Bahrain News Agency said.  Bahraini authorities detained hundreds of people, most of
them Shiite Muslims, following a crackdown on protesters who
held rallies in February and March to demand a more
representative government. At least 35 people were killed during
the clashes. Shiites represent about 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population, according to the U.S. State Department, while its
hereditary rulers are Sunni.  In another case, 15 defendants each received 15 years in
jail for the attempted murder of a military official who was
stabbed in his car, BNA said. The defendants also destroyed
buildings at the University of Bahrain and participated in anti-
regime demonstrations, BNA reported.  In the third case, the First National Safety Court in
Manama, the capital, sentenced six people to 15 years and one
man to 18 years in prison for the attempted murder of several
people at the University of Bahrain by surrounding them in a
building before setting it on fire, stealing computers and the
possession of flammable containers, the  news agency  said.  The court also imposed a joint fine of 349,300 dinars
($926,500) against all the defendants, according to BNA.  ‘Black Day’  “Monday is a black day that is added to the record of
political persecution from which the citizens of Bahrain
suffer,” the opposition al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group,
said in an e-mailed statement that called for the immediate
release of all political prisoners.  A Bahraini court yesterday sentenced two people to three
months in prison and fined each 100 dinars for blocking traffic
as part of an anti-government protest.  Cases against several other people involved in the Sept. 21
and Sept. 26 incidents are under way in the Traffic Misdemeanor
Court, BNA reported, citing traffic prosecutor Hussain Al-Buali.
The opposition has urged Bahrainis to block traffic in Manama
and its suburbs during rush hour tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  