-- 
Bank Century Fallout Spreads as Bank Indonesia’s Mulya Targeted by Probe

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-10-04T06:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bank-indonesia-deputy-governor-investigated-over-loan-relieved-of-duties.html
Bank Indonesia  Deputy Governor Budi Mulya became the latest target of probes into the 2008 PT Bank
Century bailout that have threatened President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s ability to fulfill his economic agenda.  Mulya is under investigation by the state auditor regarding
a “personal” 1 billion rupiah ($112,000) loan he obtained from
the former owner of Bank Century, Difi Johansyah, a spokesman at
Bank Indonesia in Jakarta, said yesterday. The deputy governor
was relieved of his role as head of monetary policy operations
as of the end of last month while retaining the deputy’s post,
Johansyah said. Mulya didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone
seeking comment yesterday and today.  The Bank Century rescue at the height of the global
financial crisis was attacked by Yudhoyono’s own political
allies, with parliament voting last year for a criminal probe of
Vice President Boediono and then Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati . Mulya’s case may reinforce a perception of corruption
in a country where graft was rated the “most problematic
factor” for doing business by the World Economic Forum.  “This is just one of many” cases involving the central
bank’s leadership, said Hal Hill, professor of economics at
 Australian National University  in Canberra who specializes in
Indonesia. “There is a link between foreign investment inflows
and how countries are ranked on these corruption indicators.”  Stocks Fall  The Jakarta Composite index of stocks slid a second day,
falling 1.1 percent as of 1:32 p.m. local time. The rupiah fell
0.7 percent to 8,960 a dollar.  While graft remains a worry for investors in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy, the more immediate concern is that the
European debt crisis will slow global growth and is “not solely
confined to Indonesia on corruption,” said Lye Thim Loong, who
helps manage about $770 million at Libra Invest Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur .  “It’s one of the concerns, especially in a country with all
this political risk,” he said. “Indonesia is one of the
countries that have shown their willingness to combat corruption.
Basically leave it to the authority to do this. The country is
progressing on the right track.”  Still, President Yudhoyono’s popularity has fallen to a
record low, with a poll by Indonesian Survey Circle in June
showing 47.2 percent approved of the leader who was elected in
2004 and returned to power in 2009. He garnered 61 percent of
votes cast in 2009.  Opposition Campaign  Corruption, government inefficiency and poor infrastructure
were among reasons that dragged Indonesia down two places to
46th out of 142 economies, according to the  World Economic
Forum ’s Global Competitiveness Report 2011-2012.  Bank Century, and its 6.7 trillion-rupiah government
bailout in 2008, was at the center of a campaign by opposition
lawmakers against Boediono and Sri Mulyani Indrawati, who left
last year to become one of the  World Bank ’s managing directors.
Two major partners in Yudhoyono’s coalition, Golkar and the
Prosperous Justice Party, joined the opposition in accusing the
officials of abusing their authority during the rescue.  The parliament’s vote in March 2010 for a criminal probe
targeted two officials familiar to investors and threatened to
distract Yudhoyono from his agenda of improving infrastructure
and overhauling the legal system.  Boediono was central bank governor when the Bank Century
rescue was approved. In 2008, Boediono’s predecessor at the
central bank, Burhanuddin Abdullah, was found guilty by the
country’s anti-corruption court of illegally transferring funds
to Indonesian lawmakers. Abdullah denied any wrongdoing.  State Auditor  Mulya obtained a loan from a Bank Century owner in October
2008 and returned it in January 2009, Johansyah said. The probe
is part of a state audit of the lender, he said yesterday.  Hadi Poernomo, chairman of the state auditor, declined to
comment on the Mulya case when stopped at parliament by
reporters today, saying the investigation into Bank Century will
be completed in November.  Mulya’s new role will include overseeing the central bank’s
assets, museum, bureau secretariat and representative offices,
Johansyah said. Deputy Governors Halim Alamsyah and Hartadi
Sarwono will assume Mulya’s role, he said. Alamsyah will lead
the central bank’s monetary policy operations and Sarwono will
lead its foreign-exchange reserve management, Johansyah said.  Bank Vacancies  The central bank already has one vacancy among its six
deputy governor positions, after Budi Rochadi died in July. A
third deputy, Muliaman Hadad, has his term finishing in coming
months. Governor Darmin Nasution took office last year after
Bank Indonesia went more than a year without a leader.  Policy makers are in the midst of managing a rising
challenge to sustain growth in the nation with the world’s
fourth-largest population, as  Europe ’s debt woes and a faltering
U.S. economy hurt the global recovery.  After strengthening 5.4 percent against the dollar in the
first eight months of the year, Indonesia’s rupiah fell about 3
percent last month even as the central bank said it would buy
bonds and intervene to support the currency “until the market
cools.” The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  of stocks has dropped 21
percent from its high of the year reached in August.  Indonesia’s inflation slowed in September, giving the
central bank room to leave  interest rates  unchanged as global
growth slows. Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent last month from
a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in Jakarta
yesterday.  Easing prices may increase  Bank Indonesia’s  readiness to
lower borrowing costs and protect growth after Deputy Governor
Sarwono signaled last month that the central bank has room to
cut rates if inflation “behaves.”  ‘Price Pressures’  Bank Indonesia kept the benchmark  reference rate  unchanged
at 6.75 percent for a seventh month in September. Policy makers
are ready to “adjust the rate and mix monetary policy toward
loosening” if price gains slow and the economy expands less
than expected due to a global slowdown, Perry Warjiyo, the
bank’s director of economic research, said last month. The next
rate decision will be announced Oct. 11.  “This case will give little impact to  Indonesia ’s monetary
policy as we see that when there was no governor for about one
year, monetary policy was still doing well,” said  Fauzi Ichsan ,
a Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “BI
must contain the issue to prevent it from affecting its overall
reputation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  