-- 
Barclays Expands Cat Bond Access as Debt Gains to March Level

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-10-03T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/barclays-expands-cat-bond-access-as-debt-gains-to-march-level.html
Barclays Capital  is seeking to boost
issuance of bonds designed to protect insurers from the
costliest natural disasters as the debt rallies towards levels
last seen before  Japan ’s earthquake in March.  Barclays has started a program to expand the pool of buyers
able to purchase hurricane- and earthquake-linked securities,
which are typically $150 million and only available in the over-
the-counter, or private, markets, according to a statement
today. Investors will be able to acquire them in documented note
form, and in sizes smaller or larger than the usual transaction,
the statement said.  The approximately $12 billion catastrophe bond market is
expanding as the securities recover from a 3.5 percent decline
in the two weeks following the March 11 quake in Japan that
caused a tsunami and made the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
station spew radiation. The securities have rallied 2.8 percent
since Aug. 26 as  Hurricane Irene  approached the U.S. East Coast.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Master index has lost 0.45 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slid 3.9 percent.  “We have seen increased interest from corporates and
governments in hedging their specific risk exposures via the
insurance-linked market” since the earthquake, said Daniel
Brookman, head of event-linked products at Barclays in  New York .
“We expect that this program’s existing documentation and low
transaction costs will enable a broader range of sponsors to
come to market more quickly and frequently than has been seen to
date.”  Cat Bond Index  Insurance companies and reinsurers sell cat bonds to help
cover their most extreme risks, with the proceeds of the issues
set aside and paid out in the event of a qualifying disaster.
Buyers get a relatively high interest margin for holding the
notes and risk forfeiting their entire investment if the
securities are triggered before they mature. Hurricane season in
the Atlantic begins June 1 and ends Nov. 30.  The Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index rallied to 94.06
last week, its fourth consecutive period of gains and the
highest since March 18. The securities are down 3.8 percent for
the year, the data show.  The program is an extension of Barclays’ event-linked swaps
business and event-linked replicator product suite, the unit of
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 