-- 
Barclays, Bank of America Said to Consider Selling Stakes in Archstone

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-03T18:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/barclays-bank-of-america-said-to-consider-selling-stakes-in-archstone.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  may sell their shares of apartment company Archstone after
failing to reach an agreement with  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
to liquidate the entire business, said two people with knowledge
of the banks’ plans.  Barclays and Bank of America together own 53 percent of
Archstone, the apartment-complex owner acquired in a $22 billion
leveraged buyout in 2007 led by Lehman, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
combined stakes are valued at between $2 billion and $3 billion,
said one of the people. The Wall Street Journal reported the
banks’ plans yesterday.  The two banks and Lehman, which filed the biggest
bankruptcy in history three years ago, couldn’t agree on selling
the entire company, which has ownership interests in hundreds of
apartment developments from Washington and New York to Los
Angeles and San Francisco, because Lehman prefers to hold the
assets until a public offering, the people said.  Lenders are looking to sell assets such as Bank of
America’s $800 million U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee to bolster
capital ahead of stricter internatonal rules on capital.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,  Equity
Residential (EQR)  and  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)  are among the
companies that have made unsucessful bids for parts or all of
Archstone, one of the people said.  Lehman, Barclays and Bank of America provided financing for
the 2007 deal and can’t sell the entire busines unless all three
agree, said one of the people. Archstone could be sold for
between $16 billion and $18 billion, according to the person.  Kerrie McHugh, of Bank of America, Brandon Ashcraft of
Barclays Capital, Kimberly Macleod of Lehman and Peter Jakel of
Archstone said they couldn’t comment on plans to sell the
business.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  