-- 
Berezovsky Seeks $5.56 Billion From Abramovich Over Sibneft

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T16:53:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/berezovsky-seeks-5-56-billion-from-abramovich-on-oil-deal-threat-claims.html
Roman Abramovich , the billionaire
owner of Chelsea Football Club, was accused in a  London  trial of
using political threats to force his former business partner
 Boris Berezovsky  to sell shares in a Russian  oil company .  Abramovich, one of Russia’s richest men, used his ties to
the Kremlin to make Berezovsky sell a stake in OAO Sibneft at a
fraction of its value in 2000 and to part with shares in an
aluminum company four years later due to a breach of contract,
Berezovsky’s lawyer said today at the start of a 16-day trial in
London. Berezovsky claims he lost at least $5.56 billion.  The dispute stems from a business deal to acquire Sibneft
that both men thought “would make them wealthy beyond their
wildest dreams,” Berezovsky’s lawyer Laurence Rabinowitz said
at today’s hearing. The partnership collapsed when Abramovich
decided “wealth and influence were worth more than loyalty.”  Berezovsky, a billionaire living in exile in the U.K. since
falling out with Russia’s then-President  Vladimir Putin , claims
his former close friend Abramovich took advantage of his
political misfortune to wrest ownership of the companies from
Berezovsky and a third business partner, the Georgian
businessman Badri Patarkatsishvili, who died in London in 2008.  Abramovich, now 44, purchased the Sibneft stake from
Berezovsky for $1.3 billion before selling the company in 2005
to state-run OAO Gazprom for $13.1 billion. Berezovsky claims
Abramovich told him the Russian government would take the shares
if he didn’t agree to sell them, resulting in a trading loss of
about $5 billion.  ‘Substantial Cash Payments’  Abramovich rejects the claim, saying Berezovsky never owned
the Sibneft shares and that the deal between the men consisted
of Abramovich making “substantial cash payments” to Berezovsky
in exchange for his “political patronage,” which was common in
 Russia  in the 1990s, according to court records.  Berezovsky also alleges Abramovich forced him to sell a 25
percent stake in the aluminum producer United Co. Rusal to
another party in 2004 at a loss of $564 million as a result of
various breaches of trust. He claims the stake was reduced in
value after Abramovich sold another 25-percent holding in Rusal
without permission for $1.58 billion.  Abramovich says the claims are “wholly unfounded,”
according to his prepared argument in the case.  A judge last year rejected Abramovich’s bid to block the
case from going to trial in a ruling upheld by the U.K. Court of
Appeal in February. Abramovich was later ordered to pay 774,000
pounds ($1.2 million) of Berezovsky’s legal fees.  Judge Elizabeth Gloster, who is hearing the trial, said in
a separate judgment in May that Patarkatsishvili, the other
businessman in the dispute, was of “central importance” to the
case and ordered Berezovsky to share transcripts of the
Georgian’s previous discussions with Abramovich’s lawyers.  Abramovich claims Berezovsky’s evidence in the Rusal
dispute is “inconsistent” and based mostly on oral evidence of
discussions that allegedly took place between Abramovich and
Patarkatsishvili.  Patarkatsishvili, who gave control of his Imedi media
company to  News Corp . in 2007 in order to enter politics, died
at the age of 52 in his home near London in February 2008, a
month after being charged in  Georgia  with plotting a coup
against President Mikheil Saakashvili.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  