-- 
Mordashov Expands Steel Output as Mittal Retrenches: Commodities

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-10-04T16:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/billionaire-mordashov-adds-steel-mills-as-mittal-retrenches-commodities.html
Russian billionaire Alexey Mordashov,
driving a $2 billion-a-year expansion program at steelmaker OAO
Severstal, is investing in new U.S. output just as largest rival
ArcelorMittal shutters plants to weather a slump in demand.  Severstal,  Russia ’s second-biggest steelmaker, will double
capacity at its Columbus plant in  Mississippi  when it starts a
$505 million mill this month, according to a company
 presentation . It also plans to bring $756 million of new output
online at its Dearborn, Michigan, plant by the end of 2011, and
complete a $600 million mini-mill in Balakovo, Russia, in 2013.  “We don’t see any indication of the problem in the steel
market,” Mordashov, the 46-year-old chief executive officer of
Cherepovets-based Severstal, said in an interview in  London .
“Our order book is full, we even managed to increase prices
slightly recently, we have a good view for October.”  As Severstal adds production,  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s
biggest steelmaker, is cutting back to counter surplus capacity
in Europe. The company idled plants in Luxembourg,  France  and
 Germany  last month as orders from the European construction
industry dropped amid economic stagnation.  ArcelorMittal’s stock has lagged behind peers this year,
tumbling 57 percent in Amsterdam. Severstal has lost 39 percent
in Moscow, while Nippon Steel Corp. and  South Korea ’s Posco each
slid 28 percent. Severstal’s potential return this year is
estimated at 103 percent, ranking it eighth among global peers,
Bloomberg consensus estimates show. Russian companies occupy the
top three places, while ArcelorMittal ranks 14th.  Russian Benefit  While ArcelorMittal and Severstal both sell steel in Europe
and the U.S., Severstal benefits from lower expenses at its
Russian mills, where the average cost of steel-slab output is
about $400 a metric ton, compared with as much as $600 a ton in
 Europe , said Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at UralSib Capital.  “Severstal has a different strategy from ArcelorMittal”
and benefits from operating in Russia, the most profitable
emerging market, the Moscow-based analyst said by telephone.
“ArcelorMittal has large exposure in Europe.”  ArcelorMittal said Sept. 27 it will idle a furnace and two
rolling mills at Rodange and Schifflange, Luxembourg, following
an earlier decision to suspend furnaces at Eisenhuttenstadt,
Germany, and Florange, France. The company confirmed today it
will also take furnaces off line in  Spain , citing “continuing
weakness” in demand. It plans to save $1 billion next year by
shuttering plants and moving production to cheaper sites.  Shares Slide  ArcelorMittal dropped 3.8 percent to 11.685 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close in Amsterdam, a one-week low. Severstal fell 5.3
percent to 314.50 rubles in Moscow.  Both steelmakers plan to boost investment in mining as they
seek to avert rising raw-material costs. Severstal, which has
snapped up  iron-ore  mines in  Brazil  and Liberia, seeks to almost
triple ore output by 2020. Coking-coal volumes will more than
double over the period, helping boost steel production by a
third to 19.6 million tons, the company said last week.  ArcelorMittal has also acquired mining assets in Brazil and
Liberia, and said in July it would increase capital spending
this year to $5.5 billion, from a previous target of $5 billion.  “ China  steel demand growth is expected to continue to
absorb new supply of iron ore, keeping global supply/demand
tight,” the company said last month in a  presentation . “We
expect continued growth in steel consumption in the developing
world,” it said, adding that margins need to improve before new
capacity is justified outside China.  Steel Drops  European hot-rolled steel coil, used in cars and buildings,
has slumped 17 percent from its February peak to 527.50 euros
($699.60) a metric ton. Coil exported from the Black Sea has
dropped to $717.50 from $790 in the period, Metal Bulletin data
show. Input costs have more than doubled since 2005, with an
almost threefold jump in iron-ore and coking-coal fees.  Steel companies in Europe and  North America  have struggled
to pass on higher raw-material costs to customers as slower
economic growth erodes demand. In the U.S., Severstal sold three
unprofitable steel mills in March, after separating its Italian
Lucchini SpA unit last year.  Severstal, the biggest Russian steelmaker after  Evraz Group
SA (EVR) , has followed competitors in tapping emerging markets, where
demand growth has outpaced expansion elsewhere. The company
agreed in December to form a joint steel venture with NMDC Ltd.
in  India . It also plans to spend as much as $3.5 billion at the
Putu Range in Liberia and as much as $2 billion at the Amapa
iron-ore project in Brazil, it said last week.  Mining ‘Essential’  “Mining is an essential part of our company, a very strong
generator of revenues and earnings,” Mordashov said Sept. 29.
“Our strategy is about upstream integration into raw materials
and presence on the markets with good opportunities to grow,
first of all emerging markets.”  Severstal and Hyderabad-based NMDC have agreed to invest
150 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to build a steel plant in the
southern Indian state of Karnataka, NMDC Chairman Rana Som said
Sept. 28 in New Delhi. ArcelorMittal and  Posco (005490)  have already
unveiled plans for steel projects in the state.  “ Asia  is very, very attractive,” Mordashov said.
“Countries like  Indonesia ,  Vietnam  could be interesting for us
just because of the fundamentals.  Latin America  as well could
give us good opportunities, especially taking into account
access to raw materials.”  Brazil Expansion  In May, Severstal agreed to buy 25 percent of SPG
Mineracao, which owns iron-ore exploration licenses in northern
Brazil, and has an option to buy a further 50 percent. The
company, which also mines gold in Guinea and Burkina Faso, has
scaled back in developed markets such as the U.S., where it sold
plants to Renco Group Inc. in March, retaining the Dearborn and
Columbus sites.  “It’s good to be in mature markets as long as you can have
a sound business model, like we have in the U.S. now after the
reshuffle of our portfolio,” Mordashov said. “Because of very
clear fundamentals, we believe we should follow the trend of the
market and be more focused on Asia.”  Severstal may not be as resilient to market volatility as
Mordashov’s comments suggest, UralSib’s Smolin said, citing
decisions to backtrack on bullish investments in the past.  “I have a strong ‘deja vu’ with September 2008 when
Severstal last presented its strategy,” Smolin said. “The
company was then convincing investors of great prospects in the
developed markets in Europe and the U.S. Afterwards, Severstal
had to reshuffle its asset portfolio and is now presenting plans
which may again be based on more bullish market fundamentals
than the ones shared by its global rivals.”  Top 5  In 2015 or 2016, Severstal aims to be among the world’s top
5 steelmakers by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization. “Of course we can’t predict the future,”
Mordashov said. “Investment activities could be significantly
undermined in case of a negative development in the economic
situation. But we don’t see it yet.”  Commodities, down 21 percent in six months, will resume
gains in the long term, according to the CEO. “All commodities
will be in good demand because this demand is based on strong
fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  