-- 
BIS Sees ‘Severe’ Problems If Sovereign Debt Isn’t Risk-Free

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-03T15:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bis-s-caruana-urges-restoration-of-sovereigns-risk-free-status.html
Bank for International Settlements
General Manager  Jaime Caruana  urged European leaders to step up
efforts to solve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis to prevent a
further deterioration of the banking system.  “We need to urgently and forcefully regain fiscal
credibility and take the necessary actions to restore the risk-
free status of sovereigns,” Caruana said at a conference in
Vienna today. “The implications of not having sovereigns as
risk-free are very severe, they will materialize in many
areas,” including banks’ capital requirements.  Concern that European officials will fail to contain the
region’s debt crisis as the U.S. recovery falters wiped more
than $9 trillion from the value of global stocks last quarter.
 Europe ’s finance ministers are meeting in Luxembourg today to
weigh the threat of a Greek default, assess ways to shield banks
from the possible fallout and consider a further boost to the
region’s rescue fund. They’ll also tackle the question of how to
improve economic and fiscal governance.  Caruana, a former council member of the  European Central
Bank , said the “key challenge’ for European authorities is to
break the ‘‘feedback loop between weak public finances and
fragilities in the financial system.’’  ‘Major Fault Line’  ‘‘The loss in market confidence in sovereigns particularly
in the euro area has opened up a major fault line for financial
systems,’’ Caruana said. ‘‘The problem is that these new
situations tend to materialize in funding difficulties, funding
shortages, which again are something that we have to look at
carefully because they are very risky.’’  Government bonds  are classified as assets with no risk
under the global bank rules set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . That means banks don’t have to set aside
capital for them as they have to do for assets such as loans or
corporate securities. This fact, which isn’t changed under
Basel’s new set of rules, contrasts with credit-default swaps
signaling the probability of a Greek sovereign insolvency at
more than 90 percent.  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny, speaking at the
same panel discussion as Caruana, said a nation using the euro
isn’t ‘‘free just to print money” when needed.  “That means a single country is seen more like a corporate
than like a traditional country with its own central bank,” he
said. “This is really a game change that we have seen and that
hasn’t been fully understood by politicians and by other
players.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  