-- 
Bloomberg TOMS Readies Sell-side Fixed Income Firms for Reforms

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-03T14:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bloomberg-toms-readies-sell-side-fixed-income-firms-for-reforms.html

Press Release  More than 100 Firms Select Bloomberg TOMS for FINRA TRACE SP
Reporting
New York -- Bloomberg Trading Solutions executives announced
today that more than 100 sell-side fixed income firms are using
Bloomberg’s  Trade Order Management Solutions  (TOMS) to address
 Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine  (TRACE) guidelines for
securitized products mandated by the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  (FINRA).
The latest FINRA mandates require broker-dealers to report
trades of securitized products such as asset backed securities
(ABSs), mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) and collateralized
debt obligations (CDOs). Bloomberg TOMS helps them address these
requirements by automating all aspects of trade capture,
inventory and risk management and straight-through processing.
The solution also provides integration with the data, news and
analytics on the Bloomberg Professional service.
“Just before the last FINRA mandates  were issued , we saw a big
surge in interest in our TRACE solution. Now, we have more than
100 fixed income dealers up and running on the system,” said
Michael Wood, Global Head of Bloomberg TOMS. “The necessary
functionality for TRACE reporting is in place today, but with
Dodd-Frank and other industry reforms on the horizon, we
continually review future requirements while considering the
workflow of front, middle and back office professionals.”
Patricia Angelone, a Managing Director at Sandler O’Neill +
Partners, LP, said, “The expanded guidelines significantly
increased the volume of transactions we needed to report to
FINRA. We could have engineered our own technical solution, but
the cost and time commitment was significant, while the deadline
was rapidly approaching. Instead, Bloomberg offered a proven
track record and was able to implement a solution on-time with
no issues.”
Bloomberg TOMS was voted by clients as the “Best Sell-Side OMS
provider” for the past two years in a survey by Waters
Technology magazine.
For more information, please contact Eric Lewin, Chief Operating
Officer for the Bloomberg TOMS platform, at  elewin@bloomberg.net 
or +1 212 617 5659. More information about Bloomberg TOMS is
also available online at:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/enterprise/trading_solutions/sell_side_
oms/   About Bloomberg Trade Order Management Solutions (TOMS)
Bloomberg Trade Order Management Solutions, TOMS, delivers
global, multi-asset sell-side solutions for front-end inventory,
trading and middle and back office operations. TOMS helps
organizations manage inventory, market-making, intraday risk and
compliance, P&L, and end-of-day close in a fully customizable
workflow. TOMS enables customers to optimize their trading
workflow, increase global distribution to the markets, manage
risk and compliance, and improve operational efficiency.  Media Contacts  -Vera Newhouse, Bloomberg LP,  vnewhouse@bloomberg.net , +1-212-
617-6420  -Sophie Fischman, Cognito-US,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1-
646-395-6300  -Stuart Macaulay, Cognito-EMEA,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com ,
+44-20-7438-1100  -Anne Karumo, Cognito-APAC,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com , +65-
8112-6409  #<261369.8049913.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 