-- 
BMW Dangles 19% Discounts as China’s Luxury Market Cools: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-03T23:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bmw-dangles-discounts-as-china-luxury-market-cools.html
China  is turning into a buyer’s
market for luxury cars as dealers for  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi offer discounts to
maintain sales as demand cools.  In Beijing, BMW dealerships are giving markdowns of as much
as 19 percent on a 3-series car, while some Mercedes dealers are
selling the  C-Class  Elegance model at 20 percent less than the
suggested retail price, according to  cheshi.com , a pricing guide
tracking more than 3,000 dealers in the country.  BMW, Daimler and Audi, the three largest luxury carmakers,
face slowing sales growth and falling prices in China, the
world’s largest automobile market, as some cities impose driving
curbs and the central bank tightens lending. The growth in
demand for high-end vehicles cooled to 29 percent the first
eight months of this year from 48 percent in 2010, according to
researcher  J.D. Power  & Associates.  “We’re in a cycle of dropping prices,” said Scott Laprise,
a Beijing-based analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets. “Dealers
are worried about sales slowing and are cutting selectively in
the luxury segment. They see where the overall market is going.
They want to be preventive and keep their sales going.”  ‘Aspirational Buyers’  A tightening Chinese economy may cause “aspirational”
buyers, such as those in mid- to upper-level management jobs, to
rethink or delay luxury purchases, Laprise said.  China’s central bank raised  interest rates  five times in
the past year to curb inflation, and the city of Beijing started
restricting the number of license plates available beginning in
January to fight pollution and congestion. The measures are
contributing to slowing car demand, according to analysts at
CLSA, J.D. Power and Booz & Co.  BMW, Daimler and Audi are targeting record sales in 2011 on
growing wealth in China, which overtook  Germany  to become Audi’s
largest market this year. Rising affluence has helped luxury
brands outperform growth in the overall auto market, which the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers forecasts will
slow to 5 percent this year from 32 percent in 2010.  Audi A6L  Even so, high inventory levels for luxury brands are
pressuring Chinese dealers to cut prices, J.D. Power said in a
Sept. 11 report.  “While we expect luxury to outperform the sector, we are
seeing early cracks in sales slowing and discounting,” CLSA’s
Laprise said.  Audi’s A6L, China’s most popular premium sedan last year,
sells for as much as 16 percent below the suggested retail price
in Beijing’s Fengtai district, according to  cheshi.com , which
started tracking car prices in 1999 and says it has provided
consumers data for as many as 7 million cars.  Fiercest Level  Competition in the local passenger vehicle market reached
its fiercest level this year since J.D. Power first started
tracking sentiment in 2003, the researcher said Sept. 29.
Chinese buyers can choose from 471 models across 94 brands, and
two in three consider more than one model before making their
purchase, it said.  Softening demand has cut or eliminated waiting times for
high-end models, and the biggest discounts are offered in large
cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing, according to cheshi.com. In
September 2010, customers waited about three months for entry-
level luxury sedans such as a  BMW 3-series  or Mercedes C-Class,
according to the vehicle pricing guide. Now, there is no wait
for these models.  ‘Cars Are Cheaper’  “Competition in the industry is stiff, and the automakers
are bringing in more vehicles,” He Guo Chang, a 50-year-old
artist in Jiangsu, China, said during a visit to a Mercedes
dealership in Shanghai, where he was shopping for a sport-
utility vehicle. “Luxury cars are cheaper, and there are
vehicles readily available.”  Nine years ago, He had to wait two months for his first
luxury car, a 480,000 yuan ($75,000) Mercedes-Benz  E-Class  sedan,
even after paying 80,000 yuan on top of the sticker price to
speed up its delivery.  Price cuts have gotten steeper in the past year. Consumers
can drive away with a C-Class sedan for 7,000 yuan less than a
year ago, data from cheshi.com shows, even after Daimler
introduced a revamped version in July.  “The market has slowed, but last year’s huge rise was
unsustainable,” said Leon Tang, a 32-year-old executive general
manager at BMW dealer Shanghai Baozen Auto Sales & Service Co.  Even if growth may have peaked, luxury carmakers say they
expect to reach their sales targets this year.  ‘Strong Growth Momentum’  Daimler is on track to meet its goal and expects
“considerable” market growth to continue, said Arnd Minne, a
Beijing-based spokesman for Stuttgart, Germany-based company.  “Mercedes-Benz has maintained its strong growth momentum
during the first eight months of 2011 through sales of 123,590
units, an increase of 41 percent,” Minne said in an e-mail.
“For most of our key models, pricing has remained stable and
consistent.”  Martin Kuehl, a spokesman for Audi in China, said the
carmaker doesn’t have “substantial incentive programs” in the
country. In the first eight months of 2011, the Ingolstadt,
Germany-based company sold 196,534 cars in China, including  Hong
Kong , an increase of 29 percent from a year earlier, he said.  Audi expects China deliveries in 2011 to top 300,000,
exceeding those of Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz.  BMW  BMW is confident it will achieve record sales in China this
year, said Lu Yi, vice president of sales at its local unit.  “It is predictable that the Chinese car market will keep
growing at a comparatively lower rate,” Lu said in an e-mail.
“BMW has maintained a strong and sustainable growth.”  The Munich-based company raised its 2011 profit and sales
forecasts on July 12, citing demand for its vehicles in markets
including China. Sales figures for August nonetheless indicate a
slowdown for the high-end carmakers.  BMW increased deliveries 6 percent for the month, compared
with a 67 percent surge to 169,058 vehicles during the first
eight months of the year, London-based Credit Suisse AG analysts
Arndt Ellinghorst, Erich Hauser and George Galliers wrote in a
Sept. 5 report.  Mercedes-Benz  Mercedes-Benz sales in China and Hong Kong grew 3.2 percent
last month, the company said, down from its 41 percent increase
in the first eight months. Audi sales in China and Hong Kong
rose 26 percent in August, according to the company, compared
with the 29 percent rate for the first eight months.  Luxury vehicle makers will need to expand into less
developed cities to tap the next wave of demand, as wealth in
those regions grow and more developed cities restrict driving,
said  Bill Russo , a senior adviser at Booz.  “Luxury brands concentrated in areas where they have
historic strength, not in the areas that are growing the
fastest,” Beijing-based Russo said. “If you look forward in
time, you have to look to the lower-tier cities for growth.”  --Liza Lin. Editor: Terje Langeland, Kae Inoue.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  