-- 
BOE Says Banks Shouldn't Cut Capital Levels to Aid Credit Supply

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-03T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/boe-says-banks-shouldn-t-cut-capital-levels-to-aid-credit-supply.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee said it would be “inappropriate” for banks to
reduce capital and liquidity levels to stimulate credit supply
as members discussed measures to boost financial stability.  “By reducing ratios at a time of elevated risks, market
participants might well come to see banks as being more fragile,
and they might interpret regulatory advice to cut buffers as a
signal that banks were more fragile than previously had been
thought,” it said in the minutes of its Sept. 20 meeting
published in  London  today.  “This could lead to a rise in funding costs, which might
have the unintended effect of impairing credit availability
further,” the report said.  FPC members had discussed whether they could signal that
they would be “content for ratios to fall if that were driven
by an increase in lending to the non-financial sector.” A
number of members said it would be “premature” for banks to
run down ratios now given the risk that “larger shocks could
lie ahead.”  A report last week from the FPC recommended that banks take
“any opportunity” to strengthen capital and liquidity. That
report said market strains related to the euro-area debt crisis
have dented the outlook for bank earnings and may impede their
ability to strengthen balance sheets.  Greek Threat  Euro-area finance chiefs will meet today in Luxembourg to
assess the threat of a Greek default and weigh how to shield
banks from the fallout as they try to insulate Italy and  Spain 
from the crisis.  Greece  agreed on new austerity measures at the
weekend to help secure a rescue-loan payout and a second
European Union-led bailout.  At the Sept. 20 meeting, while some members said there was
a distinction to be made between capital and liquidity buffers,
others said market perceptions of these were “unlikely to be
separated.” They said that reductions in liquidity buffers
could “undermine the ability of banks to maintain funding and,
thereby continue to support credit supply.”  The interim FPC also said there have been “severe strains
in financial markets” since its last meeting in June.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will
probably vote for no change to policy at this month’s two-day
meeting that ends Oct. 6, according to the median estimate of
economists in two Bloomberg News surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  