-- 
Bank of America Falls Below $6 as Lenders Slide on European Debt Concern

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-03T21:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bofa-falls-below-6-as-weakness-in-europe-economy-adds-pressure.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell below $6
in New York trading for the first time in 2 1/2 years as concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred financial-stock declines on
both sides of the Atlantic.  Bank of America dropped 9.6 percent to $5.53 as  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  slumped 9.8 percent, leading a 4.5 percent slide in the 81-
company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index as of 4:15 p.m.
in New York. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index of 46 firms fell 2.7 percent.  Financial shares are under pressure as European regulators
struggle to quell concern that their lenders may be hurt by the
sovereign debt crisis. Moody’s Investors Service cut long-term
ratings on Bank of America debt last month, saying U.S. support
has become less likely for troubled lenders.  Bank of America’s status as the largest U.S. lender makes
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company sensitive to
slowdowns in the nation’s economy and drops in employment. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  cited those matters at a
Sept. 12 presentation, when he said “the environment will
continue to be difficult.”  The KBW Bank Index has declined 32 percent so far this year
through Sept. 30. Bank of America has been among the worst
performers in that group and is the biggest loser in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  for 2011.  Bank of America last traded at this level in March 2009,
when investors were speculating that some of the biggest U.S.
lenders might be nationalized. Bank of America needed a $45
billion injection of taxpayer money to bolster its finances
during the financial crisis. The bailout has since been repaid.  ‘Systemic Support’  Moody’s didn’t rule out the idea that the government might
help a struggling bank, saying the rating for Bank of America
now incorporates two levels of “uplift due to systemic support,
down from four notches previously.”  Bank of America was unprofitable in three of the four
quarters ended June 30 as Moynihan, 51, booked more than $30
billion in expenses tied to soured mortgages. He’s also agreed
to sell almost $50 billion of assets and preferred stock to
build the company’s financial strength. The bank had about $400
billion of cash at midyear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  