-- 
BofA Analyst Kissane Said to Leave for Credit Suisse

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-03T14:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bofa-technology-analyst-kissane-said-to-leave-for-credit-suisse.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s technology
services analyst, James Kissane, was hired by rival  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to cover the industry, said three people with
direct knowledge of the move.  The analyst left willingly and his departure wasn’t part of
a staff reduction at the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the move was private. Kissane spent 11 years covering technology
firms for New York-based Bear Stearns Cos. before joining Bank
of America as a managing director, the lender said in July 2008.  Kissane covered firms involved in electronic payments
including MasterCard Inc. and Western Union Co. His efforts won
him a spot on Institutional Investors’ 2000 All America Research
Team. He was also the first analyst to recommend avoiding  Visa
Inc. (V)  stock in September 2010, citing the impact of regulation,
and predicted Visa shares would trade at $70 by September 2011.
The firm has gained about 20 percent since that call.  “He’s in a very hot space; we’re seeing talent like him
being sought after by other firms,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a
managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in  New
York . “Financial technology services is an area that’s still
growing, so some people are getting better offers to leave.”  Kissane can’t start at Credit Suisse until his so-called
garden leave agreement with Bank of America expires in several
weeks, one of the people said. Susan McCabe Walley, a
spokeswoman for Bank of America, and Karen Laureano-Rikardsen of
Credit Suisse said they couldn’t comment.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, is trimming staff as costs from soured mortgages rise and
revenue shrinks amid the slowing economy. The bank said in
September it will eliminate 30,000 jobs from retail banking and
will examine institutional and corporate units, which includes
research, in the next phase of Moynihan’s expense-cutting.  An earlier round of cuts announced in August trimmed as
many as 600 positions in the global banking and markets group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 