-- 
BofA, JPMorgan Face $13.5 Billion in FHA Claim Costs, FBR Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-03T20:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bofa-jpmorgan-face-13-5-billion-in-fha-claim-costs-fbr-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are among mortgage servicers that
may face $13.5 billion in costs if the  Federal Housing
Administration  rejects insurance claims on soured loans,
according to FBR Capital Markets Corp.  Denials from the FHA, which insures loans made by banks and
private lenders for home purchases, could be the latest expense
from U.S. housing programs,  Paul Miller , an FBR analyst, said
today in a note to clients. The government said in May that it
could pursue other lenders after suing Deutsche Bank AG for more
than $1 billion, accusing the firm of lying to the FHA while
arranging mortgage insurance.  “The servicing of FHA loans comes with highly technical
regulatory mandated procedures,” Miller said in the note. “The
agency’s narrowly proscribed requirements make it more likely
for the servicers, not the originators, to be tripped up. If the
agency is looking for a way to deny a claim, the servicing
process is an easy target.”  Lenders and servicers have faced surging costs as U.S.-
owned  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  demanded that banks repurchase
defective loans and the U.S. sued 17 firms to recoup losses on
mortgage-backed securities. Bank of America has plunged 59
percent in New York this year, falling below $6 today for the
first time since 2009. JPMorgan and Wells Fargo have dropped 32
percent and 25 percent, respectively.  The FHA also could target lenders, which may result in
$11.5 billion in additional costs, Miller wrote. The agency has
been focusing on “procedural issues,” rather than the quality
of collateral behind mortgages, making it more likely that
servicers will face scrutiny, he wrote.  Delinquent Loans  Borrowers have turned more to FHA-backed loans after the
collapse of subprime lenders, according to Miller. The FHA
covers about 10 percent of all mortgage debt outstanding, up
from 4 percent in 2006. The insurance program has $4.7 billion
in capital against a $1 trillion portfolio, he wrote.  “If housing prices decline further, more loans could
become delinquent and the agency’s capital buffer could creep
toward zero,” Miller wrote. “The agency could turn to
widespread claim denials in order to reduce losses to its
insurance fund.”  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
was asked during a June conference whether he was concerned that
the FHA would reject the lender’s claims.  “I’d say it is a risk,” said Moynihan, 51. “All of us,
as we think about the mortgage business, continue to think about
how you do business with various counterparties if their
behavior can change on you during stress times.”  Jerry Dubrowksi, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America and Tom Kelly of New York-based JPMorgan
declined to comment. Vickee Adams of Wells Fargo, based in San
Francisco, and the FHA’s Tiffany Thomas Smith didn’t immediately
return phone calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 