-- 
BofA, Oracle, Morgan Stanley, AT&T, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-03T12:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bofa-oracle-morgan-stanley-at-t-madoff-in-court-news.html
The lawyer who helped craft a
proposed $8.5 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  over
soured mortgages urged some of her biggest bondholder clients to
oppose a more aggressive stance set forth by a rival attorney,
Bloomberg News Jody Shenn and David McLaughlin report.  Gibbs & Bruns LLP’s Kathy Patrick told clients including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. last year
that they shouldn’t authorize a competing plan to threaten  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the bondholders, for
failing to act adequately on their behalf.  “I want to be able to distance this effort from any
declaration of default so that we can continue to try to work
constructively with Bank of  New York ,” Patrick wrote in the
Aug. 4, 2010, e-mail, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. “We don’t want to be forced to go to war with them if
there is an opportunity to achieve victory by other means.”  Investors including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
local pension funds, along with New York Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman , have criticized the settlement in court, saying
the payout should be larger or that more information is needed
to evaluate it.  The 22 investment firms that hired Patrick and worked with
BNY Mellon may have conflicts of interest that prevented them
from negotiating for more money on behalf of all investors in
the Countrywide bonds, because of “significant ongoing business
dealings with Bank of America,” according to a court filing by
the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago, the Grand
Rapids, Michigan, General Retirement System, and two other
retirement systems.  The settlement covers $424 billion of home-loan securities
created by Countrywide Financial Corp. before Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America bought the firm in 2008. Some of
the bonds involved aren’t owned by the 22 firms, a group that
grew from a total of eight last October and also includes the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and  MetLife Inc. (MET)   The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America’s Countrywide Sued by Sealink Funding  Bank of America Corp.’s Countrywide unit was sued by
Sealink Funding Ltd. in New York over $1.6 billion of
residential mortgage-backed securities the fund purchased
between 2005 and 2007.  Sealink filed the suit against Countrywide in New York
State Supreme Court Sept. 29, seeking unspecified compensatory,
rescissory and punitive damages. Sealink is a fund created to
manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s riskiest assets after the German
lender almost collapsed.  “Countrywide was an entity driven by only one purpose --to
originate and securitize as many mortgage loans as possible
into” mortgage-backed securities “to generate profits for the
Countrywide defendants, without regard to the investors that
relied on the critical, false information provided to them with
respect to the related certificates,” lawyers for Sealink said
in the lawsuit.  Sealink filed a similar suit Sept. 29 in the same court
against JPMorgan Chase & Co. over $2.4 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities purchased between 2005
and 2007.  Dan Frahm, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined to comment.  The cases are Sealink Funding Ltd. vs. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 652679/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan); Sealink Funding Ltd. vs. Bear Stearns &
Co. Inc., 652681/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County, Manhattan.  For more, click here.  Oracle Sued by Pension Fund Over Purchase of Ellison Company  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  was sued by a retirement fund over its
purchase of Pillar Data Systems Inc., a company controlled by
Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison.  The City of Roseville Employees’ Retirement System sued on
behalf of Oracle and named among the defendants Ellison, Oracle
President Mark Hurd and Chairman Jeff Henley, according to
papers filed Sept. 29 in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.
A judge granted the pension fund’s request to file its complaint
under seal.  Oracle said in June that it would buy San Jose, California-
based Pillar in a deal that required no up-front payments and
allowed for an “earn-out” payment that would be made by Nov.
30, 2014, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Ellison owns about 55 percent of Pillar, a provider of
data-storage systems, according to the SEC filing. Under terms
of the deal, the outstanding amount of a $544 million loan
Pillar owes to Ellison will be converted into preferred shares
with a right to dividends accruing at an annual rate of 1.5
percent.  Those shares will be canceled after the transaction closes
in exchange for rights to receive a portion of the earn-out,
according to the SEC filing.  The pension fund’s complaint accuses the Oracle board of
breaching its fiduciary duty in connection with the acquisition,
according to the court filing.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is City of Roseville Employees’ Retirement System
v. Ellison, CA6900, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Blavatnik Made $1.2 Billion in Lyondell LBO, Lawsuit Says  The leveraged buyout of Lyondell Chemical Co. in 2007
benefited the company’s board as well as billionaire  Len
Blavatnik , who gained $1.2 billion, according to a revised
lawsuit brought by the company’s creditors.  Lyondell Chairman Dan F. Smith netted more than $100
million from the $22 billion merger with a unit of Blavatnik’s
Access Industries Holdings LLC, a deal that drove Lyondell into
bankruptcy in 2009, according to the complaint filed Sept. 29 in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “Blavatnik was internally known at Access as the ‘King of
Optionality,’” and turned to Lyondell after previously trying
to buy Huntsman International LLC, a similar petrochemical
company, trustee Edward Weisfelner said in the revised
complaint, brought on behalf of creditors.  Blavatnik and Access took part in a private-equity boom
during which companies were bought with borrowed money, then
drained of cash or sold for a profit, according to the lawsuit.
With  interest rates  low, lending standards loosened and tighter
regulations on public companies following the Enron Corp. and
WorldCom Inc. accounting frauds, investors and their bankers
turned to companies with little debt and stable cash for highly
leveraged acquisitions, and Blavatnik chose Lyondell, the
trustee said.  Blavatnik profited from stock bought just before the
merger, and earnings projections were “refreshed” by Smith to
make them high enough to justify the acquisition price of $48 a
share, according to the lawsuit.  Richard Werder, a lawyer for Blavatnik, said the claim that
his client netted more than $1.2 billion from Lyondell’s merger
with Access’s Basell AF SCA unit is “preposterous.”  Blavatnik is seeking to dismiss some accusations made in
the initial complaint, and has said Luxembourg law can’t be used
to sue over Netherlands-based Basell. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Gerber denied a request to dismiss charges based on
Luxembourg law, saying Sept. 22 that Blavatnik could later file
a motion to dismiss an amended complaint.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors v. Citibank NA, 09-01375, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BofA, JPMorgan Proposed Accord Rejected by California’s Harris  A proposed nationwide settlement with banks including Bank
of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being rejected by
California Attorney General Kamala Harris, who will pursue her
own mortgage investigation in the state that had the second-
highest foreclosure rate in August.  The proposed agreement is “inadequate” and would allow
too few California homeowners to stay in their homes, Harris
said in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “After much consideration, I have concluded that this is
not the deal California homeowners have been waiting for,”
Harris, a Democrat who took office in January, said in the
letter to the U.S. Justice Department and the Iowa attorney
general, who is leading talks for the states.  All 50 state attorneys general last year announced they
were investigating bank foreclosure procedures following
complaints that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  State attorneys general and federal agencies have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers, including Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America and New York-based JPMorgan. They have sought a
settlement that would fund loan modifications and set
requirements for how the banks conduct foreclosures and interact
with borrowers. Harris’s office has been negotiating directly
with the banks on behalf of the states.  Harris’s move comes amid infighting by state attorneys
general over the settlement effort. In August, Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller removed New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman from an executive committee representing the 50
states. Miller said Schneiderman was “working to actively
undermine” the multistate group and encouraged opposition to
the negotiations, according a statement from Miller’s office and
a Sept. 2 letter he wrote.  Schneiderman and other attorneys general who are conducting
their own investigations into bank mortgage practices have
raised concerns about liability releases that would be given to
banks as part of any deal, protecting them from state and
federal lawsuits.  The scope of the release has divided the two sides and is
the main obstacle to reaching a settlement, a person involved in
the talks said. The banks have sought broad releases that would
go beyond claims stemming from their foreclosure practices,
people familiar with the matter have said.  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Wins Dismissal of Pension Fund’s CDO Suit  Morgan Stanley won dismissal of a retirement fund’s lawsuit
over a collateralized debt obligation called the Libertas CDO.  The Employees’ Retirement System of the Government of the
Virgin Islands claimed in the 2009 suit that New York-based
Morgan Stanley defrauded investors by collaborating with ratings
companies to give the CDO an undeserved AAA rating at the same
time it was short-selling almost all of the assets underlying
the notes. The CDO was backed by $1.2 billion in assets,
according to the complaint.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan on Sept. 30
dismissed the investor complaint, which asserted claims for
fraud and unjust enrichment under New York state law.  AAA is the highest rating for fixed-income instruments. The
portfolio was 92 percent residential mortgage-backed securities
and included exposure to more than $130 million in loans from
Option One Mortgage Corp. and $100 million from New Century
Mortgage Corp., both lenders to homebuyers with poor credit
scores, according to the complaint.  The Libertas CDO entered into credit-default swaps that
referenced specific residential mortgage-backed securities.
According to the complaint, the notes collapsed in value after
they were purchased by the Virgin Islands retirement fund.  The case is Employees’ Retirement System of the Government
of the Virgin Islands v. Morgan Stanley & Co., 09-cv-10532, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Puerto Rico  Joins U.S. Complaint Against AT&T, T-Mobile  The U.S. Justice Department amended its lawsuit seeking to
block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
allowing Puerto Rico to join the case.  The government filed its amended complaint in federal court
in Washington Sept. 30. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is the
eighth jurisdiction to sign on to the government’s Aug. 31
complaint, following seven states that joined Sept. 17.  The government’s antitrust suit claims that the merger,
which would make Dallas-based AT&T the biggest wireless carrier
in the U.S. and cut the number of national competitors to three
from four, is anticompetitive and will hurt consumers.  “It is not unusual for state attorneys general to
participate in DOJ merger review proceedings or court filings,”
Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail. “At the
same time, we appreciate that multiple state attorneys general
and hundreds of other local, state and federal officials are
publicly supportive of our merger.”  AT&T continues to work on “parallel paths -- seeking a
solution that addresses the DOJ’s concerns while simultaneously
preparing for trial,” Balmoris said. The company remains
“confident” it will “reach a successful solution,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Mets Ruling Used as Weapon in Fighting Madoff Trustee Suits  A judge’s ruling that slashed a billion-dollar claim
against the owners of the New York Mets last week is already
being used as a weapon by other defendants in lawsuits brought
by the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm.  Safra National Bank of New York asked a bankruptcy judge
Sept. 29 to dismiss a suit by trustee  Irving Picard , citing U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff’s Sept. 27 ruling. Rye Select Broad
Market XL Portfolio Ltd., based in the Cayman Islands,
separately asked a federal district judge to take its Madoff
suit out of U.S. bankruptcy court, citing Rakoff’s decision in
the case against Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz.  Rakoff cut Picard’s claim against the Mets owners to about
$386 million, raising the standard for him to get even that
much. The judge said Picard could try to reclaim only two years
of withdrawals from the Ponzi scheme, while tossing nine of 11
causes of action against Wilpon and Katz.  Safra said in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan that “at a minimum” Picard’s demand for funds it
took from the Ponzi scheme beyond two years should be dismissed.
Rye, in its bankruptcy court filing, said its case involving
swap transactions was similar to the Mets case, and that Rakoff
sided with the defendants saying settlement payments were
protected by so-called safe harbor law.  Rakoff’s two-year ruling could cost Picard about $2.7
billion on all his clawback suits, the trustee said Sept. 29.
Another $3.5 billion of so-called preference payments was “in
question” because of another aspect of Rakoff’s ruling.  Picard will first ask Rakoff for permission to appeal to
the federal appeals court in New York. The appeals court will
then decide whether to review the ruling.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AT&T Asks U.S. Judge to Throw Out Sprint’s Antitrust Lawsuit  AT&T Inc. asked a federal judge to throw out a lawsuit
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  brought seeking to block the company’s
proposed $39 billion purchase of wireless carrier T-Mobile USA
Inc.  AT&T claimed Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless
operator, doesn’t have the right to challenge the merger because
the company is a competitor, not a consumer of wireless
services. The bid to dismiss the case was filed Sept. 30 in
federal court in Washington.  “Sprint knows that competition will be enhanced, not
harmed, by the combination of AT&T and T-Mobile and that a post-
merger AT&T -- freed of spectrum shortages that impair its
ability to offer customers better services at lower prices --
will be a more formidable competitor,” AT&T said in its filing.
“What is good for consumers is bad for Sprint, and that is why
Sprint has filed suit.”  Sprint brought its antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than
a week after the U.S. sued to block the deal, saying the
proposed merger would harm consumers and weaken Sprint’s ability
to compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, arguing a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the
government’s case.  The case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The
government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Wells Fargo, BDO Seidman Settle Lawsuits for $130 Million  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Capital Markets unit and BDO
Seidman LLP settled lawsuits over their roles in the collapse of
Le-Nature’s Inc., a defunct water bottler, for $130 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas P. Agresti approved one piece
of the settlement Sept. 30 at a hearing in Pittsburgh. Under
that deal, Wells Fargo and BDO would pay $50 million to a
trustee for creditors of Le-Nature’s, whose chief executive
officer pleaded guilty to fraud in June.  A group of Le-Nature’s lenders will receive $56 million and
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System $24 million
under another part of the settlement, according to court
documents filed in the Le-Nature’s bankruptcy case in
Pittsburgh. The lenders and Calpers sued Wachovia and New York-
based auditor BDO Seidman in New York state court.  Agresti said he was skeptical of the settlement at the
start of the hearing because of the high legal fees associated
with the case, and changed his mind after listening to trustee
Marc S. Kirschner testify.  “He convinced me, as the judge who came in here with an
attitude to be honest, and he turned me around,” Agresti said
in court Sept. 30.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the settlement.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Le-Nature’s, 06-25454, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  Emanuel Goffer Deserves Up to 63 Months in Prison, U.S. Says  Emanuel Goffer, convicted of insider trading with his
brother  Zvi Goffer , should be sentenced to as much as 63 months
in prison, U.S. prosecutors said.  Emanuel Goffer, who is scheduled for sentencing on Oct. 7
by U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan, asked last
week for less than 46 months, saying he plays a critical role in
raising a 3-year-old son who has developmental problems.
Sullivan sentenced Zvi Goffer to 10 years in prison Sept. 21.  “Goffer’s active participation in this brazen insider
trading scheme warrants a substantial sentence,” the government
said in papers filed Sept. 30, arguing in favor of a sentence
within the range called for by non-binding federal guidelines.  Prosecutors Andrew Fish, Reed Brodsky and Richard Tarlowe
wrote in their brief Sept. 30 that Goffer, who co-founded
Incremental Capital LLC in New York, was responsible for instant
messages and trades intended to provide cover for the illegal
trades. He used an untraceable prepaid cell phone to pass tips
to his brother and helped pay for the bribes to the two former
lawyers who originated the tips, they argued.  Both Goffer brothers were convicted in June along with
Michael Kimelman. A jury found Zvi Goffer guilty of 14 counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud, while Emanuel and Kimelman were
both convicted of one count of conspiracy and two counts of
securities fraud.  Zvi Goffer’s former boss, Galleon co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, was found guilty in May of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in history. His sentencing is
scheduled for Oct. 13.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley to Settle Antitrust Case for $4.8 Million  Morgan Stanley agreed to pay $4.8 million to settle a U.S.
antitrust case over a 2006 derivative contract with KeySpan
Corp. that the Justice Department said probably led to higher
electricity prices in  New York City .  The proposed settlement was filed Sept. 29 in federal court
in Manhattan, the Justice Department said in a statement.
KeySpan last year agreed to pay $12 million to settle.  Morgan Stanley entered into agreements with KeySpan and
Astoria Generating Co., KeySpan’s largest competitor in the
capacity market, that gave KeySpan a financial interest in
Astoria and ensured the company would withhold output from the
market and increase prices, the Justice Department said.  “Morgan Stanley is pleased to have settled this matter
with the Department of Justice,” Mary Claire Delaney, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Morgan Stanley, 11-6875, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Hedge Fund Must Pay Wachovia $2.1 Million Over Swap Dispute  An Isle of Jersey-registered hedge fund was ordered to pay
Wachovia Corp., the bank now owned by Wells Fargo & Co., $2.1
million in a dispute over a credit-default swap.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan
determined in an order Sept. 29 the amount VCG Special
Opportunities Master Fund Ltd. must pay after ruling in
Wachovia’s favor last year. Swain had also ruled against VCG’s
claims that the bank cheated it by forcing it to make higher
margin payments than necessary on the swap.  The court “grants Wachovia’s motion for an award of the
full amount of its claimed damages, attorneys’ fees and
expenses,” Swain wrote Sept. 29.  Swain had ruled last year that Wachovia’s calculation of
its exposure to a collateralized-debt obligation the swap
covered didn’t violate “good faith and fair dealing” by
determining VCG owed more in collateral than the swap’s $10
million value.  The $2.1 million includes $1.02 million Wachovia was owed,
$1.03 million in legal fees, and interest, Swain said.  Steven Mintz, a lawyer for VCG at  Mintz & Gold LLP , didn’t
return a call for comment on the decision.  The case is CDO Plus Master Fund Ltd. v. Wachovia Bank, 07-
11078, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Ecclestone Set for November Testimony in Gribkowsky’s Trial  Formula One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone will
testify in the second week of November in the trial of former
Bayerische Landesbank risk manager Gerhard Gribkowsky over the
sale of the lender’s stake in the racing company, Margarete
Noetzel, a spokeswoman for the Munich Regional Court, said in a
telephone interview Sept. 30  For more, click here.  Court Filings  Dynegy Suit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg Last Week  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , which was sued by Avenue Investments LP over
claims the Houston-based power producer stole assets from
holders of $3.6 billion in notes in a restructuring, was the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  Bondholders led by Avenue Investments seek to undo the
restructuring, calling it a fraudulent conveyance that removed
the company’s coal-fired power plants from the reach of
bondholders and transferred them to shareholders, according to
the lawsuit filed Sept. 21 in New York state Supreme Court.  The case is Avenue Investments LP v. Dynegy Inc.,
652599/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 