-- 
BofA to Shutter Correspondent Lending Unit After Auction Fails

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-03T23:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bofa-to-shutter-correspondent-lending-unit-after-auction-fails.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, will close its correspondent-mortgage
unit after negotiations with a bidder failed, leaving the
employment status of about 1,200 workers in limbo.  The business will be shut by year-end, said Terry Francisco, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America. The company is “actively looking” to find
positions for some of the affected workers, he said.  “We ended our search to find a buyer for that business and
we are moving ahead with winding it down,” Francisco said in a
telephone interview. “We couldn’t find a suitable buyer.”  Bank of America said in August that it planned to sell or
close the correspondent unit, in which the firm buys mortgages
marketed by third-party lenders, and that it was in talks with a
potential bidder. Discussions with Fortress Investment Group LLC
sputtered over price,  American Banker  reported. Gordon Runte, a
spokesman for New York-based Fortress, declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has said he
intends to make Bank of America a “smaller, more focused
company” through assets sales, where possible. The bank is
seeking to trim $5 billion from expenses by slashing about
30,000 jobs over the next few years.  The mortgage business posted a $14.5 billion loss in the
second quarter as investors demanded the repurchase of defective
loans. The bank split the division earlier this year, separating
distressed loans from performing mortgages and new lending.  Correspondent originations accounted for $21.8 billion, or
54 percent, of the bank’s mortgage lending in the second
quarter, the bank said in August. That compares with $27.4
billion, or 46 percent, in the first quarter.  “The key reason we’re taking this action is we want to
focus on our own consumer channels,” Francisco said. “We want
to focus our attention on consumers who choose our brand.”  Bank of America shares have plunged 59 percent this year,
falling below $6 yesterday for the first time since 2009, on
mounting mortgage costs and signs of a global economic slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  