-- 
Pimco's Total Return Fund Has 16% in Treasuries

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-03T13:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bond-bears-piling-into-treasuries-as-yield-forecasts-cut-by-most-since-09.html
Eight months ago  Bill Gross , manager
of the world’s biggest bond fund, said Treasuries “may need to
be exorcised” and cleaned them out of his $245 billion Total
Return Fund. The company then used derivatives to bet against
the debt in March.  Now the Pacific Investment Management Co. fund has 16
percent of its assets in U.S. government securities as the debt
posted the highest quarterly returns in almost three years.  “We’ve rebalanced,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive
officer and co-chief investment officer at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco said in a Sept. 27 radio interview on
Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene  in New York. “The U.S.
benefits the most from a flight to quality.”  With the economy growing slower than forecast, the biggest
bond rally in three years has repudiated Standard & Poor’s Aug.
5 downgrade of the U.S. AAA credit rating and driven yields to
record lows, prompting bears to play catch up in a bid to match
indexes portfolio managers use to measure performance.
Economists have cut their estimates for the 10-year yield in
March 2012 to 2.56 percent, from a projection of 3.75 percent in
July, the biggest cut since January 2009.  A Deutsche Bank AG measure of  asset allocation  among the 20
largest non-indexed funds indicates that since early August they
have pulled close to even with the benchmark Barclays U.S.
Aggregated index weighting of 34 percent in Treasuries.  Additional Demand  The funds Deutsche Bank tracks started “throwing in the
towel” when 10-year yields fell to about 2.25 percent, Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at the bank in New York,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal
Reserve , said in a Sept. 26 telephone interview.  Additional demand for Treasuries from fund managers may
push the 10-year note yield to 1.25 percent, Konstam said.  As the likelihood grew that lawmakers in euro-member
countries would approve an expansion of the European Financial
Stability Facility, Treasury 10-year yields rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, last week as the price of the
benchmark 2.125 percent security due August 2021 fell 24/32, or
$7.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  The two-year yield rose two basis points to 0.24 percent
for the first consecutive weekly increase since April, even as
investors bid $3.76 for each dollar of debt sold at a $35
billion action of the securities Sept. 27, the most in a year.
Bids at the five- and seven-year note offerings the next two
days were the most since May.  Below the Benchmark  Treasury 10-year yields declined five basis points to 1.86
percent as of 9:45 a.m. in  New York . Two-year rates were little
changed at 0.24 percent.  Treasuries returned 6.4 percent in the period from July to
September, the biggest quarterly gain including reinvested
interest since the last three months of 2008, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. Company bonds returned 2.26 percent
and mortgage securities gained 2.32 percent, the indexes showed.
The Barclays U.S. Aggregate bond index gained 3.9 percent for
the quarter.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index declined 14 percent
while gold appreciated 7.8 percent. The dollar rose 5.7 percent
in the last three months against a basket of currencies
including the euro and the yen, according to
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index.  The 1,095 taxable bond mutual funds that invest primarily
in  U.S. debt  markets held an average 12 percent of assets in
Treasuries last quarter, according to Chicago-based Morningstar
Inc. Bets placed on U.S. debt using Treasury futures are not
included in calculating the holdings.  Treasuries’ Role Grows  “It’s been painful to be underweight Treasuries during a
time when you’ve seen an amazing rally,” Daniel Shackelford,
part of a group that manages $15 billion in bonds at T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. in Baltimore, said in a Sept. 27 telephone
interview.  “It’s hard to look at a 10-year note below 2 percent,
which is basically where the Fed is targeting inflation, and say
that that’s a value over a long period of time,” said
Shackelford, whose allocation to Treasuries “hasn’t changed
materially” from 18 percent as June 30. “We’ll be in this low-
growth, stale environment for a while, but I think that favors
corporate balance sheets and mortgages more than it does
Treasuries,” he said.  The role of Treasuries in the Barclays index has grown
during the financial crisis, increasing by 50 percent from 22
percent of the index at the end of 2007, while corporate bonds
have dipped to 19 percent from 20 percent and mortgage
securities have declined to 32 percent from 39 percent, Barclays
data show.  Yields Plunge  “The majority of fixed-income growth since Lehman
collapsed has been in Treasuries, so in many respects Treasuries
have been the only game in town,” Bret Barker, a  money manager 
at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which oversees about $120
billion in assets, said in a Sept. 28 telephone interview.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September 2008.  “We don’t see much value in Treasuries around these
levels, but” investors without the debt face the risk of
missing a rally, Barker said. The firm has about 20 percent of
its bond assets in Treasuries, he said.  The 10-year Treasury yield began its plunge from 2.95
percent on July 28, after a Commerce Department report showed
that the economy almost stalled in the first six months of 2011,
prompting economists to lower their forecasts for growth. Yields
were pulled lower again as investors sought the safety of
Treasuries after S&P lowered the U.S. rating to AA+ from AAA.  Rating Cut, Affirmed  In cutting the U.S. one step, S&P acknowledged that it had
made a $2 trillion accounting error and then cited the weakening
“effectiveness, stability and predictability of American
policymaking and political institutions.” The company, a unit
of New York-based McGraw Hill Cos., since announced that Deven Sharma will step down at the end of the year and will be
replaced by Douglas Peterson as president.  A Bloomberg survey of 1,031 subscribers found that 57
percent of U.S. investors agreed with S&P’s decision, compared
with about 75 percent of those in Europe and  Asia . The quarterly
review showed that 72 percent of U.S. investors found the
nation’s creditworthiness good or excellent, while 45 percent of
Europeans agreed and 42 percent of Asians.  While most of those polled backed S&P’s downgrade, 35
percent of investors said that overall the grades given by
rating firms aren’t reliable. Only 1 percent called them very
reliable, 18 percent fairly reliable and 45 percent just
somewhat reliable.  Budget Deficit  The  U.S. budget deficit  through Aug. 31 was $1.2 trillion,
a month before the end of the fiscal year. The deficit for
fiscal 2010 was $1.3 trillion after a record $1.4 trillion in
2009. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top rankings on Aug. 2, after President  Barack Obama  and
Congress avoided default by agreeing to lift a limit on
borrowing. Investors have bid a record $3 for every dollar of
debt sold at the $1.6 trillion in Treasury auctions this year.  The average 10-year yield forecast for 2011 among primary
dealers, who underwrite the U.S. debt and serve as
counterparties to the Fed in its open-market operations, was
3.65 percent at the start of the year, with a low projection of
2.2 percent by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Demand from funds is likely to help keep yields near record
lows, said Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates investment at
New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages $1.14 trillion in
fixed-income assets.  Fed Purchases  “Treasuries are still an underinvested asset class,”
mostly because the “Fed has hoarded” the securities,
Pellicciaro said in a Sept. 28 telephone interview.  Government securities  made up 27 percent of the $3.4
billion BlackRock Core Bond Fund portfolio as of Aug. 31, up
from 20 percent as of July 31.  The Fed’s decision to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries
through last June prompted money managers to sell them to buy
riskier assets such as stocks, “exactly as the Fed wanted to
see happen,” Pellicciaro said. “There hasn’t been enough time
between these Fed operations for supply to build up enough for
money managers” to boost their Treasury holdings, he said.  The central bank is the largest holder of Treasuries with
$1.7 trillion of them on its balance sheet. The Treasury sold
$2.2 trillion of notes and bonds in 2010.  Yields on shorter-maturity Treasuries fell to record lows
after the Fed said Aug. 9 that it would hold its overnight
lending rate between zero and 0.25 percent through 2013. The 10-
year note yield reached 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23 after the
central bank announced it would buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June, while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less.  Unemployment Rate   With most forecasters suggesting the economic recovery
would gather momentum this year, investors looked to corporate
securities and other riskier assets rather than Treasuries. The
median prediction of 71 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
published Jan. 13 was for 3.1 percent growth in 2011. The median
for 10-year yield in March 2012 was 4 percent, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers in the U.S. face an unemployment rate that
has been at 8.8 percent or higher since April 2009, while
European finance officials have grappled with mounting sovereign
debt problems now affecting  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and
 Italy  since early 2010.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its euro-
region growth forecast for this year and next to 1.6 percent and
1.1 percent, respectively. The Washington-based IMF had
previously forecast the economy to expand 2 percent this year
and 1.7 percent in 2012. The  European Central Bank  forecasts
2012 growth of about 1.3 percent.  The worsening global economic outlook caught many investors
with too few bonds.  “Being so negative on Treasuries has been a very painful
trade,” Mark MacQueen, who oversees bond portfolios at Austin,
Texas-based Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which manages $9.5
billion, said in a Sept. 27 telephone interview. “In uncertain
times like these that is exactly the opposite trade to have on,
and a lot of people were hurt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  