-- 
Bovespa Falls to Lowest in Eight Weeks, Led by Oil Companies

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-03T20:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bovespa-futures-fall-as-commodity-drop-outweighs-inflation-view.html
The Bovespa stock index fell to an
eight-week low, extending its slide after the biggest quarterly
drop since 2008, on concern that a worsening Greek debt crisis
will hurt demand for  Brazil ’s commodity exports.  Oil companies Petroleo Brasileiro SA and OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA followed crude futures lower and contributed
most to the index’s drop. Miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
posted the biggest drop of the gauge after its recommendation
was cut at Morgan Stanley. Gafisa SA led a rout for homebuilders
and Banco do Brasil SA paced losses for banks after Credit
Suisse Group AG and Banco BTG Pactual SA recommended cutting
holdings in the two industries.  The Bovespa fell 2.9 percent to 50,791.53 at 4:15 p.m. New
York time, the lowest closing level since Aug. 8. Sixty-one
stocks dropped on the index while seven advanced. The real
weakened 1.2 percent to 1.9010 per dollar.  “Put simply, the current global outlook offers no reason
whatsoever to be more confident in stock markets,” Carlos Sequeira, an analyst at BTG, wrote in a note to clients today.
“Volatility and risk aversion should continue in the months to
come.”  Global stocks and commodities dropped amid mounting concern
that a Greek default will derail the global economic recovery.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials declined
0.9 percent.  State-controlled oil producer Petrobras dropped 3.6 percent
to 18.41 reais. Billionaire Eike Batista’s OGX sank 4.8 percent
to 10.95 reais. MMX tumbled 7.7 percent to 6.51 reais after
Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation to “equal-weight” from
“overweight.”  ‘Defensive’ Stocks Recommendation  Investors should seek out Brazilian companies least
vulnerable to inflation and a slowdown in global economic growth
as  Europe ’s debt crisis increases trading volatility, according
to Credit Suisse analyst Andrew T. Campbell and BTG’s Sequeira.
They recommended investors buy “defensive” stocks such as
phone operator Telecomunicacoes de  Sao Paulo  SA, known as
Telesp, and meatpacker BRF Brasil Foods SA, while cutting
holdings of banks and homebuilders.  Gafisa slid 5.6 percent to 5.07 reais. Banco do Brasil
declined 3.7 percent to 23.93 reais. Telesp rose 1.5 percent to
49.19 reais while rival Tim Participacoes SA led gains on the
index, advancing 3.5 percent to 9.00 reais.  Economists covering Brazil cut their 12-month inflation
estimate for the first time in six weeks after the central bank
signaled further interest rate cuts won’t stoke inflation.
Consumer prices will rise 5.71 percent in the next 12 months,
according to the median forecast in a Sept. 30 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today. The forecast was
down from a 5.76 percent forecast the previous week that was the
highest this year.  Bear Market   The Bovespa entered a bear market in July after plunging 20
percent from its bull-market peak last year. The measure has
since extended that drop to 30 percent and trades at 9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 9.2 for MSCI Inc.’s
gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Traders moved 6.4 billion reais ($3.4 billion) in stocks in
Sao Paulo yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares to a daily average this year of 6.53 billion reais
through Sept. 14, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  