-- 
Brazil Rate Future Yields Plunge on Report Rousseff Seeking Sub-10% Selic

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-10-03T21:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/brazil-rate-future-yields-plunge-on-report-rousseff-seeking-sub-10-selic.html
Yields on benchmark Brazilian
interest-rate futures contracts fell to the lowest level since
2007 on speculation President  Dilma Rousseff  wants the central
bank to cut benchmark rates to below 10 percent next year.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013, the
most actively-traded in Sao Paulo today, fell 19 basis points,
or 0.19 percentage point, to 10.14 percent at 5 p.m. New York
time. It earlier reached 10.04 percent, the lowest level since
June 2007. The real fell 0.6 percent to 1.8911 per dollar, from
1.8793 on Sept. 30.  Rousseff wants the benchmark rate, known as Selic, to fall
to 9 percent next year, newspaper Estado do S. Paulo reported
yesterday, citing three government officials that it didn’t
identify. The central bank lowered the Selic rate 50 basis
points to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after five straight increases. A
Markit Economics report showed today that  Brazil ’s manufacturing
sector shrank in September, a fourth consecutive contraction.  “You saw a little bit of the market seeing political
pressure from the government on the central bank, so the
speculation that the central bank may accelerate rate cuts
returned,”  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “The external environment continues to be very
negative.”  Lower Rates  Interest rate futures contracts show traders expect the
central bank to lower rates 175 basis points by the end of this
year to 10.25 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Traders expected the rates to fall to about 10 percent by the
end of 2012.  Economists expect the benchmark Selic rate to end this year
at 11 percent, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 30
 central bank survey  of about 100 economists published today.
Their forecast for the 2012 year-end Selic fell to 10.5 percent,
from 10.75 percent the previous week.  Policy makers will carry out  interest-rate  reductions with
caution to keep inflation from affecting consumption by the new
middle class, Estado reported. A government press official in
Brasilia -- who, citing policy, asked not to be named when
contacted by Bloomberg News -- said the government wouldn’t
comment on the report.  Rousseff last week said Brazil must “take advantage of”
the global slowdown to lower its benchmark interest rate, which
is the highest in the Group of 20 nations.  “There is a strong desire to cut interest rates,”  Andre Perfeito , an economist with Gradual Investimentos, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “That is very clear.”  HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index for Brazil’s manufacturing
sector fell to 45.5 in September, the lowest level since April
2009, London-based Markit Economics said today. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Commodities fell to a 10-month low with the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index dropping 0.9 percent. Brazil exports  iron
ore , sugar, soybeans and coffee, among other commodities.  Inflation Forecast  Brazil’s “ideal” interest rate after inflation should be
between 2 percent and 3 percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
told reporters in  Sao Paulo  today.  “What we want are interest rates similar to other emerging
markets,” Mantega told reporters today in Sao Paulo. Mantega
said it was up to the central bank to decide when the
“adequate” time is to cut interest rates, though the
government is doing its part to lower borrowing costs by
containing spending.  Analysts covering Brazil’s economy reduced their forecast
for 12-month inflation for the first time in six weeks,
bolstering the central bank’s policy of reducing interest rates
in the face of a worsening global economic outlook.  Consumer prices will rise 5.71 percent in the next 12
months, according to the economists surveyed by the central
bank. The forecast was down from 5.76 percent the previous week
that was the highest this year.  ‘Moderate’ Adjustments  The bank said last week in its quarterly inflation report
that “moderate” adjustments in the key rate won’t compromise
its goal of bringing inflation to the 4.5 percent target in
2012.  Brazil’s central bank said it accepted 34,150 bids for
currency swap contracts from 106,975 offered today, according to
a statement published on the central bank’s website. The central
bank said it will auction as many as 90,525 currency swap
contracts tomorrow. The results will be announced after 10:45
a.m. New York time.  The central bank entered the  derivatives market  on Sept. 22
for the first time in two years to prop up the currency after it
reached a two-year low of 1.9549.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  