-- 
Breast Cancer Deaths Decline in U.S. at Slower Pace for Low-Income Women

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-03T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/breast-cancer-deaths-decline-in-u-s-at-slower-pace-for-low-income-women.html
The highest  breast cancer  death rates
have shifted from affluent women to the poor, as the overall
decline in mortality has been slower among those with less
access to screening and treatment, according to a report.  About half of poor women aged 40 and older had a mammogram
within the past two years, compared with 73 percent of women who
were on a more stable financial footing, according to a  report 
by the  American Cancer Society .  The number of American women diagnosed each year with
breast cancer is holding steady, while deaths from the disease
continue a decline started in 1990, the report said. However,
poor women aren’t seeing the same improvement in survival as
wealthier women, the report found. While death rates were
highest among affluent women until the early 1990s, the pattern
has shifted.  By 2003 to 2007, women living in poor areas had a
7 percent higher risk of breast cancer death, the report said.  “In general, progress in reducing breast cancer death
rates is being seen,” said  Otis Brawley , chief medical officer
of the cancer society, in a statement. “However, not all women
have benefitted equally. Poor women are now at a greater risk
for breast cancer death because of less access to screening and
better treatments. This continued disparity is impeding real
progress against breast cancer.”  An estimated 230,480 women will be diagnosed with breast
cancer in 2011, accounting for one in every three tumors
detected, the annual Breast Cancer Statistics report found.
About 39,520 women will die from the disease, with mortality
rates falling most quickly for women under age 50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  