-- 
Browder Targets France, Germany After U.K ‘Russian Visa Ban’

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-03T18:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/browder-targets-france-germany-after-u-k-russian-visa-ban-.html
Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.
founder  William Browder  is lobbying  Germany  and  France  after the
U.K. reportedly followed a U.S. ban on Russian officials over
the death of anti-corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitsky.  Browder, whose London-based fund was once the largest
foreign portfolio investor in Russia, said he believes the U.K.
has barred 60 Russian officials linked to Magnitsky’s death in a
Moscow prison in 2009.  The British weekly,  the Observer , reported yesterday that
the U.K. had secretly imposed the visa ban, citing former Europe
Minister Christopher Bryant as saying he was informed of the
measure by Immigration Minister Damian Green. The Home Office
declined to comment on individual cases, adding in an e-mailed
statement: “We can refuse a visa when the individual’s
character, conduct or associations makes entry to the U.K.
undesirable.”  The U.K. government hasn’t changed its policy and makes
visa decisions on a case-by-case basis, a spokesman for the
British Embassy in Moscow said today by phone, declining to be
identified in line with Foreign Office rules.  Browder accuses the Russian authorities of a whitewash over
Magnitsky’s death, and has been pressing Western governments to
sanction officials who played a role in it. President  Barack Obama ’s administration in July implemented a visa ban on a
number of Russian officials after U.S. senators proposed
legislation to punish Russian human-rights abusers.  ‘Frightening Punishment’  Browder is now seeking to persuade 10 governments in the
European Union, including Germany, France,  Poland , the
Netherlands and the  Czech Republic , to follow suit. “I am
confident that these 10 countries will do what’s required in the
end,” he today said in a phone interview from The Hague, where
he was meeting with government officials.  Visa bans are the best way to put pressure on officials
guilty of human-rights abuses, said former Russian Deputy Prime
Minister Boris Nemtsov, one of the leaders of the opposition
Parnas party. “It’s a frightening punishment for corrupt
bureaucrats who send their children to study abroad and have
property and bank accounts there,” he said by phone in Moscow.  Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Boldyrev said
the authorities were seeking clarification from the U.K.  Russia ,
which threatened to retaliate against the U.S. visa ban, has had
strained ties with the U.K. since the 2006 murder of dissident
ex-KGB agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in  London . U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron made the first visit to Russia by a British leader
in five years last month.  Rights Council  President Dmitry Medvedev’s human rights council in July
said Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage who was 37 when he died
of heart failure, was probably beaten to death in prison.  Magnitsky, who suffered from gallstone disease, was
transferred from one Moscow prison to another that lacked the
facilities to conduct the medical tests he required, according
to the council. The lawyer said he was abused and denied medical
care to force him to drop allegations of a $230 million  tax
fraud  by Interior Ministry officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  