-- 
Buffett: Wall Street ‘Doesn’t Feel Loved’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/buffett-says-obama-s-under-fire-from-wall-street-that-doesn-t-feel-loved-.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
investor, said Wall Street bankers don’t believe they’ve been
embraced by President  Barack Obama  and are consequently
withholding their support.  “Wall Street certainly doesn’t feel loved,” Buffett told
 Charlie Rose  in a Sept. 30 interview broadcast on PBS. “I think
there was some rhetoric that contributed to that.”  Buffett, 81, is seeking to draw backers for Obama’s re-
election and planned to attend a fundraiser for the president
last week in New York. Obama has been accused of “class
warfare” by Republicans including House Speaker  John Boehner 
for seeking to close the deficit by raising taxes on the
wealthy. Obama has asked Congress to enact a so-called Buffett
rule, requiring those earning $1 million or more a year to pay
taxes at a rate similar to that of middle-income Americans.  “You take the number of people making a million dollars or
over on  Wall Street  and you can fill a very large auditorium,”
Buffett said. “I think the president felt, ‘My God, look at all
the things we did for business, and they’re unappreciative, and
I’m all that stands between them and the pitchforks.’”  Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., did at least five television interviews Sept. 30
on topics ranging from Berkshire’s investments and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s struggles to politics and Europe’s debt crisis.  Berkshire added about $4 billion in common stock to its
investments during the third quarter, Buffett said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. That compares with $3.4 billion
in the second quarter and was the most since Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire plowed a net $3.6 billion into stocks during the
third quarter of 2008, the height of the global credit crisis.  ‘Ready to Buy’  “We’re ready to buy lots of things,” Buffett said in the
interview with Betty Liu on the floor of the  New York  Stock
Exchange. Berkshire’s program to purchase its own stock “won’t
keep us from investing billions and billions and billions in
plants and equipment, in new acquisitions.”  Berkshire, which had a $67.6 billion equity portfolio as of
June 30, announced its stock-buyback plan Sept. 26. It is the
firm’s first repurchase in four decades.  “If the market is weak, we could buy a lot of stock,”
Buffett told Charlie Rose, according to a transcript of the
interview. “We’ll buy the stock if we think we’re doing a favor
for the people that are staying in the boat.”  Berkshire is focusing on stocks after its cash hoard
swelled and  interest rates  remained near record lows. Equities
markets around the world fell during the third quarter amid
speculation that  Europe  will fail to contain its sovereign debt
crisis and that the U.S. economy will weaken.  Bank of America  Buffett, who invested $5 billion in Bank of America, said
that troubles at the biggest U.S. lender by assets will take
“much longer” to clean up.  “The bank has a wonderful underlying business -- it’s got
lots of problems,” Buffett told Liu in the interview.  “The bet is, is Brian going to get rid of those
problems?” Buffett said, referring to Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51. “It won’t take six
months or a year; it will take much longer than that even. But
the underlying business is doing fine.”  Bank of America, which has lost more than half its market
value this year as mortgage-related costs climb, pays Berkshire
$300 million annually in preferred stock dividends and gave the
company warrants to purchase 700 million shares of common stock
for $7.14 each. The deal was announced on Aug. 25, two weeks
after Moynihan said his firm had enough capital.  Moynihan, who has been in charge of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank since the start of 2010, should be given
time to turn the firm around, Buffett said.  European Debt Crisis  Berkshire sold most of its European sovereign-debt holdings
about a year and a half ago, the billionaire said in an
interview with CNBC. The firm isn’t interested in helping to
bail out lenders on the continent, he said.  “They need capital in their banks, in many of their
banks,” Buffett said in the Bloomberg interview. “We would not
be a good prospect,” he said, adding that Berkshire has
received “very, very few” calls about putting capital into
European banks.  A German reinsurance unit still holds some bonds from that
nation, and Berkshire is “fine” with the investment, he said.
As for the  U.S. economy , Europe’s debt crisis is bound to have
some fallout, he said.  European and U.S. stock markets have sagged on concern that
 Greece  may default on its debts, setting off a chain reaction
that could engulf other nations and their banks. Berkshire has
made bullish derivative bets on global equity markets including
contracts tied to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, and Buffett has
traveled to Europe in search of acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  