-- 
Bunds to Sustain Allure as Europe Hunts for Debt Crisis Cure: Euro Credit

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-03T13:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/bunds-sustain-allure-as-europe-hunts-crisis-panacea-euro-credit.html
Bunds will retain their haven allure
as investors bet German approval of expanded powers for the euro
area’s rescue fund will be no panacea for the debt crisis.  German  government bonds , perceived to be among the safest
debt securities, have handed investors the best quarterly return
in more than two decades, exceeding those when  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history. The
gains pushed 10-year yields down to a record 1.636 percent on
Sept. 23, prompting analysts to cut their fourth-quarter yield
forecasts for the AAA rated securities.  “Bunds are extremely liquid and they are a safe haven,”
said Alex Johnson, who helps oversee $47 billion as London-based
head of  portfolio management  at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts.
“It’s not obvious what the catalysts are going to be for a
sustained sell-off.”  Bund yields have dropped after bailouts for  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  and following purchases of the most indebted
nations’ bonds by the  European Central Bank . Banks obliged to
participate bought all the 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) of
notes Germany sold on Sept. 28 as other investors didn’t enter a
single bid, according to six people with the knowledge of the
sale.  Italy, Spain  While borrowing costs for Italy and Spain have declined
from euro-era records with the ECB’s help, the two nations still
must sell about 55 billion euros to 60 billion euros of bonds
this year, underpinning demand for German debt, said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .  “Bunds will still be the place to be,” said Schnautz.
“We have many hurdles to clear in terms of event risks, and we
have supply coming from  Italy  and Spain.”  Commerzbank lowered its year-end forecast for 10-year
German bond yields to 1.60 percent, from a previous prediction
of 2.80 percent, Schnautz said on Sept. 30. The 10-year yield
fell seven basis points to 1.82 percent at 2:25 p.m. in London,
while two-year yields were six basis points lower at 0.49
percent.  Europe’s politicians are putting together a 159 billion-
euro plan for Greece after a 110 billion-euro bailout package
agreed in May last year failed to bring down that nation’s
borrowing costs. Bunds fell last week as lawmakers approved
giving a euro-region rescue fund the power to buy bonds in the
secondary market, enable bank recapitalizations and offer
precautionary credit lines.  Uncertainty Remains  Germany ’s 10-year yields, which fell more than 110 basis
points to 1.91 percent in the three months through Sept. 30,
will probably end the year at 2.20 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists that in August was predicting
2.65 percent for December. Yields may stay near 2 percent for
the rest of 2011, said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  “We still have a lot of uncertainty and that will keep the
yield at a low level,” said Linowsky. “It depends a bit on the
political process, and October will be critical.”  Demand for the relative safety of bunds is likely to be
supported as  Europe ’s economic outlook deteriorates. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last month the economy faces
“intensified downside risks” as the central bank cut its
growth forecasts for this year and next.  Balance Budget  Global investors say a default by the Greek government is
inevitable, with 93 percent predicting the nation will
eventually fail to meet its debt commitments, a Bloomberg survey
published last week found. Greek bonds have tumbled as Europe’s
policy makers wrangle over the terms of the new bailout and as
credit-default swaps signal the probability of non-payment is
more than 90 percent.  German bonds returned 7.9 percent in the third quarter, the
most since at least 1986, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Italian bonds made a 4.1 percent loss, even as
the ECB bought the securities, while Spanish bonds handed
investors a 2.5 percent return, the indexes show. Bunds have
made 7.8 this year, set for the biggest rally since making 12
percent three years ago.  The slump in Italy’s bonds pushed the 10-year yield to a
euro-era record 6.40 percent on Aug. 5, prompting a vow from
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to balance the budget and the
ECB to start buying the bonds. That helped push the yield to
4.87 percent by Aug. 18. Still, the nation’s borrowing costs
jumped at subsequent auctions amid speculation of a Greek
default.  Outstanding Debt  Italy had 1.6 trillion euros of outstanding debt as of Aug.
31, according to its treasury’s  website , making it Europe’s
biggest national bond market. It must pay 88 billion euros to
redeem bonds and bills maturing in the second half of 2011 and
291 billion euros in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Spain  is scheduled to hold an election next month.
Polls suggest voters will ditch the ruling Socialist party.  “The market is not looking at the fundamental data, it is
focused on the debt crisis and political positions,” said
Werner Fey, a  fund manager  at  Frankfurt  Trust Investment GmbH in
Frankfurt, which oversees the equivalent of 6.5 billion euros of
fixed-income assets. “At the moment there is a flight to
quality and bunds are extremely expensive. We will see bunds
trading sideways, with some fluctuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 