-- 
Canada Dollar Gains as U.S. Manufacturing Rises, Damping Economic Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-03T21:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/canada-s-dollar-advances-from-one-year-low-on-government-s-fiscal-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth day
versus its U.S. counterpart as concern that much of the world’s
economy is already in recession sent crude oil to a close below
$77 a barrel and U.S. stocks lower.  The currency still advanced against most of its major
counterparts after a report showed manufacturing accelerated
last month in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner. The
loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, dropped to the weakest
level versus the U.S. dollar in a year on concern the global
economy is veering toward another liquidity crisis.  “Call it a continuation of the trend that has been
building momentum in conjunction with the bearish price action
in the three biggest influences over the Canadian dollar --
equities, commodities and volatility,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada 
in Toronto.  The Canadian currency dropped 0.4 percent to C$1.0547 per
U.S. dollar at 5:11 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0503 on Sept. 30.
It touched C$1.0548, the weakest level since Sept. 3, 2010. One
Canadian dollar buys 94.81 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9 percent and crude
oil futures dropped 3 percent to $76.40 a barrel in  New York .  Speculators slashed bets on a rally in commodity prices by
the most in almost three years after copper, crude oil and corn
sank deeper into bear markets and reports of slowing growth
reduced the chances of shortages.  Futures Bets  Money managers cut combined net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 26 percent in the week ended Sept.
27, data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.
Wagers on gold, silver, sugar and soybeans tumbled as the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodities gauge fell for a fourth week,
extending its quarterly drop to 12 percent. The index has
retreated more than 20 percent since reaching an almost three-
year high in April, the common definition of a bear market.  The loonie traded at 76 on a 14-day relative strength index
against the dollar, rising above 70 for a third straight day. A
reading above 70 signals that an asset may be due to reverse
direction.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, according to the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s data. A level of 50 is the dividing line
between growth and contraction. Economists forecast the measure
to fall to 50.5, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Economic Uptick  Construction spending in the U.S. unexpectedly rebounded in
August, propelled by the biggest jump in state and local
government outlays in more than two years. The 1.4 percent gain
reversed the revised 1.4 percent drop in July, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The Canadian dollar extended its gain against the euro as
Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mario Draghi , who will
succeed European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  next
month, said a lack of confidence may be among the reasons for
lenders’ “funding problems.”  The loonie added 1.2 percent to 1.3895 per euro.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said the
government’s fiscal projections for the current year remain
consistent with forecasts even amid indications the economy has
slowed. The government has benefited from higher  tax revenue 
from personal income taxes.  Budget Outlook  The federal deficit widened in July to C$1.6 billion ($1.53
billion), from C$473 million a year earlier, according to a
Sept. 30 statement from the finance department.  Flaherty released a fiscal plan in June that seeks to
balance the budget by 2014 through government operating cost
cuts of up to C$4 billion annually, and by closing tax
loopholes. Canada projects a deficit of C$32.3 billion this
year, compared with C$36.2 billion for the fiscal year that
ended in March.  Government bonds  advanced, sending the yield on benchmark
10-year bonds higher by nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 2.06 percent. Yields touched a record low 1.994
percent on Sept. 23. The 3.25 percent security, which rose 80
cents to C$110.33.  Traders await data releases this week to determine the
extent to which the global slowdown is affecting Canada’s
economy.  Jobs Report  The nation’s employers added 15,000 jobs in September after
cutting 5,500 positions in August, according to the median of 23
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would mean employers added
16,500 jobs in the third quarter, compared with 109,000 in the
second quarter and 82,800 in the first three months of the year.
 Statistics Canada  is due to report the employment data on Oct. 7
at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  Canada’s dollar depreciated 6.9 percent in September, the
most since October 2008 as concern the global economy is sinking
back into recession spurred a haven rally in the U.S. currency
and dimmed the outlook for commodity prices. The currency also
registered weekly and quarterly losses.  “The Canadian dollar is a little cheap at this point,”
 David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “But if they don’t resolve the European Union
situation quickly, things could get a lot uglier. It’s a brave
person who would really want to jump in and go long the Canadian
dollar at this point against the  U.S. dollar .” A long is a bet
an asset may gain in value.  Futures traders increased their wagers that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission figures show. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline
in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain -- so
called net shorts -- was 20,550 on Sept. 27, compared with net
shorts of 5,458 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  