-- 
Chevron Uses Solar-Thermal Steam to Extract Oil in California

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/chevron-using-solar-thermal-steam-at-enhanced-oil-recovery-plant.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. oil company, began extracting crude from a southern
 California  field using steam produced by a 29-megawatt solar-
thermal power plant.  BrightSource Energy Inc.’s system uses mirrors to focus
sunlight on a boiler at Chevron’s Coalinga, California, enhanced
oil recovery project, the solar company said in a statement
after extraction began today.  Solar-thermal technology companies such as BrightSource are
targeting industrial users in the oil-recovery and food-
processing industries as customers as well as power generation.  Mining and metals processing are also very promising,
especially in remote areas where power can also be generated
along with heat, Charlie Ricker, BrightSource senior vice
president of business development, said today in an interview.  The company is exploring the possibility of more plants
with Chevron and others, Ricker said.  “This technology has the potential to augment gas-powered
steam generation and may provide an additional resource in areas
of the world where natural gas is expensive or not readily
available,” Chevron Technology Ventures President Desmond King
said today in a company statement. The project produces about
the same amount of steam as one gas-fired steam generator,
Chevron said.  7,644 Mirrors  The Coalinga plant consists of 3,822 mirror systems, or
heliostats, each with two 10-foot (3-meter) by 7-foot mirrors
mounted on a 6-foot steel pole focusing light on a 327-foot
solar tower. Steam created by the heat is fed into the oil
reservoir, making it easier to bring to the surface. The system
began generating steam in August, Kristin Hunter, a spokeswoman
for Oakland, California-based BrightSource, said today in an e-
mail.  Areva SA’s Areva Solar, Seville, Spain-based Abengoa SA,
Erlangen, Germany-based  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and Burbank,
California-based eSolar Inc. are competing with BrightSource
with their own solar-thermal technology.  Glasspoint Solar Inc., based in Fremont, California, makes
solar steam generators for the oil and gas industry using
mirrored troughs inside of  glasshouse enclosures  to protect the
mirrors.  $16.3 Billion Market  Enhanced oil recovery, or EOR, fits very well with solar
temperatures, Glasspoint Vice President John O’Donnell, said
today in an interview.  Some 32 percent of California’s industrial and commercial
gas use is for EOR as its use grows in the U.S. and all over the
world, O’Donnell said. The state produces about 40% of its oil
using EOR and in a few years that will grow to 60%, he said.  The company can produce heat for EOR for about $3 per
million British thermal units, compared with about $4 for a
comparable natural-gas plant in the U.S. and between $10 to $12
for other conventional solar thermal technologies, O’Donnell
said. “We are the only ones below natural gas right now in the
U.S.”  According to BCC Research, the global market for enhanced-
oil-recovery technologies was $4.7 billion in 2009 and is
expected to grow at a 5-year compound annual rate of 28 percent,
reaching $16.3 billion in 2014, BrightSource said in its
statement.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. oil company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Ehren Goossens} in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  