-- 
China Rail Falls to Record Low On Project Delays

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-03T03:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/china-rail-falls-to-record-low-on-project-delays.html
China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , builder of
two-thirds of the nation’s tracks, tumbled to a record low in
 Hong Kong  trading after 21st Century Business Herald said that
80 percent of China’s rail projects have been put on hold.  The construction company dropped as low as HK$1.48, the
lowest intraday price since it began trading in December 2007.
It was down 3.8 percent at HK$1.52 at 10:42 a.m. China Railway
Construction Corp. fell as much as 5.4 percent and trainmaker
CSR Corp. dropped as much as 9.6 percent.  The rail projects have been suspended pending clarification
of government policies and because banks have stopped issuing
loans on concerns about repayments, 21st Century Business said
on Oct. 1, citing an unidentified person close to the railway
ministry. The government has already slashed spending on railway
construction following a fatal high-speed train crash in July,
causing  China  rail stocks to tumble.  “Obviously, the news highlighted by 21st Century is not
good,” said Karen Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The slump also reflects “negative sentiment toward
the entire fixed-asset investment segment.”  The report didn’t elaborate on which policies were in need
of clarification. The railway ministry, which had 2.09 trillion
yuan ($328 billion) of liabilities as of the end of June, last
week delayed a 20-billion yuan bond until the middle of October.
It last sold bonds on Sept. 7, when it issued 5 billion yuan of
five-year notes priced to yield 5.93 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield gap between the ministry’s one-year notes and
government debt has risen almost fourfold this year to 219.42
basis points, according to Chinabond data.  Calls to the ministry, Beijing-based China Rail Group,
China Rail Construction, CSR Corp. and trainmaker China CNR Corp.
were all unanswered today. China began a weeklong national
holiday today.  Zoomlion, Lonking  China Communications Construction Co., which builds
railways and ports, dropped as much as 8.4 percent.
Construction-equipment maker Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Development Co. declined as much as 10
percent and  Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) , which also makes building
gear, fell as much as 9 percent.  China Rail Group, China Rail Construction and CSR Corp.
have all fallen more than 44 percent since the July 23 bullet-
train crash near Wenzhou that killed 40 people. China slashed
spending on railway construction 50 percent in August as it
investigated the crash.  --Billy Chan and Feiwen Rong with assistance from Marco Lui in
Hong Kong. Editors: Neil Denslow,  Garry Smith   To contact the reporters on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 