-- 
Hanlong Agrees to Buy Sundance Resources After Raising Offer

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-04T05:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/china-s-hanlong-agrees-to-pay-1-3-billion-for-rest-of-sundance-resources.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group agreed to
sweeten its offer for the rest of Sundance Resources Ltd. to
A$1.36 billion ($1.3 billion) to gain control of the Australian
company’s iron ore project in West  Africa .  Hanlong , based in  Chengdu ,  China , won acceptance after
raising its July 18 offer by 14 percent to 57 Australian cents a
share, valuing the Perth-based company at A$1.65 billion,
Sundance said today in a statement. The bid is priced at 33
percent more than Sundance’s close on Sept. 30.  Buying Sundance will give Hanlong control of the $4.7
billion Mbalam rail, port and mine project straddling the border
of Cameroon and Republic of Congo. Hanlong, which has
investments in highway and power projects, said last year it
will invest as much as A$5 billion in resource assets to feed
China’s demand for commodities.  “A group like Hanlong is the ideal one” to develop the
project,  Gavin Wendt , a mining analyst and founder of Mine Life
Pty. said by phone. “They have a long-term view when it comes
to resources -- they have a need for commodities not just now
but 10, 20, 30 years down the track.”  Sundance climbed 5.8 percent to 45.5 cents at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading. Hanlong is also bidding to buy
Australian uranium developer Bannerman Resources Ltd. for A$143
million.  Resources Search  China, the world’s biggest metals buyer, is snapping up
deposits in Africa, including  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
rated the third-least desirable place to operate a mine, amid a
shortage of new copper discoveries.  “The Chinese aren’t as concerned about geopolitical
risk,” Warwick Grigor, an equity analyst at BGF Equities Pty
Ltd, said by phone from Sydney. “They are prepared to make a
much longer term commitment.”  Hanlong’s offer values Sundance at about 7.2 times the
value of its total assets, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with the median of 1.75 times of 10 similar deals
since 2004.  There have been $18.5 billion of resources deals by Chinese
companies since the start of the year, compared with $20.8
billion for all of last year.  “The substantial financial support needed for this
integrated port, rail and mine project will now be available,”
 George Jones , chairman of Sundance said in the statement.
Hanlong is Sundance’s biggest shareholder with a 17.8 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG acted as an adviser for Sundance and Bank of America
Corp. advised Hanlong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  