-- 
China Says U.S. Risks Trade War With Bill Targeting Currency

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-04T18:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/china-currency-measure-sending-a-message-advances-in-senate.html
China  said the U.S. risks triggering
a trade war through legislation before the Senate that would
punish the Asian nation for what lawmakers say is the
undervaluation of its currency, the yuan.  The People’s Bank of China said it “regrets” the Senate
vote yesterday to consider the bill, and the Foreign Ministry
said the measure would violate World Trade Organization rules,
in statements today on their websites. The bill is aimed at
letting American businesses seek duties on Chinese imports to
make up for the weak currency.  The 79-19 vote allows the Senate to begin considering the
bill introduced by Democrat Sherrod Brown of Ohio and  Charles
Schumer  of  New York  with co-sponsors including Republicans
Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina  and  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama .
The legislation is opposed by business groups, such as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, that say it may cause a trade dispute.  “The timing of such an incident is unfortunate with the
current global environment,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch who previously worked
at the  World Bank . “If there is a trade war, it’s no good for
anybody.”  Opponents say they worry that protectionism and trade
conflicts may stall a global economic recovery already weighed
down by the slumping U.S. housing market and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis. Global stocks began October by extending a third-
quarter slump that was the biggest since the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Senate Vote  Passage of the legislation “may lead to a trade war that
we don’t want to see,” the Chinese central bank said, saying
the measure wouldn’t solve U.S. issues of insufficient savings,
a trade deficit and an elevated jobless rate. It also said the
measure could “seriously affect the ongoing currency-mechanism
reform in China.”  Schumer, who has proposed similar measures over the past
six years, failed previously to get an up-or-down Senate vote on
such a bill. Supporters say it has a better chance of passing
the Senate this time because China, the world’s second-biggest
economy after the U.S., has become a target for lawmakers
frustrated by the widening trade deficit with that nation and
domestic unemployment stuck at 9.1 percent.  “We have been in a trade war for a decade,” Brown said
following yesterday’s vote. “It’s long overdue.”  ‘Well Beyond’  House Speaker  John Boehner  criticized the legislation
today, saying it is “well beyond what Congress ought to be
doing.” While Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, said he understands
the concern over China’s currency, he said, “I am not sure this
is the way to fix it.”  The administration of President Barack Obama is reviewing
the legislation, White House press secretary Jay Carney told
reporters aboard Air Force One today.  “We share the concern of members about the valuation of
the Chinese currency and the need to appreciate the value of the
Chinese currency,” Carney said. “We also are concerned that
any action that might be taken would be effective and consistent
with our international obligations.”  Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said the
House version had 225 supporters and urged Boehner to let
members vote. Leadership “should not get in the way” of
efforts to produce U.S. jobs.  “It’s about rules,” Levin told reporters. “China isn’t
playing by the rules when they rig their currency.”  ‘Sending Message’  The Senate “is sending a message to China,” Schumer said
following the vote yesterday. “The only time China moves is
when they feel someone might do something to force their hand.”  In addition to allowing U.S. companies to seek tariffs on
Chinese imports, U.S. exporters would benefit from an
appreciation in the yuan because it would make American goods
less expensive relative to Chinese goods.  “What needs to stop is China cheating when it comes to
trade,” Graham said following the vote. Their policies “are
killing the ability of U.S. manufacturers to compete in the
world market.”  The bill would mandate that the Treasury Department
identify misaligned currencies, rather than finding that a
currency was manipulated, as is currently required. Governments
that are undervaluing their currencies and don’t take corrective
action would face penalties including increased dumping duties,
a ban on federal procurement in the U.S. and ineligibility to
receive financing form the  Overseas Private Investment
Corporation .  ‘Bipartisan Vote’  “The strong, bipartisan vote should send a signal to
China, as well as to the White House and  House Republicans , that
voters are demanding action to defend American jobs and a level
playing field for U.S. businesses,”  Scott Paul , the executive
director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, said in a
statement.  The Obama administration considers China’s currency
“substantially undervalued” and is reviewing the legislation,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said on Sept. 28.  China’s trade imbalance with the U.S. isn’t due to the
value of the yuan, China’s bank said. The real  exchange rate  has
“significantly appreciated and moved near to a balanced
level,” the central bank said, adding that flexibility in the
currency will continue to increase in an “active, gradual and
controllable manner.”  The yuan will appreciate by 4 percent to 5 percent against
the U.S. dollar this year,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the China
central bank, said today at a conference in Santiago.  Business Support  More than 50 U.S. business groups, including the Chamber of
Commerce, the Financial Services Roundtable and the  National
Retail Federation , write to Senate leaders on Sept. 21 urging
them not to act on Schumer’s bill. The remedies would probably
result in retaliatory action by China, hurting U.S. businesses,
and duties would only shift production and jobs to other low-
cost manufacturing countries rather than the U.S., the groups
said. The Financial Services Forum sent Obama a letter today
urging him to oppose the legislation.  China “would clearly have a negative reception to our
imports to China,” John Frisbie, the president of the U.S.-
China Business Council, said yesterday on Bloomberg Television.
“This bill would do more harm than good.”  Bilateral and multilateral discussions with China would
benefit U.S. jobs more than tariffs, he said. Other developing
nations with low wages, such as  Vietnam , would be the only
winners if the Senate legislation were to become law, he said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is a
member of the U.S.-China Business Council.  Too Slow  The bill’s supporters say China has been too slow to
change. China’s currency policies have cost more than 2.8
million U.S. jobs since 2001, and the yuan’s undervaluation
gives Chinese companies an unfair advantage against U.S.
manufacturers, Schumer said at a news conference on Sept. 22.  The yuan has appreciated 5.2 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. China limits currency conversions for investment
purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance and
preserve the competitiveness of China’s exports.  The bill is S. 1619.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  