-- 
China’s Wenzhou City Caps Private Lending Rates to Curb Risk

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-03T08:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/china-s-wenzhou-city-limits-private-loan-company-s-lending-rates.html
China ’s Wenzhou city set an upper
limit on the interest rates that private non-bank lenders can
charge borrowers in an effort to control risk in the city’s
banking industry, the government said on its  website .  Private non-bank institutions can only lend at an  interest
rate  that doesn’t exceed four times the country’s benchmark
lending rate, according to the statement dated Sept. 28. Wenzhou
is located about 470 kilometers (292 miles) south of  Shanghai .  The city government also asked banking institutions to
increase financing support to small and medium-sized businesses
by setting a ceiling on interest rates for loans to those
companies. Interest shouldn’t exceed 130 percent of China’s
benchmark rate, the statement said. The country’s one-year
lending rate is currently at 6.56 percent.  “Given the large proportion of private lending in Wenzhou,
we note that defaults on private borrowing could trigger a
negative chain effect throughout the lending system,” May Yan,
an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Hong Kong, wrote in a report
dated today. “We don’t expect such contagion effects to be
limited to Wenzhou.”  The risk for Chinese banks will be shared by the informal
lending system as private lenders may help offload substantial
week credit by extending loans that banks don’t want to take,
Yan said. The informal lending system was estimated at about 4
trillion yuan ($629 billion), according to the Barclays report.  “In the end, how banks will be impacted by increasing
bankruptcies in the corporate sector funded by shadow banking
and informal lending largely depends on whether banks will be
required by the central government to support the failed
corporate,” Yan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  