-- 
Christie Comes Clean on Trips as N.J. Governor Seeks Donations

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/christie-comes-clean-on-trips-as-new-jersey-governor-seeks-cash-nationwide.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
bid to raise money nationwide for Republicans as he considers a
presidential run is forcing him to divulge details on out-of-
state trips that he had previously kept secret.  Christie, 49, has made at least 35 political appearances
outside New Jersey since he took office in January 2010,
according to a review of his public schedule, published reports
and Republican State Committee finance records filed with the
New Jersey  Election Law Enforcement Commission .  Those trips became a political issue after Christie’s June
attendance at a private Colorado gathering hosted by the Tea-
Party-backing Koch brothers came to light. Christie, who pledged
a “new era of transparency” in his inaugural address, didn’t
notify the public or legislative leaders that he left the state
that day. New Jersey has no formal notification process for when
a governor travels.  “The governor needs to recognize that he has a
responsibility to the people of New Jersey to at least assure
for the orderly transfer of power if he does decide to leave the
state,” said state Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from
Teaneck who ran unsuccessfully for lieutenant governor as  Jon Corzine ’s running mate in the 2009 election won by Christie.  Weinberg, 76, introduced legislation on Sept. 22 that would
require a governor to give written notice to legislative leaders
whenever he transfers power to the lieutenant governor.  Political Travel  Weinberg, who Christie said reporters should “take a bat”
to in April for collecting both a public pension and a paycheck
as a legislator, joined other Democrats who criticized
Christie’s travel to raise money for Republicans. Democrats
control both houses of New Jersey’s Legislature, and all 120
seats are up for election in November.  Since taking office, Christie has headlined fundraisers in
states including New York and  Pennsylvania , and built up a
wellspring of support in his party as he campaigns for
Republicans from  Massachusetts  to  New Mexico . Donors from
 Florida  to Colorado helped drive a 12-fold increase in financing
from other states for the New Jersey Republican party this year.  Christie last week took a national fundraising trip paid
for by party organizations in New Jersey, Louisiana and
 Missouri , said  Rick Gorka , a spokesman for the New Jersey
Republican State Committee. He declined to say what the trips
cost or raised. Public records aren’t yet available.  Increasing Pressure  Christie has said repeatedly that he would “have to commit
suicide” to convince people he won’t seek higher office in
2012. While on last week’s trip, he came under increasing
pressure to change his mind after Texas Governor Rick Perry, a
presidential candidate, stumbled in a Sept. 22 debate, said a
Republican close to Christie who declined to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak for him.  During a Sept. 27 speech at the Reagan Presidential Library
in Simi Valley,  California , Christie assailed President  Barack Obama  as a “bystander in the Oval Office.” He also spoke on
domestic and foreign policy, politics and national defense. When
asked by an audience member if he would run, Christie pointed to
video clips on the Politico website of him saying he wouldn’t be
a candidate.  Now back in New Jersey, Christie is actively considering
entering the race and may make a decision within days, a
Republican donor who asked not to be identified said Sept. 30.
Christie, appearing at a military awards event yesterday in Sea
Girt, didn’t respond to questions about whether he would run.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment on whether Christie was considering a bid for president.
Gorka also declined to comment.  Koch Trip  The New Jersey Republican committee paid $63,000 for a
chartered jet to fly Christie to a closed-door seminar June 26
near Vail,  Colorado , public election records show. The event was
sponsored by David andCharles Koch, the billionaire oilmen, and
Christie’s participation became public only when the magazine
Mother Jones posted a secret recording of his speech to its
website Sept. 7.  Christie’s use of campaign contributions for political
travel should enter “the area of full disclosure,” said
Assemblyman John Wisniewski of Sayreville, chairman of the New
Jersey Democratic Party.  “It’s really just a fundraising ploy,” Wisniewski said in
a Sept. 29 phone interview. “No one is ever going to pay big
bucks in September or October to meet with a governor from
another state unless they think maybe he’s going to run.”  ‘All Politics’  Christie said the outcry over his trips is “all
politics.” He told reporters in September that Weinberg never
raised concerns about his predecessor Corzine, who used to sleep
in  New York  “four nights a week, five nights a week.”  Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Co. who
traveled often to  Europe  and the Hamptons on Long Island, was
out of state for all or part of about one-fourth of his first 15
months in office, the New York Times reported after a review of
transfer-of-power letters to then-Senate President Richard Codey, who was second in command.  The tally didn’t include stays at the Manhattan home of
Corzine’s then-girlfriend, Sharon Elghanayan. A 2006 letter to
Corzine’s office from the attorney general at the time, Zulima
Farber, said no transfer-of-power notice was necessary for “an
occasional, overnight stay in  New York City ,” the Times said.  New Jersey  created a lieutenant governor position starting
with the 2009 election. Christie’s policy is to send letters to
legislative leaders and his lieutenant, Republican Kim Guadagno,
if he’ll be out of state overnight, he told reporters. If the
trip is “intraday,” whether it be to Philadelphia or to
Colorado, he doesn’t send letters, he said.  ‘Zone of Privacy’  Christie, during his September radio show, said public
figures are entitled to a “zone of privacy” and that he won’t
disclose every meeting or trip if he doesn’t believe doing so is
warranted.  “I have the ability on the weekend to go and travel to
where I want and do what I want to do, and if it doesn’t involve
my job I’m not going to announce it,” Christie said.  The view contrasts with former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who often traveled for personal reasons and
announced whenever he left the state, though the location wasn’t
always described. Governor  Jerry Brown  does the same.  The protocol that Christie follows in charging the party
for political trips isn’t new, Drewniak said in an e-mail.  “The state party pays for costs associated with political
travel, which is the long-held practice of governors of both
parties,” Drewniak said.  Party Benefits  The policy was formalized in a Dec. 20, 1993, opinion from
the Election Law Enforcement Commission to the Republican State
Committee, according to a letter Gorka provided to Bloomberg
News. The letter declared the governor the leader of the party,
and stated the party, not taxpayers or a campaign fund, was the
“proper and appropriate organization to defray such expenses.”  “Donors, whether it’s in New Jersey or outside of the
state, support the accomplishments of the governor and
Republicans in the Legislature,” Gorka said. “If the governor
increases his own profile, it benefits the party here in New
Jersey.”  Because Christie isn’t a declared candidate for president,
he is allowed under current laws to use contributions to the
state party as an unlimited and unregulated source of money to
bankroll political travel, said  Craig Holman , who tracks ethics,
lobbying and campaign-finance issues for  Public Citizen , a
nonpartisan Washington-based group that advocates for public
funding of presidential campaigns.  Federal Rules  Other sitting politicians with aspiration to higher office
have done the same thing, including Perry, who announced his run
in August. Declared candidates must pay travel bills from
accounts subject to Federal Election Commission rules.  “That’s why many people delay declaring their candidacy,
so they can tap into this unregulated source of money,” Holman
said.  “Christie is a potential presidential candidate,” Holman
said in a Sept. 29 interview. “This could be a great source of
funds to promote his presidential aspirations without having any
impact on state party development or state politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  