-- 
Chrysler Leads Truck-Driven Sales in September to Best Month Since April

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/chrysler-september-u-s-sales-rise-27-best-results-since-2007-for-month.html
Chrysler Group LLC, boosted by
deliveries of Ram pickups, led September U.S. auto sales gains
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  also beat estimates on Silverado and F-Series trucks.  Chrysler sales climbed 27 percent to 127,334 cars and light
trucks, according to a regulatory filing. GM deliveries rose 20
percent to 207,145 and Ford sales increased 9 percent to
174,860, the companies said in separate statements.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Honda Motor Co., and partners  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  reported sales that fell short of estimates.  September light-vehicle deliveries rose to a seasonally
adjusted annualized rate of 13.1 million, according to Autodata
Corp. The average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 12.8 million pace. The rate is the highest since
April’s 13.2 million, when lost output caused by Japan’s tsunami
started crimping supply of parts and finished cars.  “It was a good solid performance,”  Paul Ballew , chief
economist for Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio,
said in a phone interview. “The industry overall is in much
better shape in terms of inventories. Gas prices dropped, and
when you combine that with higher incentive spending, it boosted
the truck mix.”  Deliveries by Chrysler, the U.S. automaker controlled by
 Fiat SpA (F) , beat seven analysts’ average estimate for a 20 percent
increase. Chrysler results included a 45 percent increase in Ram
pickup sales. Deliveries of the new Durango sport-utility
vehicle rose to 4,923 from 47 a year earlier, the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based company said in the filing.  ‘Driven by Product’  “The strength is really driven by product, which is
something Chrysler really hasn’t had in a long time,” Jesse Toprak, an analyst at Santa Monica, California-based auto
researcher TrueCar.com, said in a phone interview. “They still
have a higher reliance on SUVs and trucks, and in a month like
this it helped them.”  GM deliveries were expected to increase 19 percent, the
average of eight analysts’ estimates. Chevrolet Silverado sales
surged 36 percent to 43,698, and GMC Sierra trucks gained 26
percent to 13,904, the Detroit-based company said today in a
statement.  Ford’s light-vehicle sales were projected to rise 5.9
percent, the average of eight analysts’ estimates. Sales of F-
Series trucks rose 15 percent, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
company said in a statement. Pickups and SUVs accounted for 72
percent of Ford’s sales in September, up from 66 percent a year
earlier.  Pent-Up Demand  “Significant gains in pickups suggests that there is pent-
up demand in the small-business and work-truck area of the
business,” Alan Baum, an industry consultant at Baum &
Associates in West Bloomfield, Michigan, said in a phone
interview. “The automotive factors are more important than the
economic factors. The long-term demand remains.”  The strength in truck sales and Toyota and Honda’s return
to full production last month boosted U.S. auto sales back to
the pace reached before the March earthquake in  Japan . The sales
rate averaged 13.1 million in the year’s first four months
before falling to as low as 11.6 million in June, according to
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata.  Sales declined 8 percent at Honda, exceeding the 6.1
percent drop that was the average of five analysts’ estimates.
Deliveries slid 20 percent or more in each of the previous four
months for the Tokyo-based automaker, which is scheduling
overtime shifts at two Ohio assembly plants,  Ron Lietzke , a
spokesman, said in a Sept. 28 phone interview.  Honda Production  “Our U.S. manufacturing facilities are finally up to full
production and the results are starting to show with increased
CR-V, Pilot and Odyssey sales,”  John Mendel , Honda’s executive
vice president of U.S. sales, said in a statement. “Truckloads
of new vehicles began arriving the last week of September and
shoppers can now feel more confident that they will find what
they want at their local Honda dealer.”  Toyota, Asia’s largest automaker, said sales of its three
brands fell 17 percent last month, exceeding the 15 percent
decline that was the average of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s global
production increased for the first time in 12 months in August.  “The worst is behind us and we expect to exceed year-ago
sales levels beginning in October with continued growth
throughout the fourth quarter,”  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in a statement today.  Nissan Sales Climbs  Nissan Motor Co., whose better supply of parts has buoyed
inventory levels above its Japan-based rivals, reported a 25
percent gain for September, better than the 18 percent average
of five analysts’ estimates. The company said its Nissan-brand
cars rose a combined 32 percent.  With vehicle production and inventory recovering for Toyota
and Honda, the fourth quarter may be the year’s strongest for
auto sales,  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S.
sales, said in a phone interview.  “Inventory levels for all manufacturers are going to get
back to normal, and people who have been sitting on the fence
are likely to get back in the market,” he said. “If we have
another month like September, I’d say all bets are off.”  Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, and its affiliate
Kia combined to sell 14 percent more vehicles than a year
earlier, less than the 20 percent gain that was the average of
three estimates. Both automakers are based in Seoul.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand sales climbed 36 percent to
27,036, according to an e-mailed statement. Deliveries of the
Jetta compact sedan surged 40 percent to 15,023, said
Volkswagen, whose U.S. unit is based in Herndon, Virginia.  GM Inventory  GM’s full-size pickup inventory slid to 208,650, from
212,520 a month earlier. Supply of the trucks dropped to 88 days
from 107 days at the end of August on a selling-day adjusted
basis, the company said. GM reiterated that it is targeting
year-end inventory of about 200,000 full-size pickups.  “GM had really overproduced on Silverado pickups in
particular and have been trying to figure out a way to sell
them,”  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of auto researcher
Edmunds.com, said in a phone interview. “Usually we have a
summer sell down in July. It didn’t start until Labor Day
weekend. People who were waiting for deals kept waiting until
September.”  GM fell 45 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $19.73 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford slid 30 cents,
or 3.1 percent, to $9.37.  Gas Prices   Lower gasoline prices may have helped improve demand for
pickups, said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive
in Lexington, Massachusetts. The average price for unleaded
gasoline fell almost 20 cents, or 5.4 percent, in September to
$3.43 a gallon, according to AAA.  Cheaper gasoline and boosted output of Toyota’s Corolla and
Honda’s Civic may have pressured sales of GM’s Chevrolet Cruze
and Ford’s Focus. Chevrolet Cruze deliveries fell short of
20,000 for the first time since April, and Focus sales declined
24 percent to 10,309. Corolla deliveries fell 23 percent and
Civic slid 26 percent.  Cruze deliveries dropped sequentially because of seasonal
factors,  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, said on
a conference call. Ford was building up inventory of the Focus,
which has been in production for “several months,”  Ken Czubay ,
Ford’s U.S. sales chief, said on a conference call.  “The stock as of today is in darn-good shape; it was just
a ramp up last month,” Czubay told analysts and reporters.
“Put it on the calendar for a month from now, we’re going to
have a good October for Focus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  