-- 
Citigroup Said to Face Penalty on Japan Regulatory Breach

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-10-03T05:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/citigroup-said-to-face-regulatory-penalty-on-japan-rule-breach.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  may be penalized by
regulators in  Japan  for the third time since 2004 after its
Japanese retail banking unit possibly breached rules by failing
to fully explain product risk to customers, two people familiar
with the situation said.  The penalties imposed on Citigroup Japan’s retail banking
division by the  Financial Services Agency  may include temporary
suspensions of operations at some outlets, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the discussion is private.  Citigroup, which started its Japan business in 1902, has
been expanding its retail banking operations over the past
decade to tap wealth in a country where households have 1,490
trillion yen ($19 trillion) of financial assets. The latest
investigation follows business suspensions in 2009 and 2004 for
inadequate controls against  money laundering .  Shares of Citigroup fell 3.7 percent to 1,951 yen at 2:27
p.m. in Tokyo trading. The New York-based bank declined in an e-
mailed statement to comment on its conversations with regulators.
Toshiharu Mashita, a spokesman at the Financial Services Agency,
declined to comment.  The agency ended its onsite inspection of the U.S. bank’s
Tokyo offices in July, the people said.  Citibank Japan Ltd.  has
been discussing with the agency why the errors occurred, who may
be responsible for them, and how to improve its compliance and
internal controls, the people said.  Insufficient Information  Citigroup possibly had insufficient information related to
risk profiles, such as the age and occupation of its customers,
needed to measure the degree of risk they should take, the
regulators pointed out, according to the people.  The  U.S. bank  may reshuffle management after finding
alleged problems with its disclosures in selling financial
products, the Wall Street Journal reported today, citing unnamed
people familiar with the matter.  Citibank Japan had 3.49 trillion yen of deposits and 246.2
billion yen of loans outstanding as of June 30. It has 32
branches and offices and 1,780 employees after opening or
renewing existing outlets in Tokyo, Nagoya,  Osaka  and Kobe since
April 2010.  In 2009, Citigroup was ordered by the regulator to suspend
marketing of banking services to individuals for a month, after
failing to put in place adequate internal controls to detect and
monitor suspicious transactions. In 2004, the company was
ordered to close its private banking operations in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  