-- 
Clear Channel Owner Names Pittman as CEO to Lead Digital Music Advance

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T08:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/clear-channel-owner-names-pittman-as-ceo-to-lead-digital-advance.html
CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) , the owner of
radio company Clear Channel Communications and billboard
advertiser Clear Channel Outdoor, named Bob Pittman as chief
executive officer to lead expansion in digital offerings.  Pittman, the co-founder and former CEO of music channel
 MTV , joined CC Media in November 2010 as an investor and the
chairman of media and entertainment platforms, the San Antonio-
based company said in a statement late yesterday. He will start
as CEO immediately.  Pittman is tasked with turning a radio company that owns
850 stations and has syndication agreements with 4,000 more,
into a business focused on digital music. CC Media created
iHeartRadio, a free digital radio station, and acquired digital
music company Thumbplay to compete with online music rivals such
as Pandora Media Inc.’s website.  CC Media Holdings was acquired by a group of private equity
companies, lead by Bain Capital Partners LLC, in 2008. While
revenue declined 20 percent between 2007 and 2009 as Clear
Channel lost advertising, sales increased 5.7 percent last year
as the economy recovered from a recession. Radio business sales
are continuing to increase this year following acquisitions.  Mark Mays, the former the CEO of CC Media, will remain
chairman of the parent company. Mays announced more than a year
ago that he would step down as CEO after working at the company
for more than two decades. John Hogan, the head of Clear Channel
Radio, also will stay with the company, according to the
statement.  Clear Channel Outdoor has almost 1 million advertising
displays in more than 40 countries, including huge signs in  New
York ’s Times Square.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  