-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Increases as Multifamily Gains

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-03T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-increased-in-august.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly rebounded in August, propelled by the biggest jump
in state and local government outlays in more than two years.  The 1.4 percent gain reversed the revised 1.4 percent drop
in July, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median estimate of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 0.2 percent decline. The industry was up 1.4 percent
from August 2010 before adjusting for seasonal variations, the
first positive reading this year.  Increased building of multifamily residences, like
apartments and townhouses, adds to evidence that Americans are
moving away from home buying in favor of renting. Even with the
gain in state and local spending in August, public construction
was down 5.3 percent from a year earlier, showing the pain caused
by budget cuts.  “Home sales and housing construction continue to struggle,”
 Steven Wood , president of Insight Economics LLC in Danville,
 California , said before the report. Public projects face
“increasingly difficult budget conditions,” he said.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from an increase of
1.2 percent to a drop of 1.1 percent. The prior month’s reading
was previously reported as a 1.3 percent decline.  Private construction spending rose 0.4 percent. Homebuilding
outlays increased 0.7 percent, while private non-residential
projects climbed 0.2 percent.  Spending by public entities jumped 3.1 percent from the
prior month, the most since February 2009. Federal construction
spending fell 0.5 percent, a third consecutive drop, while state
and local agencies spent 3.5 percent more.  Government Spending   The gain in total government spending reflected increases in
the building of schools, streets and highways and waste disposal
plants.  Work began on 571,000 homes at an annual pace in August, the
weakest in three months, figures from the Commerce Department
showed on Sept. 20.  “There’s not much that points to an improving housing
market at any point in the near future,”  Ara Hovnanian , chairman
and chief executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , said
on a Sept. 8 conference call with analysts. “Our internal
business plan assumes market conditions do not improve.”  Purchases of new houses declined in August to a six-month
low as the biggest drop in prices in two years failed to lure
buyers away from even less expensive distressed properties,
Commerce Department figures showed on Sept. 26. The median price
fell 7.7 percent from August 2010, the steepest 12-month drop
since July 2009.  Fed Outlook  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook,” Federal Reserve policy makers said in a statement on
Sept. 21 after its two-day meeting. “The housing sector remains
depressed,” and there is “continuing weakness in overall labor
market conditions.”  The Fed, aiming to lower borrowing costs and spur housing
and refinancing, last month announced additional steps that
include a decision to reinvest maturing mortgage debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries.  Government agencies are under pressure to cut spending. The
Census Bureau reported last month that property-tax collections -
- the main source of income for cities and counties -- dropped
1.2 percent in the second quarter, the third consecutive decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  