-- 
Conservative Means Standing With Science on Climate: Bob Inglis

-- B y   B o b   I n g l i s
-- 
2011-10-03T00:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/conservative-means-standing-with-science-on-climate-bob-inglis.html
Normally, the country can count on
conservatives to deal in facts. We base policies on science, not
sentiment, we insist on people being accountable for their
actions, and we maintain that markets, not mandates, are the
path to prosperity.  When it comes to energy and climate, these are not normal
times.  We’re following sentiment, not science, we’re turning a
blind eye to accountability, and we’re failing to use the power
of markets.  The  National Academy of Sciences  says, “Climate change is
occurring, is caused largely by human activities, and poses
significant risks.” Several recent  studies  have found that 95
percent of climate scientists are convinced that the planet is
rapidly warming as a result of human activity. But a  George
Mason University-Yale University poll  in May found that only 13
percent of the public realizes that scientists have come to that
conclusion.  You would expect conservatives to stand with 95 percent of
the scientific community and to grow the 13 percent into a
working majority. Normally, we deal in facts, we accept science
and we counter sentiment -- as we do when we stand for free-
trade agreements, for entitlement reform and against minimum-
wage increases. Each of those positions gets us in trouble with
sizable constituencies, and yet we stand for the truth as we
know it -- that free trade increases our nation’s wealth, that
entitlements are consuming the federal budget and that minimum
wages create unemployment.  Courage fails us when it comes to energy and climate.
Fearing our economic circumstances, we’ve decided to channel the
fear rather than to confront it. Some conservatives even allege
that the scientific conclusion about  climate change  is affected
by the flow of grant money -- a conflict of interest that we
overlook when taking the drug Lipitor, even though the tests
proving its efficacy were financed by its maker, Pfizer.
Conservatives seem to think that climate change is for elitists,
enviros and Democrats, not hard-working, God-fearing
Republicans.  A Scapegoat  In the light most favorable, maybe conservatives are thinking,
“If there is a problem, surely there’s some brainiac who will
invent a solution.” Call it the faithful’s faith in the
faithless. In any event, the thinking seems to go, it’s just not
“our” issue. And because we’re already at war on a number of
other fronts, surely posterity will forgive us if we offer the
fearful a scapegoat rather than a solution on this one.
Meanwhile, our friends (or are they our masters?) say “Attaboy!”
on talk TV and radio.  Thankfully, some are beginning to take a conservative
approach rather than a populist approach. Governor  Chris Christie , the effective, deficit-cutting governor of  New Jersey ,
has joined presidential candidates  Jon Huntsman  and  Mitt Romney 
in saying that climate change is real and is caused, in part, by
human activity. That Christie said those things while removing
his state from a cap-and-trade compact is no contradiction. Most
of us conservatives think that cap-and-trade is the wrong
answer. Some of us support an alternative that involves changing
what we tax (reducing taxes on income; shifting an equal amount
of tax to carbon dioxide emissions).  Normally, conservatives are also people who believe in
accountability. We start with proposition that humans are
responsible moral actors, and we believe that behavior has
consequences. So why don’t we hold  power plants  accountable for
their emissions?  According to a  study  by Abt Associates in 2004, small
particulates from coal-fired plants cause 23,600 premature
deaths in the U.S. annually, 21,850 hospital admissions, 26,000
emergency room visits for asthma, 38,200 heart attacks that are
not fatal, and 3,186,000 lost work days.  No Free Lunch  Because conservatives know that there’s no such thing as a
free lunch, we know that we’re paying for those deaths and
illnesses. We pay for them through government programs for the
poor and elderly, and when the costs of the uninsured are
shifted onto the insured. We pay all right, but just not at the
electric meter.  We pay the full cost of petroleum in hidden ways, too. We
pay to protect the supply lines coming out of the  Middle East 
through the blood of the country’s best and though the treasure
that comes from our taxes or, worse, from deficit financing. We
pay in the risk to our national security. We pay the cost of
lung impairments when the small-particulate pollution comes from
tailpipes just like we pay when the small particulates come from
power plants. We just don’t pay at the pump.  What if we attached all of the costs -- especially the
hidden costs -- to all fuels? What if we believed in
accountability? What if we believed in the power of free
markets?  If we did, the price of gasoline and coal-fired electricity
would rise significantly, but hidden costs paid in hidden ways
would decline commensurately. If we simultaneously eliminated
all subsidies, we’d unleash real competition among all fuels.
Markets would powerfully deliver solutions. New power turbines
would come to market that remove the sulfur and the mercury from
coal before combustion, burning only the hydrogen. Emission-free
nuclear power plants would be built. Electric cars would rapidly
penetrate the market -- not because of clumsy government
mandates or incentives, but because sharp entrepreneurs would be
selling useful products to willing customers awakened by
accountable pricing.  The solution to our energy and climate challenge can be
found in the conservative concept of accountability and in a
well-functioning free-enterprise system. We conservatives just
need to believe that.  (Bob Inglis represented the 4th district of  South Carolina 
in the U.S. House from 1993 to 1999 and from 2005 to 2011. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Bob Inglis at  bob.inglis.us@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 