-- 
Copper Falls to 14-Month Low on Prospects for Demand to Weaken

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-03T17:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/copper-drops-extending-last-quarter-s-loss-on-growth-concern.html
Copper may decline in  New York  on
concern metals demand is set to wane as economies slow.  Manufacturing contracted in  Europe  for a second month,
 Markit Economics  said today.  Japan ’s Tankan survey showed
sentiment among the nation’s largest manufacturers remains worse
than before March’s earthquake. A separate report showed U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in September.  “Lower demand owing to lower industrial production
forecasts make the complex vulnerable, particularly in the case
of a developed markets recession,” Morgan Stanley analyst
 Hussein Allidina  said in a report e-mailed today. The bank cut
its forecast for copper’s price next year.  Copper for December delivery dropped 0.2 cent, or 0.1
percent, to $3.15 a pound by 12:43 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices reached $2.994 earlier today, the lowest level
since July 2010. The metal for three-month delivery fell 0.8
percent to $6,963.50 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for the 2012 price of
copper by 17 percent to $3.8 a pound, citing a “rapidly
diminishing prospect of global growth being robust enough to
deliver stronger base metals prices next year.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index climbed
to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s data today. A level of 50 is the dividing line between
growth and contraction. Economists forecast the measure to fall
to 50.5, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Copper stockpiles in warehouses monitored by exchanges in
London, Shanghai and New York are up 15 percent this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In  China , the top global copper consumer, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange is closed this week for the National Day
holidays. As many as 5,000 merchants have gathered in the U.K.
capital for the annual  LME Week , during which supply contracts
are discussed.  Aluminum, tin and zinc gained in London. Nickel jumped as
much as 8.5 percent and lead fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  