-- 
Credit Suisse, BTG Say Brazil ‘Defensive’ Stocks to Lead

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/credit-suisse-btg-say-brazil-defensive-stocks-to-outperform.html
Brazilian stock investors should seek
out companies least vulnerable to inflation and a slowdown in
global economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis increases trading
volatility, said Credit Suisse Group AG and Banco BTG Pactual.  Credit Suisse analyst Andrew T. Campbell and BTG’s Carlos Sequeira recommended investors buy “defensive” stocks such as
phone operator  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA (TLPP3)  and meatpacker
BRF Brasil Foods SA. Both analysts also called for cutting
holdings of banks and homebuilders.  “We would buckle up our seatbelts and prepare for more
volatility ahead,” Sequeira wrote in a note e-mailed to clients
today. Investors should “prioritize stocks combining the
following traits: high quality operations, sound business
fundamentals, a good competitive positioning and recurring
revenues,” he said.  The Bovespa index on Sept. 30 completed its largest
quarterly drop since the last three months of 2008 as the
fastest inflation in six years sparked declines in companies
that depend on domestic demand while the slide in commodity
prices sent producers lower. Telesp, as the unit of  Spain ’s
Telefonica SA is known, and  Brasil Foods  were two of eight
stocks on the 68-member benchmark to gain in the quarter, rising
9.7 percent and 21 percent, respectively. The Bovespa lost 16
percent.  Telesp rose 1.5 percent to 49.19 reais at the 4:15 p.m. New
York time close, while Brasil Foods declined 2.3 percent to
31.45 reais. The Bovespa declined 2.9 percent.  Credit Suisse also added shopping-mall owner  BR Malls
Participacoes SA (BRML3)  to its “Brazil model portfolio,” while BTG
added toll-road operator Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias,
securities clearinghouse  Cetip SA - Balcao Organizado de Ativos
e Derivativos (CTIP3)  and  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , the frequent-flyer unit of
Brazilian airline Tam SA, to its “10 Stock Ideas” list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  