-- 
Oil Declines a Third Day on Global Economic Slowdown, Rising Crude Supply

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-04T06:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/crude-extends-decline-from-one-year-low-on-concern-fuel-demand-to-falter.html
Oil dropped for a third day in  New
York  as investors speculated that fuel demand will falter amid
slowing global growth and rising supplies. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lowered its 2012 forecast for  Brent crude .  Futures slid as much as 2.2 percent after falling yesterday
to the lowest settlement in more than a year. European leaders
indicated that investors may have to take bigger losses than
previously assumed on Greek debt, while Goldman Sachs cut its
2012 Brent forecast to $120 a barrel from $130. U.S. crude
inventories climbed for a second week, an Energy Department
report tomorrow may show. Libya aims to raise production to more
than 500,000 barrels a day by the end of this month, according
to the chairman of state-run National Oil Corp.  “We are seeing continuing pressure across the commodities
complex from these concerns about the global growth prospect,”
said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “The markets are universally
bearish, and we’re looking for reasons to sell. The oil markets
are being affected by that.”  Crude for November delivery declined as much as $1.69 to
$75.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $77.16 at 5:10 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract yesterday fell 2 percent to $77.61, the lowest close
since Sept. 28, 2010. Prices are down 16 percent this year.  Brent Outlook  Brent oil for November settlement slipped 0.3 percent to
$101.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $24.16 to
New York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Jeffrey Currie , an oil analyst at Goldman Sachs, cited a
“flatter upward trajectory” as he cut his Brent crude forecast.
In a separate report, Goldman Sachs cut its global economic
growth forecast for this year and next, predicting recessions in
Germany and  France  as Europe stalls and the risk of a
contraction in the U.S. grows.  European finance ministers met in Luxembourg yesterday to
discuss the debt crisis. They considered “technical revisions”
to a July deal that foresaw investors contributing 50 billion
euros ($66 billion) to a 159 billion-euro rescue for  Greece .  Hedge funds and other money managers cut bullish bets on
Brent by 36 percent in the week ended Sept. 27, according to
data from ICE Futures  Europe . Speculative bets that prices will
rise in futures and options combined outnumbered short positions
by 47,027 contracts, the London-based exchange said yesterday in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  Crude Supplies  The European benchmark future may fall to $84 a barrel
after its 50-day moving average fell below the 200-day average
last week in a formation known as the “death cross,” according
to technical analysis by hedge fund Again Capital LLC.  Libya aims to raise oil output after the North African
nation restarted the Zawiya refinery, its second largest,
according to Nuri Berruien, the chairman of National Oil Corp.
The country’s goal of restoring crude production to 1.7 million
barrels a day within 15 months is a “conservative figure,” he
said yesterday in Tripoli.  Libyan Crude   Fighting in  Libya  reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content. The country’s
output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according to
Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation pumped 100,000
barrels a day last month.  U.S. crude inventories rose 1.9 million barrels last week,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey before the Energy Department report. Gasoline
supplies climbed 1.23 million barrels, the survey shows.  New York crude may test technical support at around $74 a
barrel and $64 a barrel, levels that correspond with the 50 and
62 percent retracement levels on a Fibonacci study from lows in
January 2009, said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group
Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  