-- 
Denmark’s Bank Watchdog Warns Against Relying on Crisis Liquidity Lifeline

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-10-03T11:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/danish-fsa-tells-banks-not-to-rely-on-crisis-liquidity-aid-1-.html
Denmark ’s financial regulator warned
the country’s banks against relying on a $72 billion liquidity
lifeline offered by the central bank and urged lenders to do
more to ensure stable funding.  The central bank on Sept. 30 said it will offer banks as
much as 400 billion kroner ($72 billion) in liquidity, and
provide six-month loans at a rate that tracks the benchmark on
its seven-day lending program, currently 1.55 percent. The plan
is designed to support banks cut off from international funding
markets as they try to refinance state-backed debt coming due
through 2013.  Banks should see the liquidity facility as “a possibility,
and it’s good, but you shouldn’t stop working on creating a more
sound funding structure,” Kristian Vie Madsen, deputy director
general of the Financial Supervisory Authority, said in an
interview in Copenhagen. “There are some banks that have a
challenge when having to pay back the state-guaranteed
funding.”  Denmark’s banks have been cutting lending and dumping
assets as they struggle to refinance 158 billion kroner in
state-backed loans coming due in the next two years. The
government has said it will only extend the guarantee on loans
in the event of a merger, as it seeks to spur a consolidation
wave and help the bank industry avoid more insolvencies.  Credit Crunch  About 75 of Denmark’s 90 local banks probably need either
to be bought or wound down, Henning Kruse Petersen, the chairman
of the state winding-up unit The Financial Stability Company,
said in an interview last month.  According to Jan Kondrup, director of the Local Bankers
Association, the liquidity line will help avert a “tendency
toward” a credit crunch. Denmark’s troubled banks will get
“more flexibility” in organizing their finances, he said.  Danish bank stocks lost 0.4 percent at 1:20 p.m. in
Copenhagen, outperforming the 46-member Bloomberg index of
European financials, which sank 2.6 percent. Danske Bank A/S,
the country’s biggest lender, fell 0.4 percent to trade at 78.25
kroner. Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-largest listed bank,
dropped 0.6 percent to 164.70 kroner.  The liquidity line is “a significant amount of money,”
Bjarne Graven Larsen, chief executive officer at FIH
Erhvervsbank A/S, said in a Sept. 30 interview. The program also
gives the central bank the option of expanding the collateral
base further if the need arises, he said.  Funding Closed  ‘They have the freedom in the future to include more
loans,” Graven Larsen said. “It gives the central bank
flexibility.”  The country’s lenders face a deepening crisis that
threatens to stall a recovery in Scandinavia’s worst-performing
economy. Two Danish  bank failures  this year triggered senior
creditor losses, leaving international funding markets closed to
all but the largest banks.  Before the central bank announced its liquidity line last
week, the FSA had told lenders with outstanding state-backed
loans to submit plans outlining how they will tackle the 2013
expiry deadline on the guarantee.  “They still have to do all that they can, but if they
don’t succeed, this is an opportunity to buy some more time,”
Vie Madsen said. “It’ll help the banks that run into liquidity
problems. Banks that have asset quality problems, it doesn’t
help on that.”  The central bank’s liquidity program won’t solve medium-
term financing challenges, without which banks can’t achieve a
“proper financing strategy,” Financial Stability Director
Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen said in an interview last week.  Capital Hurdles  According to  Standard & Poor’s , the program won’t help
banks short of capital, analyst Per Tornqvist said.  “In order to save troubled banks, liquidity is important
but it’s not replacing capital if capital is what is required,”
Tornqvist said in an interview on Sept. 30. “For some of these
banks, capital is the real issue. For some banks it might just,
so to say, be liquidity.”  Banks will be able to borrow against their healthy loans,
at a 35 percent haircut. The  FSA said  the central bank loans can
only be used to make up about one third of bank liquidity
requirements. Those availing themselves of the central bank’s
facility will be subject to greater scrutiny from the FSA and
under greater pressure to explain their funding strategies, the
regulator said Sept. 30.  “The central bank facility is helpful in providing a
buffer in a turbulent world,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice
president and head of ratings and regulatory affairs at Nykredit
A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds.
“But it is not a long-term solution for banks as also suggested
by the FSA’s focus on banks that use the facility and their
long-term refinancing plans.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  