-- 
Default Concern Drives Maxcom Yields to Record: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T21:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/default-concern-drives-maxcom-yields-to-record-mexico-credit.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB’s
borrowing costs are rising at twice the pace of similarly rated
global peers on speculation the Mexican phone company may
default as slowing economic growth deepens losses.  Yields on Maxcom’s dollar bonds due in 2014 soared 1,004
basis points in the past two months to a record 28.26 percent,
while the price of the securities sank to 65.09 cents on the
dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average yield on debt sold by companies globally that share
Maxcom’s CCC rating climbed 446 basis points, or 4.46 percentage
points, during the same period to 15.42 percent, Bank of America
Corp. data show.  Maxcom has posted six straight quarterly losses as it
struggles to compete with billionaire Emilio Azcarraga’s  Grupo
Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  in Latin America’s second-biggest economy. Slumping
global growth and Europe’s debt crisis are eroding demand for
higher-yielding assets, increasing concern Maxcom will be unable
to refinance its obligations, said Mark Christensen, who helps
manage $500 million in emerging-market debt at Doubleline
Capital LP in  Los Angeles .  “We’ve consistently seen numbers underperform,”
Christensen, who sold his Maxcom bonds last year, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s kind of a game of chicken to see if
they can get something to take place to improve their
scenario.”  The yield on Maxcom’s bonds compares with a rate of 2.4
percent yesterday for Mexican  government bonds  due in 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average borrowing costs
for Mexican companies rose 85 basis points in the past two
months to 7.09 percent yesterday, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data
show.  ‘Confident’  S&P defines CCC debt as vulnerable to nonpayment and
“dependent on favorable business, financial and economic
conditions.” Moody’s Investors Service rates Maxcom Caa1, seven
levels below investment grade, a category “subject to very high
credit risk.”  “We are improving our cash levels and our financial
position,” Manuel Perez, Maxcom’s director of  investor
relations , said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “We
are confident we will service totally our debt. We’ll make our
commitments.”  Maxcom has held discussions with banks about financing
options, Perez said. He declined to identify the banks. The
company, based in Mexico City, prefers to wait until markets
improve, probably in early 2013, before refinancing or engaging
in other transactions to raise cash, he said.  Second Quarter  Maxcom posted a net loss of 51.2 million pesos ($3.64
million) in the second quarter as cable carriers, including
three controlled by Grupo Televisa, entered the phone and
Internet markets with deep discounts and lured away customers.
Its ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization doubled to 3.2 times in 2010 from
1.5 times in 2008, when the company spent 1.63 billion pesos to
expand its network infrastructure as the collapse of the global
economy began hurting profits.  “The problem with the company is a lot of competition from
all fronts,” Nymia Almeida, an analyst at Moody’s in  Mexico 
City, said in a telephone interview. “After the recession in
2009, things just never got back to the way that they were. If
they don’t have sound operating results, the question is if they
will be able to refinance the debt.”  Mexico’s economy will probably grow 4 percent this year
after expanding 5.4 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in a
decade, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in a Sept. 8
interview with Mexico City-based Radio Formula. Growth in the
U.S., the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, will
slow to 1.6 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of 66 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Default ‘Unlikely’  Maxcom’s stock plunged 58 percent this year, compared with
a 14 percent decline for the benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican
stocks.  Maxcom will likely keep servicing its debt while asking
regulators to reduce interconnection fees charged by America
Movil SAB,  Latin America ’s largest wireless carrier, to help
boost profit next year, said Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp.
Actinver SAB in Mexico City.  “A default is very unlikely,” Lara said. “It’s a problem
that they have until the end of 2014 to resolve, and there are
still solutions.”  Maxcom is improving its payphones to make them less prone
to theft and this month started a new online video service
called Yuzu, with plans to sign up 500,000 users in the first
year of operations. Those initiatives will help boost sales,
Perez said.  ‘Risky Bond’  Mary Austin, who manages about $469 million in high-yield
debt, including Maxcom bonds, at Pax World Management LLC, said
the Mexican phone company is unlikely to stop making payments on
its debt and that the decline in the securities is part of the
global sell-off.  Concern that European officials will fail to contain the
region’s debt crisis and the U.S. recovery is faltering has
wiped more than $9 trillion from the value of global stocks in
the third quarter.  “It’s a risky bond and there’s been such a huge flight to
quality because of what’s going on with  Europe ,” Austin said in
a telephone interview from  New York .  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis points to
278 at 5:23 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso fell 1 percent to 14.0332 per  U.S. dollar .  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 14 basis points to 215, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February 2013 were unchanged today at 5.05 percent.  Speculation the Mexican government would change the law to
allow a foreign company to buy Maxcom had prompted some
investors to hold on to the company’s bonds, said Doubleline’s
Christensen. No such bill has been passed with about 14 months
remaining in President Felipe Calderon’s term.  “Unless something dramatically changes, they’re going to
have to restructure their debt,” Christensen said. “The cash
balance has just continued to get worse. It’s still the same
battle now but with less liquidity. They can limp along and hope
something changes, and that’s what the owners are doing. They
have three more years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  