-- 
Denmark’s New Government Boosts Investments to Fight Crisis

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-03T15:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/denmark-s-new-cabinet-to-ease-immigration.html
Denmark ’s new Social Democrat-led
government, presented today by Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt, will boost public investments to stimulate
Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy.  “We have a strong team that will steer the country through
the crisis,” Thorning-Schmidt, 44, said after presenting her
Cabinet to Queen Margrethe II in Copenhagen.  Bjarne Corydon, the principal architect behind the Social
Democrats’ economic policy, was named finance minister. Villy Soevndal, the leader of the Socialist People’s Party, will
become foreign minister. Margrethe Vestager, the leader of the
Social Liberals, was named economy and home affairs minister.  The three-party government will move forward 10 billion
kroner ($1.8 billion) of public investments to boost the
economy, according to its political platform presented today.
The government will need to steer the economy through twin
housing and banking crises that have suppressed consumer demand,
caused deficits and kept Denmark in a low-growth trap.  “The public deficit threatens our ability to have decent
welfare services,” Thorning-Schmidt said at a press conference
at the prime minister’s office in Copenhagen.  No Bank Tax  Denmark’s budget deficit will reach 3.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year and widen to 4.6 percent in 2012, the
former government estimated in August. The economy will grow 1.4
percent this year, the Danish central bank said on Sept. 20.
That compares with 4.5 percent estimated growth in neighboring
 Sweden , according to the Stockholm-based Riksbank.  The coalition won’t impose an extra tax on banks and on
Danes earning more than 1 million kroner a year, levies which
the Social Democrats and the Socialist People’s Party had
proposed during the election campaign.  It will ease the previous administration’s immigration
laws, removing among other things a point system used to
determine foreigners’ eligibility to gain residence. A cap on
 unemployment benefits  will also be eased. The administration
plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent compared
with the 1990 level and ensure half of the country’s electricity
originates from wind power by 2020.  “We’re laying down a path that will lead us back to being
proud of Denmark,” Thorning-Schmidt said.  Thorning-Schmidt became Denmark’s first female prime
minister after her bloc’s victory in the Sept. 15 election ended
a decade of rule by the Liberal-Conservative coalition of
outgoing Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen and his
parliamentary ally the Danish  People’s Party .  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  