-- 
Dexia Board Said to Meet as Sovereign Debt Crisis Curbs Funding

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/dexia-board-said-to-meet-as-sovereign-debt-crisis-curbs-lender-s-funding.html
The board of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , Belgium’s
biggest lender, is meeting to discuss options including a
possible breakup after  Europe ’s debt crisis reduced its funding,
a person with knowledge of the talks said.  Dexia, which finances municipalities in France and Belgium,
may split off its French business partly under the oversight of
state-owned Banque Postale SA, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the matter is confidential. The
discussions are complex because Dexia is based in Brussels and
Paris, and has both governments as shareholders. An announcement
may come as soon as tonight, the person said.  “Dexia is an extremely complicated file,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
with a “hold” rating on the shares. “The fact that two
countries are involved, both under pressure from rating
agencies, makes it even more difficult. We are not in 2008
anymore, when you could just inject multibillions of cash.”  Dexia has struggled to obtain short-term funding,
especially in dollars, as investors grew concerned it would have
to write down the value of its sovereign debt holdings after
 Greece  sought a second bailout. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani has sought to reduce the need for funding as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis spreads to Italy and Greek bondholders
take losses on their holdings.  “Until the start of the summer, Dexia was on track with
its deleveraging,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at
AlphaValue in Paris. “But the focus has shifted again on its
sovereign exposure because of the effects of Greece’s second
bailout on refinancing conditions.”  Stock Drops  The stock dropped 10 percent in Brussels trading as
speculation grew that the bank would seek a second bailout. The
shares fell 15 cents to 1.30 euros, cutting Dexia’s market value
to about 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion).  Dexia received a 6 billion-euro bailout from  Belgium ,
France and its largest shareholders in September 2008 following
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  The board will weigh options including setting up a so-call
bad bank, the Financial Times reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Funding for French local
governments would be provided in partnership with Banque Postale
and the Caisse des Depots et Consignations, a French government
fund, the newspaper reported. The bank’s remaining operations
would be sold to bolster capital, the FT said.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro loss for the second quarter,
the biggest in its history, after writing down the value of its
Greek debt.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service put Dexia’s three main operating
units on review for a downgrade on concern the lender was
struggling to fund itself.  “Dexia has experienced further tightening in its access
to market funding,” Moody’s said in a statement. “Dexia’s
collateral postings have increased due to substantial market
volatility.”  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
 France  and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian lender also operated a retail bank in
Belgium and a private bank in Luxembourg.  In September 2008, France and Belgium led the first rescue
of Dexia, buying a combined 3 billion euros of stock. The bank’s
existing shareholders, which include Caisse des Depots et
Consignations and Belgium’s Holding Communal SA, provided an
additional 3 billion euros.  Less than a month later, Dexia also obtained as much as 150
billion euros of debt guarantees from France, Belgium and
Luxembourg, of which it tapped a maximum of about 96 billion
euros in May 2009. The bank stopped issuing government-backed
debt in June 2010. It still had 29 billion euros outstanding at
the end of last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  