-- 
Dexia Leads Europe Banks Lower on Sovereign-Debt Worries

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-10-03T16:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/dexia-leads-europe-banks-lower-as-sovereign-debt-worries-rise.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  and Societe Generale SA led
a slide among European financial shares amid growing concern
that banks are having trouble funding themselves.  Dexia, the municipal lender rescued by France and  Belgium 
in 2008, fell as much as 14 percent in Brussels trading, the
most since March 2009, on concern it will need a second bailout
after Moody’s Investors Service placed its operating units on
review for a possible downgrade. Paris-based Societe Generale
fell as much as 9.8 percent.  Dexia faces “concerns about further deterioration in the
liquidity position of the group in light of the worsening
funding conditions in the wider market,” Moody’s said. Belgian
and French finance ministers plan to meet today to discuss
financing options for the lender,  Les Echos  reported on Sept.
30, citing unidentified people involved in the talks.  “The big worry for Dexia shareholders is a massive
dilution of shares,” said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity
Ltd. in Sheffield,  England . “There’s speculation that Dexia may
be on the receiving end of a bailout. Dexia is the most exposed,
and the news of a possible downgrade by Moody’s does not help.”  Dexia spokesman Benoit Gausseron declined to comment when
reached by phone.  ‘Extremely Complicated’  “Dexia is an extremely complicated file,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.
“The fact that two countries are involved, both under pressure
from rating agencies, makes it even more difficult. We are not
in 2008 anymore, when you could just inject multibillions of
cash.” Petrarque has a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  In August, Dexia posted a 4.03 billion-euro ($5.3 billion)
second-quarter loss, the largest in its history, as the firm
wrote down its holdings of Greek debt. The Brussels- and Paris-
based lender said at the time that U.S. investors’ concern about
the European sovereign-debt crisis had limited its ability to
borrow dollars in the money market.  Dexia relied on 34 billion euros of European Central Bank
funding at the end of June. During the 2008 credit crisis, the
bank was among the biggest European recipients of emergency
loans from the U.S. Federal Reserve, measured by peak balances,
according to a  compilation of data  by Bloomberg News.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said there’s no
need for “special worry” about Dexia’s financial position.
Authorities are monitoring the bank closely, he told reporters
in Luxembourg today.  Dexia fell 14.7 cents, or 10 percent, to 1.30 euros in
Brussels, while  Societe Generale (GLE)  tumbled 5.1 percent in Paris.
 KBC Groep NV (KBC)  was among the biggest decliners, down 8.8 percent.
The 50-member Stoxx 600 Banks Index slid 2.8 percent today after
falling 28 percent in the third quarter, its biggest quarterly
slide since 2008.  “The current level of bank shares already seems to imply
recapitalizations,” Petrarque said. “The news flow in October
will be extremely important, while the big question is whether
it will be enough to convince investors.”  At current stock levels, “you can start thinking about
bottom-fishing, focusing on banks with strong cash flows and not
too much leverage,” Petrarque said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  