-- 
Dexia Plunges in Brussels on Concern Second Rescue of Lender Is Required

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-10-03T17:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/dexia-plunges-in-brussels-on-concern-second-rescue-required.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender rescued by
 France  and Belgium in 2008, plunged 10 percent in Brussels on
concern the bank is struggling to fund itself and will need a
second bailout.  The company is holding an emergency board meeting tonight,
De Tijd reported, without saying where it got the information.
The shares fell 15 euro cents to 1.30 euros, cutting Dexia’s
market value to about 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion).  The bank in August posted a 4.03 billion-euro second-
quarter loss, the largest in its history, as the firm wrote down
its holdings of Greek debt. The Brussels- and Paris-based lender
said at the time that U.S. investors’ concern about the European
sovereign debt crisis had limited its ability to borrow dollars
in the money market.  “There’s speculation that Dexia may be on the receiving
end of a bailout,” said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity
Ltd. in Sheffield,  England . “The big worry for Dexia
shareholders is a massive dilution of shares.”  The board will weigh a break-up of the bank, including
setting up a so-call bad bank, the Financial Times reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Funding for
French local governments would be provided in partnership with
France’s Banque Postale SA and the Caisse des Depots et
Consignations, the newspaper reported. The bank’s remaining
operations would be sold to bolster capital, the FT said.  Funding Shortage  Dexia’s spokesman Benoit Gausseron didn’t immediately reply
to a message left on his mobile phone. The lender relied on 34
billion euros of European Central Bank funding at the end of
June. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani has sought to
reduce the need for funding as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
spreads to Italy and Greek bondholders take losses on their
holdings.  The bank’s commitments in the U.S. include about $14
billion of standby bond purchase agreements -- guarantees to buy
municipal bonds if investors want out -- and guaranteed
investment contracts, or GICs, which municipalities buy with
money raised from bond sales pending use for schools, roads and
other public works.  “Dexia is an extremely complicated file,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.
“The fact that two countries are involved, both under pressure
from rating agencies, makes it even more difficult. We are not
in 2008 anymore, when you could just inject multibillions of
cash.” Petrarque has a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  Moody’s Review  The lender also had the long-term deposit and debt ratings
and the short-term ratings of its three main operating units --
Dexia Bank  Belgium , Dexia Credit Local and Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg -- put on review for downgrade today
by Moody’s Investors Service on concerns that it’s struggling to
fund itself.  “Dexia has experienced further tightening in its access
to market funding,” Moody’s said in a statement. “Dexia’s
collateral postings have increased due to substantial market
volatility.”  Dexia spokesman Gausseron declined to comment on Moody’s
review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Taylor in Paris at 
 Staylor8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  