-- 
Dodgers Bankruptcy Judge Appoints Mediator to Help Team, League End Fight

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/dodgers-bankruptcy-judge-appoints-mediator-to-help-team-league-end-fight.html
A mediator was appointed by the judge
overseeing the Los Angeles Dodgers’ bankruptcy to help the club
and Major League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  try to overcome
their months-long battle over the future of the team.  Retired U.S. District Judge Joseph Farnan has been trying
to help craft a settlement between the Dodgers and Selig since
July, according to court documents filed yesterday in
Wilmington,  Delaware , where the team is in bankruptcy.  Farnan “has the ideal skills, knowledge, experience and
the personality to succeed in assisting the parties,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross said in his order approving payment
for the mediator. The talks will be confidential and Farnan
won’t communicate with Gross until the mediation is finished. At
that point, Farnan will report on whether the parties settled,
without making public any details of the talks.  Selig and team owner  Frank McCourt  have been battling about
the best way for the Dodgers to raise enough money to exit court
protection. Selig wants to force McCourt to sell the team, while
McCourt is planning to auction the right to televise future
games.  The team filed bankruptcy in June after Selig refused to
approve a new television contract that McCourt had negotiated
with the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Gross scheduled a hearing to begin Oct. 31 on whether to
grant Selig’s request to file a reorganization plan for the team
that requires a sale, or to grant McCourt’s request to try to
auction the TV rights.  Both men are expected to testify at that hearing, Gross
said in his order scheduling the hearing.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  