-- 
Dubai Shares Fall to 7-Month Low on Global Economic Concern; DFM Declines

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-03T13:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/dubai-shares-fall-to-7-month-low-on-global-economic-concern-du-declines.html
Dubai’s stocks fell to a seven-month
low before a meeting of European finance ministers to weigh the
threat of a Greek default and as oil declined to the lowest in
more than a year.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, decreased 3.7 percent.  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co. (DU) , known as Du, retreated to the lowest
since March. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 1.6 percent to
1,407.58, the lowest since March 7, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. The value of traded shares in Dubai tumbled to 30.2
million dirhams ($8.2 million) yesterday, the lowest since
August 2004. Shares with a value of about 89 million dirhams
traded today.  Emerging markets dropped, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
losing 2.7 percent, before European officials gather today to
grapple with how to shield banks from the debt crisis and
consider a further boost to the region’s rescue fund. Oil
retreated as much as 2.3 percent to $77.36 a barrel as traders
speculated  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowing U.S. economy will
curb fuel demand.  “We are being impacted by the global sentiment,” said
Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $100 million at The National
Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “We don’t follow the same pace as other
markets as we don’t have foreigners at this point in time.”  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
probably fell to 50.5 from 50.6 in August, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists ahead of data today. Gains in
U.S. payrolls in September may have been too small to reduce
joblessness and manufacturing almost stalled as concern mounted
that the global recovery was losing momentum, economists said
before reports this week. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped as much as 1.3 percent.  Dubai’s Drop  Dubai’s gauge slipped 5.6 percent in the third quarter amid
concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening. That
compares with a 23 percent slump for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. The stock market saw net foreign investment outflow of
56.5 million dirhams in June and 15.9 million dirhams in July,
according to the bourse’s  website .  “I do not expect liquidity to pick up anytime soon,” said
Ahmed Talhaoui, head of asset management at Abu Dhabi-based
Royal Capital PJSC.  Emaar fell to 2.64 dirhams, the lowest since March 8. Du,
the U.A.E.’s second-largest phone company, retreated 2 percent
to 2.9 dirhams, the lowest since March 7.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 0.8 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.7 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
slumped 0.6 percent. Kuwait’s gauge lost 0.5 percent and Oman’s
MSM 30 Index fell 0.2 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 1.4 percent to the lowest since Aug. 24.  Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the U.A.E. and Qatar,
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  