-- 
The Real U.S. Map, a Country of Regions (Part 3): Colin Woodard

-- B y   C o l i n   W o o d a r d
-- 
2011-10-03T00:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/the-real-u-s-map-a-country-of-regions-part-3-colin-woodard.html
When it comes to government and
politics, Americans often think of the 50 states as perhaps the
most important signifiers of their identities and allegiances.  But, despite the ties that Californians, New Yorkers,
Mainers and others hold with the states where they live, work
and vote, their regional identities -- as Deep Southerners,
Yankees, Far Westerners and so on -- often reveal more about who
they are, and sometimes trump any shared sense of U.S.
statehood.  As I’ve argued in Parts  1  and  2  of this series, the U.S.
can be most productively understood and analyzed as a collection
of 11  nations , spilling over borders with Canada and  Mexico ,
rather than as 50 states. These nations include Yankeedom, New
Netherland, the Midlands, Tidewater, Greater Appalachia and the
Deep South (all discussed in Parts  1  and  2 ), along with First
Nation, the Far West and the Left Coast (in upcoming segments),
and those discussed today, El Norte and New France -- two of the
nations most likely to achieve some form of internationally
sanctioned national identity in the 21st century.  From the beginning of their existence, the 11 nations have
been struggling with one another for advantage and influence,
with the biggest prize being control of the federal government.
Since 1877, the primary driving force in American politics
hasn’t been class struggle or tension between agrarian and
commercial interests, or even between partisan ideologies.
Ultimately, the key political struggles have been clashes of
values and interests between two coalitions of the ethno-
regional nations, one headed by the Deep South and the other by
Yankeedom.  American Alliances  Since the end of Reconstruction, no one nation has had any
hope of independently dominating the other 10. Instead, each has
formed alliances with like-minded regions. The most durable and
lasting coalition has been the one forged between Yankeedom and
the Left Coast in the 1840s, one that’s been influential in both
the culture wars and foreign policy. With its crusading utopian
agenda, Yankeedom has usually favored the creation of a frugal,
competent government, supported by a robust tax base, ably
managing the citizens’ shared assets.  The Left Coast has nearly identical views, although, in the
20th century, it has added environmental quality to the shared
agenda. And it has tempered Yankeedom’s messianic certainties by
showing that the world can be easily and frequently reinvented.
The Left Coast’s technological experiments range from Monterey-
style housing in the mid-19th century to the iPod in the early
21st.  From 1877 to 1897, these two nations, assisted by their
Civil War allies in the Midlands and their colonial minions in
the Far West, dominated the federal government. Their
congressional representatives pushed through policies designed
to enrich and empower their societies while weakening those in
the Deep South and Tidewater.  Yankeedom and the Left Coast have remained close allies.
Yet they are not the nations most likely to become independent
entities in the next century. This distinction belongs to three
of the oldest of the 11 nations. We’ll discuss two of them here,
and the third -- First Nation -- in a later installment of this
series.  El Norte  Thanks to the influence of the great 19th century Yankee
historians, we traditionally think of U.S. history as European
settlement of the continent, progressing from the beachheads of
Massachusetts and  Virginia  to the shores of the Pacific. But the
story of the Euro-American nations truly began way before the
Pilgrims, when European colonial forces arrived in our
hemisphere in the late 15th century, borne by  Spain ’s soldiers
and missionaries.  Because it was then the world’s superpower, Spain had a
head start on its 16th-century rivals, and in 1493 was granted
ownership of almost the entire Western Hemisphere (16 million
square miles) by Pope Alexander VI. By the time the first
Englishmen stepped off the boat at Jamestown, Spanish explorers
had trekked through what would be  Kansas , beheld the Great Smoky
Mountains of  Tennessee  and  North Carolina , and surveyed the
Grand Canyon. They had established colonies on the shores of
what are now Georgia and Virginia and, in  Florida , founded the
city of St. Augustine.  Indeed, the oldest European subculture in the U.S. is in
the arid hills of northern New Mexico and Southern Colorado -- a
region, El Norte, where people of Spanish heritage have been
living since 1595. They remain fiercely protective of their
Spanish heritage, taking umbrage at being lumped in with
Mexican-Americans who appeared in the region only in the 19th
and 20th centuries. Their leaders’ passion for genealogy rivals
that of Mayflower descendants. Subsequently, the Spanish Empire
set up additional colonial settlements across its northern
frontier from south  Texas  to the central  California  coast.  Today, this rapidly growing nation spreads from the U.S.-
Mexico border for a hundred miles or more in both directions,
encompassing south and west Texas, southern California and the
Imperial Valley, southern  Arizona , most of New Mexico and parts
of  Colorado , as well as the Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo
Leon, Coahuila, Chihuahua, Sonora and Baja California.
Overwhelmingly Hispanic, it has long been a hybrid of Anglo and
Spanish America, with an economy oriented toward the U.S.  The people of Mexico’s northern border states are seen, by
other Mexicans, as overly Americanized. Nortenos (northerners)
have a well-earned reputation for being more independent, self-
sufficient and adaptable than Mexicans from the hierarchical
society of Mexico’s more densely populated core. Long a hotbed
of Democratic reform and revolutionary sentiment, the northern
Mexican states have more in common with the Hispanic borderlands
of the southwestern U.S. -- historically, culturally,
economically and gastronomically -- than with the rest of
Mexico.  Split by an increasingly militarized border, El Norte, in
some ways, resembles  Germany  during the  Cold War : Two
populations with a common culture are separated by a large wall.
Despite the wishes of their political leaders in  Washington  and
Mexico City, many residents of El Norte would prefer to form a
third national state of their own. Charles Truxillo, a professor
of Chicano studies at the University of  New Mexico , has
predicted that such a sovereign state, a “La Republica del
Norte,” will be a reality by the end of the 21st century.  Whether or not this comes to pass, El Norte will be an
increasingly influential force within the U.S. The Pew Research
Center predicts that, by 2050, 29 percent of the  U.S. population 
will self-identify as Hispanic -- more than double the 2005
figure. And much of that growth will take place in El Norte.  The Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes has predicted that, so
long as tolerance prevails, the borderlands will become an
amalgamated, interdependent culture rather soon. “I have always
said it is a scar, not a border,” he has said. “But we don’t
want the scar to bleed again. We want the scar to heal.”  New France  Another independence-inclined nation is New France, which
can trace its origins to the fall of 1604 -- 16 years before the
Mayflower’s voyage. Today, New France is the most overtly
nationalistic of the 11 nations, and already has a nation-state-
in-waiting: the province of  Quebec .  New French culture blends the folkways of ancien regime
northern French peasantry with the traditions and values of the
aboriginal people whom the French explorers and colonists
encountered in northeastern  North America . Down-to-earth,
egalitarian and consensus-driven, the New French are far and
away the most liberal people on the continent, recent polls have
shown. Long oppressed by their British overlords, the New French
have, since the mid-20th century, imparted many of their
attitudes on the Canadian federation.  Today, New France includes the lower third of Quebec,
northern and northeastern New Brunswick and the Acadian (or
“Cajun”) enclaves of southern  Louisiana . ( New Orleans  is a
border city, mixing New French and Deep Southern elements.)
Securing an independent state will require, first, negotiating a
partition of Quebec with the inhabitants of First Nation.  Next, in Part 4, the Left Coast, the Far West and First
Nation.  (Colin Woodard, a correspondent for the Christian Science
Monitor and the Chronicle of Higher Education, is the author of
“The Lobster Coast,” “The Republic of Pirates” and “Ocean’s
End.” This is the third in a five-part series excerpted from
his new book, “American Nations: A History of the Eleven Rival
Regional Cultures of North America,” published Sept. 29 by
Viking. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Colin Woodard at  colin@colinwoodard.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 