-- 
Noyer Says He’s ‘Open’ to a Leveraged European Financial Stability Fund

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-03T13:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ecb-s-noyer-says-he-s-open-to-a-leveraged-european-rescue-fund.html
Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said he’s “open” to the idea of using borrowed money to
enhance the capabilities of a European rescue fund as policy
makers turn their focus to the next steps to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “It would be unrealistic to expect an increase in the EFSF
itself,” Noyer said in a speech today in Tokyo, referring to
the European Financial Stability Facility. “But I am personally
open to any scheme that would allow existing commitments to be
leveraged to provide greater intervention capacity.”  Euro-area finance chiefs will meet today in Luxembourg to
weigh the threat of a Greek default, grapple with how to shield
banks from the fallout and consider a further boost to the
rescue fund. A much-needed “liquidity backstop” for the region
must come from governments because the  European Central Bank ’s
mandate requires it to keep purchases of sovereign debt
“extremely limited,” said Noyer, who is a member of the ECB.  German lawmakers last week approved an expansion of the
rescue fund, setting the stage for the overhauled 440 billion
euro ($587 billion) facility to be in place by mid-October. If
approved by all 17 euro countries, the facility will obtain the
powers to buy bonds on the primary and secondary markets, offer
precautionary credit lines and enable capital infusions for
banks.  Growing concerns about the possibility of a Greek default
have affected French banks in particular, with shares of BNP
Paribas SA slumping 16 percent last month. While French banks’
dependence on dollar-funding has made them vulnerable to the
crisis, concerns about their exposure to debt in peripheral
 Europe  is “exaggerated,” Noyer said.  Providing Assurance  Separately, Noyer said that other central banks such as the
 Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of England  have been buying
“significant” amounts of  government bonds , providing markets
assurances against liquidity shortages.  “At the moment, the kind of insurance that most monetary
authorities provide may look cheap because inflation is
projected to stay low in the foreseeable future,” he said.
“But this equilibrium could be unstable in a different
inflation environment” and markets “seem to be aware of some
inflation tail risks,” he said.  The remarks come three days before the ECB’s Governing
Council makes its monthly interest rate decision. Noyer said
today that the growth outlook for advanced economies has dimmed.  “The last two months have brought changes to the world
economy,” Noyer said, according to a text of the speech
distributed by his office. “Growth perspectives in advanced
economies have significantly worsened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  