-- 
Egypt Dollar Bond Falls on Tantawi Comments, FDI Decline

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-10-03T13:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/egypt-dollar-bond-falls-on-tantawi-comments-fdi-decline-1-.html
Egypt ’s 2020 dollar bond dropped
after foreign direct investment slumped and the head of the
ruling military council made statements that may exonerate
former President  Hosni Mubarak , increasing the risk of unrest.  The 5.75 percent 10-year note fell, pushing the yield up
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.84 percent at
2:54 p.m. in Cairo. Five-year credit default swaps climbed 13
basis points to 485, according to data provider CMA, the highest
on a closing basis in almost a week. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
of stocks lost 2.8 percent.  “Investors are apprehensive about the developments on the
political front,” said Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income at
Cairo-based investment bank Beltone Financial Holding. “There’s
a fear more instability is in store because the gap between
what’s happening in  Tahrir Square  and what’s happening at the
military council is not narrowing.”  Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the Supreme Council of
Armed Forces, said yesterday the army didn’t receive orders to
shoot protesters. He testified last week at the trial of
Mubarak, who is charged with corruption and involvement in the
killing of protesters during the uprising that ousted him.  Foreign direct investment in Egypt fell 96 percent to $99
million in the fourth quarter ending June 30 compared with the
same period last year, state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported today.  Egypt is due to hold parliamentary elections from November.
The military agreed to amend the elections law to allow
political party candidates to run for seats set aside for
independents,  Al Ahram  newspaper reported yesterday.
Presidential elections will take place 45 to 60 days after a
constitutional referendum, the newspaper said. The military
council hasn’t agreed to protester demands for ending military
trials of civilians or ban Mubarak-era officials from running in
the elections.  CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  