-- 
Telefonica, Telecom Italia Say Network Review ‘Simply Crazy’

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-04T12:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/telefonica-telecom-italia-oppose-simply-crazy-eu-network-plan.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and
Europe’s other former phone monopolies are bridling at a fresh
regulatory review of their profits from copper networks, saying
the result may crimp proceeds needed to build faster fiber
lines.  The extent of EU regulation of telecommunications
investment is “simply crazy,” Telecom Italia Chief Executive
Officer Franco Bernabe said at a technology conference in
Brussels yesterday. The same day,  Neelie Kroes , the EU’s
commissioner for digital affairs, said the 27-member bloc would
review whether companies charge rivals too much for access to
copper lines.  European politicians, desperate to boost the use of faster
Web services to meet targets, aid economic growth and catch up
with  Asia , argue that profits from existing networks may make
the phone incumbents less willing to invest in new technologies.
The former monopolies, faced with falling revenue in their home
markets from traditional voice calls, say the reverse is true as
they need copper profits to invest in faster fiber networks.  By taking “copper prices down at the same time as they
want to stimulate fiber deployment, that is an equation that
doesn’t fit at all,” Jon Fredrik Baksaas, CEO of  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,
the largest Nordic phone company, said in an interview.  The European Commission yesterday unveiled two
consultations to examine prices for regulated wholesale access
to copper and fiber networks. The body is also considering how
to standardize wholesale pricing rules in EU markets.  High-Speed Targets  Operators weren’t expecting another consultation process
before more progress had been made on existing proposals,
Vivendi SA CEO Jean-Bernard Levy said.  To catch up to leading countries such as  South Korea , the
European Commission has called for 50 percent of European
households to have Internet connections above 100 megabits per
second by 2020, about 10 or 20 times typical current speeds. The
body has proposed using some of the EU’s structural funds, which
pay for infrastructure in poorer member-states, to finance
broadband development in certain areas and called for faster
release of unused bands of radio spectrum.  While some former monopolies attacked Kroes’s plans as
unwanted regulatory interference, operators that didn’t inherit
a network supported her proposal, and said the European
Commission needs to reassess how access prices are calculated.  Network Spat  “Network owners in many countries are making excessive
profits over their largely depreciated copper infrastructure,”
said  Ilsa Godlovitch , director of the  European Competitive
Telecommunication Association . “This means that consumers are
paying very high prices and investments on fiber networks are
just not happening.”  The association represents operators such as  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone company, and Spanish
broadband provider  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   Cesar Alierta, CEO of Telefonica,  Spain ’s biggest phone
operator, said that the network owners should be able to benefit
more from their investments.  “We will not invest for the benefit of those who do not
invest,” Alierta said in Brussels, referring to rival
operators. “The time has come to make the market rules work.”  The cost of building out next-generation networks is
helping drag down telecommunications shares. The 35-company
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications index has declined 16
percent this year.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
shares have fallen 10 percent and 23 percent, respectively.  Google Pressure  Access to fast networks is key for operators as the
industry develops new business models based on data services and
consumers flock to smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system to download
music, watch videos online and surf the Web.  One reason for former monopolies’ eagerness to guard
profits from copper networks is their failure to develop
lucrative new services, said  Patrik Karrberg,  a researcher in
the Information Systems Innovation Group at the  London School  of
Economics.  “They had, and continue to have, the option of going more
into services and some have been much better than others,”
Karrberg said in an interview. “In the current regulatory
environment, data is a commodity, but for a great video service,
for example, you can charge much more.”  Most European operators are seeing profits stagnate or
decline in their home markets because of competition and
mounting investment needs.  Profit Falls  Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s largest phone company, reported
a 6.5 percent decline in second-quarter profit before some
items. Telefonica saw second-quarter profit slump 27 percent as
domestic competition cut earnings.  France Telecom , that
country’s largest operator, posted a 2.2 percent decline in
first-half net income, and is beginning asset sales in Europe to
rebalance toward faster-growing markets.  In July, the CEOs of Vivendi, Deutsche Telekom, and
equipment supplier Alcatel-Lucent SA presented a joint strategy
for ensuring faster deployment of high-speed networks to the EU,
including proposals for new investment incentives and limits to
some types of regulation.  While former monopolies are calling for less state
regulation, they’re also complaining about unfair treatment from
U.S. technology companies such as Apple and Google, whose
bandwidth-hungry video services have supplanted phone companies’
own online offerings.  ‘Afraid of You’  Executives including France Telecom’s Stephane Richard last
year called for mandatory payments from Internet companies to
telecommunications operators to offset network costs. Since
then, the two sides may have become more conciliatory.  Google and France Telecom have held talks on working
together to reduce network costs, with other operators in
similar discussions, people familiar with the situation said in
June. Telenor’s Baksaas said that Google is in talks with
operators in an “industry-wide discussion as well as partner
discussions.”  “I’ve been speaking to all of them, and they’re afraid of
you too,” William Kennard, the U.S. ambassador to the EU, said
of Internet companies. “They know that they need access to your
customers.”  Operators may also be able to spur profit growth by
charging the heaviest users of scarce bandwidth more instead of
offering all-you-can-eat fixed- and mobile-data plans.  Phone companies “are going to have to go to consumption-
based billing,” said  Jim Balsillie , CEO of BlackBerry-maker
 Research in Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  “If someone drives a car 100
kilometers, and someone else drives a car 200 kilometers, it has
to cost them half as much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Brussels at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Brussels 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 