-- 
Eli Lilly, Mustafa Nevzat in Talks to Sell Drugs in 26 Nations

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-10-03T12:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/eli-lilly-mustafa-nevzat-in-talks-to-sell-drugs-in-26-nations.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the world’s biggest
maker of psychiatric drugs, is in talks with Mustafa Nevzat Ilac
Sanayii AS to sell the Turkish company’s treatments in 26
countries, said Mustafa Nevzat’s chief executive officer.  Negotiations are at an “advanced stage” and the two
companies aim to reach an agreement as soon as possible, Levent Selamoglu said in an interview on Sept. 28 at a drugmakers’
meeting in Istanbul.  Mustafa Nevzat , a closely held generic-drug maker also
known as MN Pharmaceuticals, was the first Turkish
pharmaceutical company to win a license to sell products in the
U.S. from the  Food and Drug Administration , according to the
company’s website. International companies sought to do business
with MN since it acquired the FDA license in 2006, Selamoglu
said. The company’s product range mostly includes injectable
medication, he said.  “We are aiming to sell our products with Lilly in
different markets including  Brazil  and other Latin American
countries as well as in  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa ,” Selamoglu
said.  The company’s products range from antidepressants to
diabetic treatments and antipsychotic agents, according to its
website.  Selamoglu said he’s not aware of any talks between the two
companies for  Eli Lilly  to buy a stake in MN. “This is
something shareholders may know,” he said.  Foreign Investors  The Wall Street Journal reported Sept. 1 that the U.S.
drugmaker was in early talks to buy a minority stake in
Istanbul-based MN. The talks might not result in a deal,
according to the newspaper.  Cengiz Sezen, MN’s chairman, and Selamoglu didn’t respond
to e-mailed questions about possible talks or return phone calls
from Bloomberg seeking comment.  MN has revenue of about $250 million a year from the sale
of about 100 million boxes of its products in  Turkey , Selamoglu
said. Turkey’s drug market was $9.2 billion in 2010, according
to the website of the Istanbul-based  Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association of Turkey.   Abdi Ibrahim Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret , Turkey’s biggest
pharmaceutical company with $834 million sales in 2010,
according to its website, said May 18 it was in talks with
foreign investors to sell a minority stake.  Zentiva NV, a Czech drugmaker, bought 75 percent of the
generic drug unit of Turkey’s Eczacibasi in 2007 for 460 million
euros ($613 million.) It purchased the remaining 25 percent
stake two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 