-- 
Emerging Equity Bears Turn Into Buyers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-10-04T10:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/emerging-equity-bears-turn-bullish.html
The longest losing streak for
developing-market equities in more than a decade is turning
investors who shunned the stocks a year ago into buyers after
valuations fell to the lowest levels since March 2009.  TCW Group Inc.’s Komal Sri-Kumar, who advised purchasing
options as insurance against emerging-market declines in October
2010, now recommends shares of consumer companies after
inflation slowed in  China  and central banks in Brazil and Turkey
cut interest rates.  HSBC Private Bank ’s Arjuna Mahendran is
adding Chinese stocks with dividend yields of more than 4
percent. Harris Private Bank’s  Jack Ablin  said he may boost
emerging-nation shares to 10 percent of holdings from 3 percent.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s emerging-market gauge sank 30 percent from its
May 2 high and slumped 23 percent in the three months to Sept.
30, trailing the advanced-nation index for four straight
quarters for the first time since Russia’s 1998 default, as
Europe’s debt crisis and concern the U.S. economy may contract
led investors to flee riskier securities. The drop sent shares
in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index to 1.5 times net assets, the
lowest level versus the MSCI World Index in 30 months.  “It may be time to start getting your toes wet,” Sri-
Kumar, who helps oversee about $120 billion as chief global
strategist at TCW in Los Angeles, said in a Sept. 27 phone
interview. “The emerging markets are not going to have the
recession of the kind I anticipate for the U.S. and Europe.”  Fund Outflows  MSCI’s developing-stock gauge trailed the MSCI World index
by 6.1 percentage points last quarter, the most since the third
quarter of 2008. Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 16 percent,
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 18 percent, the BSE India Sensitive
Index slid 13 percent and China’s Shanghai Composite Index
retreated 15 percent.  Emerging-market equity funds have posted nine straight
weeks of outflows, with investors withdrawing $2.6 billion in
the seven days ended Sept. 28, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.
Industrial companies and raw-materials producers led declines
during the past three months on concern falling demand from
advanced countries will erode profits.  The drop in energy and food prices that dragged the S&P
GSCI Spot Index of commodities down 12 percent last quarter has
given central banks room to reverse interest-rate increases that
had turned emerging-market stocks into laggards the previous
three quarters. Brazil’s central bank cut its benchmark interest
rate for the first time in two years in August, while Turkey
reduced borrowing costs to a record low. China has kept its
lending rate unchanged since July after three increases this
year.  Peak Inflation  “Maybe all of this mess is going to help them because it
will bring the peak in inflation earlier than it otherwise would
have been,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management in  London , said in a Sept. 23 interview on Bloomberg
Television. O’Neill coined the term BRIC in 2001 to describe
Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Emerging-market stocks began the fourth quarter with
losses. The MSCI gauge slid 2 percent to 834.96 at 11:03 a.m. in
London, extending yesterday’s 3.2 percent slump. The  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index has declined 3.8 percent in the past two days.  Barton Biggs , the founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP
in  New York , says it’s too early to invest in emerging markets
because government leaders haven’t found solutions for Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis or the faltering U.S. economic recovery.  Global Bears  Seventy-four percent of global investors surveyed by
Bloomberg last month said the euro-area economy will fall into
recession in the next 12 months. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said on Sept. 29 that the U.S. is facing a
“national crisis” with a jobless rate at or above 9 percent
since April 2009. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
opposed moves yesterday to increase the scale of a euro rescue
fund, damping speculation of a breakthrough in talks to quell
the debt crisis.  “When there is clarity, when the authorities move and do
something, emerging markets will be a fabulous place to
invest,” Biggs, the former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset
Management, said in a Sept. 22 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “I am not ready to make that bet yet.”  Valuations Fall  Emerging-market stocks trailed advanced-nation shares
during times of financial stress that sparked global losses in
the past two decades including Latin America’s so-called Tequila
Crisis in 1994 after a devaluation of the Mexican peso, Russia’s
1998 default on $40 billion of debt and the 2008 crisis sparked
by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The peak-to-
trough drop in the emerging-market index was 12 percentage
points bigger on average during the six retreats, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The likelihood that people continue to take money out of
risky asset classes continues to be there,” said Lee King Fuei,
a  fund manager  at London-based Schroders Plc, which oversaw
about $330 billion as of June 30. “In the shorter term, I don’t
see any particular catalyst that will reverse this.”  A year ago, Harris Private Bank’s Ablin told Bloomberg News
that emerging-market shares were “stretched.” Now the Chicago-
based chief investment officer says valuations have fallen
“back in line with reality” and investors should consider
adding to holdings.  Japan Buying  TCW’s Sri-Kumar advises buying in the consumer industries
of India and Brazil, where the  unemployment rate  was 6 percent
in August, a record low for the month. Mahendran, who helps
oversee about $499 billion as the Singapore-based Asian head of
investment strategy at HSBC Private Bank, favors Jiangsu
Expressway Co., a Chinese toll-road operator, and  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest mobile-phone company by users.  Faster growth in emerging markets means investment returns
will be higher, said Takahiro Mitani, president of Japan’s
Government Pension Investment Fund. The world’s largest public
pension fund, which oversees 114 trillion yen ($1.5 trillion),
will start investing in emerging-market stocks by the end of the
year, Mitani said in a Sept. 27 interview in Tokyo.  Emerging economies may expand 6.4 percent in 2011, four
times quicker than the 1.6 percent rate for developed nations,
the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  forecast in
September.  Developing-nation government debt will probably amount to
35 percent of emerging-market gross domestic product this year
and budget deficits will be 2.7 percent, compared with levels of
102 percent and 6.8 percent in advanced nations, according to
the fund’s Fiscal Monitor in June.  Hypermarcas, Tata Motors  The MSCI emerging-market index’s price-to-book ratio is 25
percent lower than its average of 2 during the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge trades at a
2.5 percent discount to the MSCI World Index, compared with a 17
percent premium a year ago.  Profits at companies in the emerging gauge jumped 23
percent on average in the second quarter, about three times
faster than the 7.8 percent growth in MSCI World index earnings,
the data show.  The MSCI Brazil Consumer Staples Index trades at 2.5 times
book value, or assets minus liabilities, 19 percent less than
its five-year average.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , the Sao Paulo-based maker
of consumer products and medicines, tumbled 40 percent last
quarter to the lowest level since April 2009.  The benchmark gauge for Indian makers of discretionary
consumer products has retreated to 3.8 times book value from 6.4
times a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) , the Mumbai-based maker of the world’s cheapest car,
tumbled 22 percent in the three months through September.  Rising Yields  Brazil’s central bank cut its benchmark Selic interest rate
by 0.5 percentage point to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after raising
borrowing costs eight times since April 2010. While the  Reserve
Bank  of India increased interest rates on Sept. 16, traders of
interest-rate swaps are pricing in the possibility of cuts in
the next year.  One-year interest-rate swaps in India, which reflect the
cost of receiving the overnight money-market rate, traded at
7.91 percent yesterday, below the 8.25 percent repurchase rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nanjing-based Jiangsu Expressway’s rising dividend yield
lured HSBC’s Mahendran, who accurately predicted emerging
markets would “take a breather” in the first half. The company
has payouts equivalent to 7.8 percent of its share price, more
than double the 3 percent yield on the MSCI World index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Far Better’  The stock, which fell 17 percent last quarter, may rally 54
percent in the next 12 months, according to the average of 13
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Mobile’s dividend yield has climbed to 4.2 percent
from an average 2.6 percent since 2003, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Hong Kong-based company has about $50
billion of cash available to invest or return to shareholders,
more than  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company by
market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fundamentals of the emerging-market economies are
pretty strong,” said Kelvin Tay, the Singapore-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management. “On a medium-to
longer-term basis, the emerging-market space looks far better
than advanced nations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  