-- 
Enterprise Products Breached Contract, Energy Transfer Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-10-03T15:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/enterprise-products-breached-contract-energy-transfer-says.html
Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) 
abandoned an agreement to build a pipeline while planning to
pursue a similar project with another company, Energy Transfer
Partners LP said in a lawsuit.  Energy Transfer sued Enterprise in Texas state court in
Dallas on Sept. 30, alleging breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty and unfair competition. Dallas-based Energy
Transfer also sued the third company,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , alleging
interference with contract.  Enterprise, the biggest U.S. pipeline operator, formed a
joint venture with Energy Transfer in April to build a 400,000-
barrel-a-day crude oil line from Cushing, Oklahoma, to Houston.
Enterprise, based in Houston, called off the project Aug. 19.
The company announced a partnership with Calgary-based Enbridge
on Sept. 29 to build an 800,000-barrel-a-day pipeline between
the two cities.  “Enterprise first tried to persuade” Energy Transfer “to
terminate the joint venture due to the new pipeline’s supposed
lack of commercial viability, while simultaneously plotting to
establish a new joint venture to build the same pipeline,”
Energy Transfer said in its complaint. “When Enterprise could
not persuade Energy Transfer to terminate the joint venture,
Enterprise simply pretended that the joint venture never
existed.”  Energy Transfer is seeking a share of the profits of the
pipeline as well as unspecified damages, including punitive
damages.  The lawsuit is  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  v. Enterprise
Products Partners LP, 11-12667, District Court, Dallas County,
Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 