-- 
Tepco to Cut Jobs, 2.5 Trillion Yen Costs After Fukushima

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-03T10:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/tepco-must-cut-2-5-trillion-yen-costs-over-10-years-panel-says.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. has to cut
7,400 jobs and reduce costs by 2.5 trillion yen ($32.5 billion)
during the next 10 years, a government panel investigating the
utility’s finances after the Fukushima nuclear disaster said.  Tepco, as the company is called, is expected to have to pay
1.02 trillion yen in the year to March 31 in compensation to
those affected by the disaster, according to the report. Tepco
may have to pay damages of 897.2 billion yen annually in
subsequent years, the panel said, without saying how long the
payments would last.  The panel headed by Kazuhiko Shimokobe, a lawyer, provided
the first official estimates of the costs of the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant that was crippled by the March 11 quake
and tsunami. Payments for reputational damage and losses on
assets may total 2.62 trillion yen, the 222-page report said.  The government is trying to avert the bankruptcy of a
company that supplies power to 29 million customers in the
political and economic heart of Japan. The reactor meltdowns at
the Fukushima station forced 160,000 people to flee radiation
and damaged fishing, farming and forestry businesses.  The panel’s findings will form the basis of a plan to be
drafted by Tepco and the Nuclear Damage Compensation
Facilitation Corp., which was established to help compensation
payments to those affected by the disaster, Shimokobe told
reporters in Tokyo today.  Capital Injections  The business plan to be compiled by late October will
include Tepco’s restructuring steps and needs to be approved by
trade and industry minister  Yukio Edano .  The plan will also pave the way for the government to beef
up Tepco’s finances by issuing  government bonds  the company can
immediately redeem or through capital injections. The
compensation body was created by an act of parliament in August
with 2 trillion yen of funds.  To qualify for the government support Tepco must carry out
“thorough reforms,” Takehiko Sugiyama, the head of the
compensation corporation, said at the opening of its
headquarters in central Tokyo on Sept. 26.  “We are aware that the report includes tough statements
about us,” Tepco  said  in a statement after the release. “We
take the points raised seriously and will work under the
supervision of the Nuclear Damage Compensation Facilitation
Corp. to draft the special business plan.”  Funding Shortages  Tepco may face 8.6 trillion yen in funding shortages during
the next decade if none of its nuclear power plants come back
online and electricity prices are not increased, the report
said. As well as Fukushima Dai-Ichi, the company’s nearby
Fukushima Dai-Ni plant was shut down after the quake and five
out of seven reactors at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant on the
other coast of  Japan  are idled.  No Japanese nuclear reactors have restarted since the
accident. Utilities are carrying out so-called stress tests on
reactors as part of safety checks in the wake of the Fukushima
disaster.  Tepco won’t be allowed to raise electricity rates without
cost cuts acceptable to the investigation panel, Yukio Edano,
the head of the trade and industrial ministry, which regulates
the electricity industry, said on Sept. 16.  Tepco withdrew a plan to raise electricity rates by as much
as 15 percents after receiving criticism from the panel members,
 Kyodo News  reported last week.  Overestimating Costs  The government will examine Tepco’s cost-cutting efforts
and discuss “issues including how electricity prices should be
set,” Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today.  The utility overestimated costs used to calculate
electricity tariffs for its customers by 592.6 billion yen in
the last 10 years, the report said.  Decommissioning four damaged reactors at the plant, located
about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo, will cost 1.15
trillion yen. The cost may be higher than the estimate because
of “uncertain factors” in the decommissioning process, the
report said.  The panel called on Tepco to reduce pension payouts to
former and current employees. The company can also raise 707.4
billion yen from asset sales, according to the panel. Earlier
Tepco said it would sell assets worth 600 billion yen.  Tepco promised not to seek interest rate relief or debt
forgiveness in letters sent to banks while the utility was
seeking loans in June, the report said.  Share Dilution  Given Tepco had net assets of 1.29 trillion yen at the end
of March, it would be “difficult to ask creditors for debt
wavers or debt-to-equity swaps,” the report said.  The panel also called for Tepco stockholders to give up
dividend payments and accept dilution of shares should the
utility need capital injection from the compensation body.  “It isn’t possible under current laws,” Shimokobe said
when asked why the panel didn’t recommend debt relief for Tepco.
There needs to be a legal framework so that banks can accept
such arrangements, Shimokobe said.  Tepco in May reported a full-year loss of 1.25 trillion
yen, the biggest for a non-financial company in Japan. That was
followed by a quarterly loss of 572 billion yen announced in
August, as the utility booked more charges for the disaster.  Shares in the utility fell 0.4 percent today to close at
239 yen in Tokyo. The stock is down almost 90 percent since the
day before the earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  