-- 
Merrill Financial Advisers Rebuffed by Top Court on Bias Suit

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-03T14:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/merrill-financial-advisers-rebuffed-by-top-court-on-bias-suit.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
revive a bid to sue  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit
for allegedly paying 700 black financial advisers less than
their white counterparts.  The justices today turned away an appeal by 17 current and
former company financial advisers who sought to press a class
action race-discrimination suit against Merrill, which Bank of
America bought in 2009.  The plaintiffs told the Supreme Court in their appeal that
Merrill, from 2001 to 2006, was responsible for a “large and
statistically significant wage gap” between black and white
advisers. The appeal said blacks fared poorly under Merrill’s
policy of letting advisers work together on teams and under the
company’s system for distributing the accounts of retiring or
departing financial advisers.  A federal trial judge said the 700 advisers didn’t have
enough in common for the case to proceed as a single class
action. An appeals court then said the advisers couldn’t appeal
that ruling.  Merrill contended that the case bore similarities to the
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. class action suit rejected by the  Supreme
Court  in June.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, is based in
Charlotte, North Carolina. Merrill’s parent company wasn’t named
in the suit.  The suit is one of two pressed against the company by
George McReynolds, a Nashville broker. The same trial judge,
U.S. District Judge Robert Gettleman in  Chicago , earlier this
year threw out a second suit by McReynolds focusing on retention
bonuses.  The Supreme Court case is McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, 10-
1534.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 