-- 
Errors Bedevil Census Bureau in Drawing U.S. Population Portrait

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/errors-bedevil-census-bureau-in-drawing-u-s-population-portrait.html
Hundreds of thousands of U.S.
couples, as well as Americans living beyond the age 100, simply
disappeared last year. At least they did according to recent
statistical errors by the Census Bureau.  The agency last week acknowledged it had over-counted same-
sex households by almost 30 percent, and its initial prediction
for the number of centenarians fell short last month by more
than 50 percent. The bureau is also facing challenges from
cities claiming under-counting in last year’s decennial tally,
as well as criticism of its flagship annual survey.  The glitches were both an embarrassment for the bureau and
a reminder of just how hard it is to get an army of temporary
workers -- or even the agency’s professionals -- to capture an
accurate portrait of a changing country of 308.7 million.  “If you don’t have the number right, you can’t make the
right policy with the resources that you have,” said Phil
Sparks, co-director of the Washington-based  Census Project , a
nonpartisan coalition of groups advocating for a fair and
accurate census. “If it’s a big city, we could be talking about
billions of federal dollars spread over 10 years.”  The agency on Sept. 27 said the number of same-sex
households grew to 646,464 in 2010 from 358,390 in 2000.
Officials said they had revised down the 2010 figure, citing
flaws in the earlier count. The original count had found an
increase to 901,997 from 594,391.  Confusing Questionnaire  The questionnaire’s layout confused some survey
participants into checking the wrong sex, said the officials at
the agency, whose overall record is generally so good that
challenges to previous census counts have yielded minuscule
changes to the tally.  “It looks like the census form in 2010 could’ve had an
effect on artificially inflating the number of same-sex
spouses,” Martin O’Connell, chief of the fertility and family
statistics branch of the bureau’s Social, Economic and Housing
Statistics Division, said in a telephone interview.  The corrected figures won’t affect government funding
because the federal Defense of Marriage Act already prohibits
extending benefits such as medical care and housing allowances
to same-sex couples. Still, the mistake provided ammunition to
gay-marriage foes, who said the smaller same-sex population
should make politicians less wary about opposing such unions.  Years to Fix  Census data is the most complete measure of same-sex
couples. Researchers use it to extrapolate information such as
the size of the gay community, said  Gary Gates , a demographer at
the UCLA School of Law’s Williams Institute, which studies
sexual orientation and gender identity law and public policy.  “The need for accuracy is even more acute because of the
limited data resources on the LGBT population,” Gates said.  Because of the complexity of changing the forms that were
at the heart of the problem, it may be years before the
Suitland, Maryland-based bureau is able to yield more accurate
data, he said.  The Census Bureau has no plans to reclassify the opposite-
sex couples who were initially categorized as same-sex,
according to Michael Cook, a spokesman. That means about 255,000
people have disappeared from some demographic data.  Overestimating Centenarians  The agency also overestimated the number of Americans
thought to be living 100 years or longer. Six years ago the
census predicted that the country would be home to 114,000
centenarians by 2010. Census officials in 2009 lowered their
estimate to 64,024, though even that projection was high. The
actual number was 53,364.  While this mistake also won’t have an impact on federal
funding, other inaccuracies can. Alleged undercounts in the 2010
tally have led cities such as  New York  and Miami to challenge
the results.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  claimed in March that the
Census Bureau missed counting as many as 225,000 residents. A
shift of only 107,060 people would have resulted in the loss of
one congressional seat from New York, instead of two.  Census counts determine the distribution of federal aid,
which can affect how a municipality provides services from job
training to health care to education, said Mark Jaffe, president
and chief executive officer of the Greater New York Chamber of
Commerce.  “That matters to businesses because even though they’re
not required to provide health care, it is important to have a
healthy, well-trained workforce,” he said.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  ‘Far From Perfect’  The likely problem with the city counts were the temporary
census workers tasked with tracking down residents who didn’t
respond to the initial mail-in form, said Patricia Becker, head
of the Southeast Michigan Census Council, a group that promotes
access to and use of demographic statistics.  “It’s a lot easier to mark something vacant than it is to
find someone who lives there,” Becker said. “Temporary
enumerators are far from perfect.”  The census bureau’s  Count Question Resolution  appeals
process, which began in June, may determine how much of $400
billion in federal funds cities and states get based on their
population. There were 73  challenges  from jurisdictions as of
Sept. 30.  Following the 2000 census, challenges unearthed
discrepancies in 1,183 of the 39,000 jurisdictions, or less than
3 percent of all U.S. jurisdictions, according to the census
bureau. The corrections resulted in a net gain of just 2,697
residents. In the case of  California , the challenge resulted in
the addition of five residents.  ‘Honest and Transparent’  Adjustments to the 1990 Census added about 8,400 people to
the official tally. The final results measuring the accuracy of
the 2010 Census won’t be available until next year.  “We at the census bureau, from our evaluations of past
censuses, know that no census of the U.S. is perfect,”  Robert Groves , director of the agency, wrote May 16 on the bureau’s web
site. “Whatever happens during Count Question Resolution, we
seek to be cooperative, honest, and transparent in what we do.”  Some jurisdictions cited wide variations between the 2009
population estimates in the American Community Survey and the
2010 results.  “The ACS has its problems because it doesn’t have enough
of a sample size,” Becker said. “This is something that’s
fixable.”  ‘The Gold Standard’  For all its problems, the agency remains the premier
population-data center in the world, said  William Frey , a
demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington who has
been studying the census for more than 30 years.  “The  U.S. Census  is considered to be the gold standard,”
Frey said. “Scientifically they’ve done as well as they can.
They have a very good research staff there.”  Still, the recent embarrassments didn’t end with bad
counts. Last week, the bureau had to confess to a problem with
the work habits of its employees.  “Recently, management and the union received concerns from
staff who observed a few staff members who appeared to be
napping in public areas, such as the lobby or library,” the
agency said in a Sept. 28 statement. “That behavior is
unacceptable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 