-- 
Let States Reform Education, Don’t Let Them Set a Low Bar: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-03T00:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/let-states-reform-education-don-t-let-them-set-a-low-bar-view.html
In issuing waivers to states under
the  Elementary and Secondary Education Act  (aka No Child Left
Behind), releasing them from a 2014 deadline for achieving 100
percent proficiency on standardized reading and math exams,
President  Barack Obama  rightly chastised Congress for its
failure to bring the law’s decade-old requirements up to date.  Unfortunately, neither the president nor Secretary of
Education  Arne Duncan  has given Congress strong guidance on how
to proceed.  In fending off the immediate crisis -- Duncan says more
than 80 percent of schools would fail to achieve 100 percent
proficiency by 2014 -- the administration risks allowing states
off the hook on accountability.  The underlying problem is  summed up  neatly in the Education
Department’s own explanation of the waivers: “In many states,
parents are being told that their children are proficient based
on a low bar. Many of them are being lied to because their
children aren’t really being prepared for college and careers.
Under ESEA flexibility, States will set standards based on
expectations for success in college and careers.” In other
words, the very states that have watered down their standards
are being given far greater freedom to set new bars.  Yet it’s vital that we have some sort of barometer of how
students and schools are faring. The standardized tests used in
the last decade are hardly perfect, but they do provide a
relatively accurate picture of the state of American education.
(Note: It’s not a pretty one.)  There is nothing wrong with the idea of states being
laboratories of innovation, so long as we ensure that they fully
disclose scores from meaningful tests, set rigorous standards
and take sensible steps to intervene in failing situations. It
is also understandable that local and state officials chafed
under the steps laid out for reform if schools failed to meet
their  Adequate Yearly Progress  requirements, which were
relatively strict and didn’t prove to be one-size-fits-all.  It’s promising that 45 states and the  District of Columbia 
have demonstrated their interest in rigorous testing standards
by signing on to the  Common Core State Standards  initiative, an
effort pushed largely by governors to establish sensible,
exacting performance benchmarks, to be in place by 2014. But it
should be clear by now that we also need a universal benchmark.
If all states won’t adopt one voluntarily, the federal
government may have to step in.  Good ideas for education reform are floating around the
capital. We support the administration’s emphasis on incentives
-- such as the competitive grants given out by its Race to the
Top program -- rather than an emphasis on punishment for
failure.  A group of Republican senators led by  Lamar Alexander  of
 Tennessee , a former education secretary, are introducing
legislation that would retain strict standards for annual
assessments and, at the same time, streamline federal financing,
give states power over teacher licensing, eliminate the Adequate
Yearly Progress system and require that states disaggregate test
data -- that is, not simply release the results from entire
student populations but break down scores by racial, economic
and other subgroups. The bipartisan push toward greater emphasis
on  teacher evaluation  is also laudable, so long as it doesn’t
dilute the focus on student performance.  Lawmakers and educators must also cope with several
troubling trends NCLB has helped identify: Why do test results
often vary widely within individual schools? Why do many
minority students fare poorly even at high-achieving suburban
schools? Why have relatively few parents taken their children
out of failing schools when provided with an alternative? Why,
as a  recent study  by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute pointed
out, do 30 percent to 50 percent of America’s best students fail
to maintain their elite performance over time?  Let’s hope Congress gives those issues serious thought as
it works to reauthorize NCLB, which, despite its flaws, was the
impetus for a decade of innovative reforms for the nation’s
100,000 public schools.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 