-- 
EU Must Ensure Access for Securities Clearing, Trade Groups Say

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-10-03T16:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/eu-must-ensure-access-for-securities-clearing-trade-groups-say.html
European Union regulators reviewing
laws on clearing and post-trade processing must introduce
“explicit and detailed” open-access requirements to ensure
users have a choice, trade associations representing fund
managers, brokers, issuers and investors said.  “Such open access requirements should ensure that a
clearing house must accept instruments for clearing regardless
of the venue on which they are traded,” seven lobby groups
including the Investment Management Association and the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe  wrote in a letter to
the European Commission dated Sept. 30. “A venue must provide
data feeds and other assistance to any clearing house that wants
to clear the instrument in question.”  European governments are close to a deal on rules for
trading of over-the-counter derivatives in the region, two
people familiar with the discussions said on Sept. 29. Points of
discussion on the draft law have included what access
clearinghouses should be granted to trade data from exchanges,
whether to fully apply the clearing rules to pension funds, and
what powers should be granted to the  European Securities and
Markets Authority .  “We are concerned that the forthcoming European Markets
and Infrastructure Regulation does not take proper account of
the likely concentration of clearing provision,” the trade
groups wrote in a letter to  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services commissioner who proposed the original version of the
draft law was proposed in September 2010.  Almunia Concerned  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said Sept. 15
he’s “concerned” that a proposed tie-up between Deutsche
Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext may monopolize the  derivatives
market . Customers and rivals have said they are concerned the
two would dominate clearing and derivatives.  Some clearinghouses act as central counterparty to every
buy and sell order executed on an exchange, reducing the risk
that a trader defaults on his obligation in a deal. Customers
pay fees for clearing, or post-trade processing services, which
include verifying that a buyer has the funds to execute a trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  