-- 
EU Said to Near Collateral Deal

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-03T16:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/eu-said-to-near-collateral-deal-removing-obstacle-to-second-greek-bailout.html
European governments are close to
resolving  Finland ’s demand for collateral to underpin bailout
loans, removing an obstacle to  Greece ’s second rescue package,
three people familiar with the discussion said.  Finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg today are
considering whether the proposal is acceptable to all 17 euro
countries. The goal is a package with relatively unattractive
terms so that Finland would be the only country to force Greece
to put up collateral, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Under the proposal, Greece would put up collateral in
exchange for Finland’s guarantees to the European Financial
Stability Facility, the people said. Finland in turn will forgo
potential earnings from the Greek rescue deal, such as profits
earned by the EFSF and the collateral might have junior status
in case of a default, the people said.  Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said euro finance
chiefs will discuss the collateral issue today, “but can we
find a solution, that’s impossible to say. We are trying to find
a solution that everyone can accept.”  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said any collateral
arrangement should be available for all countries in the single-
currency region. “I don’t think one country will be considered
privileged vis-a-vis others,” he said in an interview in
Luxembourg.  ‘Waive Your Rights’  “We will have an instrument that will be adequately
priced,” Frieden said. “In other words, if you take that
collateral, you have to waive your rights to something else. I
consider this as a minor technical issue that is about to be
solved.”  Deals on collateral have been close before. Finland reached
an arrangement with Greece on Aug. 16, only to see it rejected
by other euro countries.  Greece still faces hurdles to winning the 109 billion-euro
($146 billion) follow-up package, including doubts over its
ability to squeeze additional savings out of a population weary
of two years of budget cuts and tax increases.  Finland’s plea for collateral prompted Slovakia,  Slovenia ,
 Austria  and the Netherlands to consider demanding similar
treatment, adding to the nuisances that dogged  Europe ’s effort
at crisis-fighting unity.  The collateral clash pitted Greece against AAA rated
Finland, home to a euro-skeptic movement that catapulted to
third place in April elections by opposing further bailouts.  While the party now known as “The Finns” didn’t make it
into the ruling coalition, it captured the Finnish mood and
hardened the stance of new Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  in the
euro-rescue bartering.  Tonight’s meeting started at 5 p.m. in Luxembourg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  