-- 
EU Signals Investors May Have to Take Bigger Losses in Second Greek Rescue

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-04T17:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/eu-signals-investors-may-have-to-take-bigger-losses-in-second-greek-rescue.html
European governments hinted that
bondholders may be saddled with bigger losses on Greek debt,
intensifying market jitters that a second aid package designed
to quell the fiscal crisis might unravel.  Finance ministers considered recrafting a July deal that
foresaw investors contributing 50 billion euros ($66 billion) to
a 159 billion-euro rescue. The debt exchanges and rollovers
targeted bondholder losses of 21 percent.  “We will have to assess if the conditions are still met,”
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters after
a two-day euro meeting in Luxembourg. “It is completely clear
that this statement includes the possibility that that is no
longer the case and adjustments are needed.”  Together with plans to get more firepower out of the
region’s 440 billion-euro rescue fund, the review of Greece’s
aid package was a response to growing international frustration
with  Europe ’s inability to get to grips with the crisis after 18
months of incremental steps marked by clashes between Germany,
 France  and the European Central Bank.  European stocks fell for a third day and investors shunned
riskier countries’ bonds amid concern that the crisis is
careening out of control. The euro has dropped about 8 percent
since the end of August, trading at $1.3288 as of 6 p.m. in
 London .  Finance ministers widened the options for government
leaders in a gauntlet of crisis-fighting meetings, from an Oct.
9 get-together of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to a European Union summit on Oct. 17-
18.  Insulating Italy  Europe’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to repair Greece’s recession-struck economy while
insulating Italy and  Spain  and shoring up banks that the
 International Monetary Fund  says face as much as 300 billion
euros in credit risks.  The stress on banks in Europe’s better-off economies was in
the spotlight today with shares in Dexia SA, a French-Belgian
lender, plunging on concern it will require a second bailout.
The French and Belgian governments vowed “all necessary
measures” to protect clients and will guarantee all Dexia’s
loans.  Yesterday’s meeting of the euro-area ministers yielded an
agreement to pursue “technical revisions” to the July accord
on private sector burden-sharing, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters early today. He spoke of
“changes” to the Greek outlook that spurred the reassessment.  Debt Swap  Juncker gave no details about a possible recalibration of
the “voluntary” debt exchange, the new element in the follow-
up package hammered out after last year’s 110 billion-euro
lifeline failed to stabilize Greece. The Institute of
International Finance industry group estimates that the debt
swap, still being negotiated, will amount to a writedown of 21
percent.  “No, no,” Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  told
reporters today when asked about deeper writedowns. “I insist:
no.”  European leaders have gone back and forth over the sanctity
of bond contracts as the crisis escalated. A November 2010
pledge to rule out writedowns unravelled a month later, only to
be reaffirmed in July. The latest about-face came after seven
countries including  Germany , Europe’s dominant economy, weighed
calling for Greek writedowns of as much as 50 percent, two
European officials said.  Credibility ‘Dent’  “The reopening is probably going to be quite bad for the
markets,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “There is a big dent to European credibility.”  The ministers also pushed back a decision on the release of
Greece’s next 8 billion-euro loan installment until after Oct.
13. It was the second postponement of a vote originally slated
for yesterday as part of last year’s lifeline to Greece.  Scrounging for savings, the Greek cabinet on Oct. 2
announced 6.6 billion euros of cuts, mostly by slashing public
payrolls. Greece will “very likely” have to make extra
reductions for 2013 and 2014, a two-year phase that will be the
focus of the rest of the review by EU,  European Central Bank  and
IMF officials, EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said.  Deficit Goal  Greece’s revised 2011 deficit goal may be 8.5 percent of
gross domestic product compared with a previous target of 7.6
percent, Rehn said. He called the new target “plausible” and
lauded Greece’s “important steps” toward further savings next
year.  While an Oct. 13 meeting to decide on the next payout was
canceled, Juncker said he is “nevertheless optimistic when it
comes to the issue of the disbursement” by the end of October.
The decision now dovetails with an Oct. 17-18 summit of European
government leaders to address the crisis. Juncker said Greece
can pay its bills in the meantime.  “ Greece  is not the scapegoat of the euro zone,” Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday. “Greece is
a country with structural difficulties.”  Finance ministers held a first discussion over how to
further enhance the region’s rescue fund, setting aside a plea
by Schaeuble to postpone that debate until the remaining
countries have endorsed the fund’s latest upgrade.  Fourteen of the 17 euro countries have approved the
reinforcement, which will empower the European Financial
Stability Facility to buy bonds on the primary and secondary
markets, offer precautionary credit lines and enable capital
infusions for banks.  Credit Lines  Juncker announced “good progress” on the credit lines and
bank-recapitalization tools. Avoiding the word “leveraging,”
he said work is under way to scale up the fund’s capacity
without requiring each country to chip in more.  “We are checking if yes or no we could increase the
efficiency of the different instruments,” Juncker said. Asked
whether the ECB would be tapped to boost the fund’s clout, he
said: “I don’t think that this will be the main avenue of our
considerations.”  The ministers also smoothed a snag en route to a second
Greek package by settling the terms under which collateral will
be offered to AAA rated  Finland , home to a euro-skeptic movement
that catapulted to third place in April elections by opposing
further bailouts.  Finnish Mood  While the party now known as “The Finns” didn’t make it
into the ruling coalition, it captured the Finnish mood and
hardened the stance of new Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  in the
euro-rescue bartering.  Under the accord, Greek bonds will be transferred from
Greek banks to a trustee, which will sell them and invest the
proceeds in AAA rated bonds with maturities of 15 to 30 years.  In exchange for the special treatment, Finland will speed
its payments into a planned permanent rescue fund and forego a
share of profits from EFSF emergency loans. Collateral wouldn’t
cover its entire Greek exposure. In the event of default, it
couldn’t cash in on the collateral until Greece’s official loans
mature, a wait that might last 30 years.  “It’s a complicated financial structure,” said EFSF Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Regling, who brokered the collateral
arrangement. He and Juncker said Finland is the only country
likely to take advantage of it.  Regling deserves “the  Nobel prize  for economics or the
Nobel peace prize” for engineering the compromise, Rehn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  