-- 
Euro Reaches Decade Low Versus Yen on Signs Debt Crisis Weighing on Growth

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-10-04T12:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/euro-reaches-decade-low-versus-yen-amid-signs-of-slowing-european-growth.html
The euro touched the lowest in more
than a decade versus the yen after European governments signaled
bondholders may have to take bigger losses on Greek debt,
deepening concern the debt crisis will damp recovery prospects.  The 17-nation currency reached an eight-month low versus
the dollar as global stocks slumped. Russia’s ruble fell for a
fifth day versus the dollar on concern the euro-area debt crisis
will hurt oil demand. The Australian dollar declined to the
least in more than a year versus the greenback after the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  held its key rate at 4.75 percent.  “Central banks are now rebalancing their reserves and
whereas earlier in the year that meant buying euros and non-
dollar currencies, we’re now in the reverse situation,” said
Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
New York. “That’s probably amplifying the pressures that are
coming from safe-haven flows, which tend to support the
dollar.”  The euro was at 101.32 yen at 8:49 a.m. in New York from
100.97 yen yesterday. It dropped to as low as 100.76, the least
since June 2001. The common currency rose 0.2 percent to
$1.3205, from $1.3176, after touching $1.3146, the weakest since
Jan. 13. The ruble depreciated to 32.81 per dollar, from 32.57,
bound for its weakest close in more than two years. The
Australian dollar slid 0.8 percent to 94.49 U.S. cents. It fell
to 94.14 cents earlier, the least since Sept. 20, 2010.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  equity index dropped 1.6 percent and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.1 percent.  Leader Remarks  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will
speak to the European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee at 9 a.m. New York time and Federal Reserve President
Ben S. Bernanke will testify before a congressional panel about
the economic outlook at 10 a.m.  European finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg considered
“technical revisions” to a July deal that foresaw investors
contributing 50 billion euros to a 159 billion-euro rescue. That
“private sector involvement” includes debt swaps and
rollovers.  “As far as PSI is concerned, we have to take into account
that we have experienced changes since the decision we have
taken on July 21,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers,
told reporters today. “These are technical revisions we are
discussing.”  Greek Decision  The ministers also pushed back a decision on the release of
 Greece ’s next loan installment until after Oct. 13. It was the
second postponement of a vote originally slated for yesterday as
part of the 110 billion-euro lifeline granted to Greece last
year.  “Debate about PSI being back on the agenda raises the risk
of a disorderly default, with negative connotations for the
banking sector,” said CIBC’s Stretch.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, reached 79.823, the highest level since Jan.
13, before trading at 79.627. The greenback tends to appreciate
during periods of economic and financial turmoil as investors
take refuge in the world’s main reserve currency.  The U.S. currency gained 9 percent in the past month in the
second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation peers
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The
yen appreciated 9.2 percent in the same period.  Growth Forecast  Goldman Sachs cut its global 2012 economic growth forecast,
adding it expects a mild recession in  Germany  and  France  and a
deeper downturn in the euro area’s periphery over the next few
quarters, economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in a
note yesterday.  Goldman also lowered its end-2011 forecast for the euro to
$1.38 from an earlier projection for it to trade at $1.40. The
common currency will be at 106 yen in three months, compared
with a previous estimate of 108 yen, the bank said in a separate
report.  “There isn’t much progress in containing the sovereign
problem, and  Europe  will possibly slip into recession,” said
Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign-bond department in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest listed
bank. “That’s negative for the euro.”  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said the euro’s
weakness against the yen is “extreme” and isn’t good for the
stability of the global economy.  The euro’s 14-day relative strength index versus the dollar
and the yen were both below 30, a level that some traders see as
signaling an asset’s price has fallen too rapidly and may be
poised for a rebound.  “We may see some buying back of the euro given the
currency has been oversold,” said Mizuho’s Suzuki. “It’s going
to be short-lived.”  The ruble declined after Urals crude, the main Russian oil
blend, fell 1.6 percent yesterday to its lowest close since Feb.
15. The commodity traded little changed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  