-- 
European Stocks Slide Amid Debt-Crisis Concern; Rio Tinto Drops

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-10-03T16:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-on-debt-concern-asian-shares-drop.html
European stocks fell for a second
day, extending losses from the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s biggest
quarterly drop since 2008, as concern deepened the region’s debt
crisis will curb growth.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s biggest
mining companies, declined more than 1.5 percent as copper
tumbled to a 14-month low in  London .  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Societe
Generale SA led losses in banking shares.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  sank to a one-year low.  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.1 percent to 223.62 in London. The
measure slumped 17 percent in the third quarter, its largest
drop since the final three months of 2008, which followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. The gauge fell for five
straight months through September amid concern  Greece ’s debt
crisis will spread to other countries in the region and as
reports showed economic growth is slowing.  “We need to see some action in the next one or two months,
or it will be too late to avoid a recession,” said Philipp Baertschi, chief strategist at Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG in Zurich,
where he helps oversee the equivalent of about $110 billion.
“It’s too early to jump into the market and catch the falling
knife.” He has an “underweight” stance on equities.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets, except for Ireland.  Germany ’s DAX slumped 2.3
percent, France’s CAC 40 declined 1.9 percent and the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 lost 1 percent.  EFSF Enhancement  Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said he’s “open”
to the idea of using borrowed money to enhance the capabilities
of the European Financial Stability Facility, the euro area’s
rescue fund.  “It would be unrealistic to expect an increase in the EFSF
itself,” Noyer said in a speech today in  Tokyo . “But, I am
personally open to any scheme that would allow existing
commitments to be leveraged to provide greater intervention
capacity.”  Euro-area finance chiefs meet today in Luxembourg to weigh
the threat of a Greek default, grapple with how to shield banks
from the fallout and consider a further boost to the rescue
fund. A much-needed “liquidity backstop” for the region must
come from governments because the  European Central Bank ’s
mandate requires it to keep purchases of sovereign debt
“extremely limited,” said Noyer, who is a member of the ECB.  Some equity strategists say this year’s 19 percent slump in
European equities isn’t commensurate with the outlook for
companies’ profits. The decline has left the measure trading at
9.3 times estimated earnings, close to the cheapest level since
March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Market has Overreacted’  “The market has overreacted to concerns of slowing growth
and sentiment has moved to depressed levels,”  Ian Scott , the
London-based global strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in
a report. “Equity valuations appear attractive to us. We expect
the earnings recovery to continue, though at a slower pace.”  The ECB may start to reverse this year’s interest-rate
increases on Oct. 6 by cutting its benchmark rate from 1.5
percent, according to UBS AG’s Larry Hatheway. Eleven of 52
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that the central bank
will reduce borrowing costs this week, while the remaining 41
forecast no change.  Stocks pared losses as a gauge of U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly rose, easing concern the world’s largest economy is
stalling. The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
climbed to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said. A level of 50 is the dividing line
between growth and contraction.  European Economy  Europe’s manufacturing industry contracted for a second
month in September, London-based Markit Economics said today. In
the U.K., a manufacturing index unexpectedly increased last
month from a 26-month low.  BHP Billiton  dropped 1.6 percent to 1,710 pence and Rio
Tinto declined 2.4 percent to 2,819.5 pence. Copper fell as much
as 5.5 percent to $6,635 a metric ton in London, its lowest
price since July 2010.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, sank 7.3
percent to 1.76 euros and France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  lost 5.2
percent to 18.97 euros.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest
bank by assets, retreated 3.2 percent to 156.25 pence.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  plunged 10 percent to 1.30 euros as Moody’s
Investors Service placed the credit ratings of the lender’s
three main operating entities on review for possible downgrade.
 Les Echos  reported on Sept. 30 that the finance ministers of
Belgium and France planned to meet today to discuss financing
options for Dexia.  ‘Big Worry’  “The big worry for Dexia shareholders is a massive
dilution of shares,” said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity
Ltd. in Sheffield,  England . “There’s speculation that Dexia may
be on the receiving end of a bailout. Dexia is the most exposed
and the news of a possible downgrade by Moody’s does not help.”  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, sank 5.7
percent to 47.12 euros, its lowest price since September 2010.
The preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
automaker, retreated 4.8 percent to 95.30 euros.  Alcatel-Lucent SA, France’s largest supplier of
telecommunications equipment plunged 12 percent to 1.94 euros,
the biggest drop since July. Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its price
estimate on the shares to 2.50 euros from 3.20 euros, saying
“our checks and some early public statements by operators
suggest that spending in the second half is at risk of further
disappointment.”  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
climbed 5.7 percent to 51.45 Swiss francs after SonntagsZeitung
reported that board member Thomas Schmidheiny said he’ll
increase his stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  