-- 
European Loan Prices Supported by 5 Billion Euros of Repayments

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-10-03T14:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/european-loan-prices-supported-by-5-billion-euros-of-repayments.html
Investors in European leveraged loans
received 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) from repayments in the
last week of September, eclipsing the total returned the
previous month and lifting prices in the secondary market.  Nycomed ASA, a Swiss drugmaker acquired by Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., repaid 4.2 billion euros of senior loans
last week, according to a person with knowledge of the deal who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
Com Hem AB redeemed about 1.4 billion euros of loans after the
Swedish cable company’s takeover by BC Partners Ltd. in July, a
banker involved in the deal said.  “Inevitably, repayments will provide some support for the
secondary market,” said David Milward, the London-based head of
loans at fund manager Henderson Global Investors Ltd. “We saw
the prices of some loans increase two or three points following
the formal announcement that Nycomed will repay.”  The average bid price for actively-traded European
leveraged loans rose 25 basis points to 92.66 percent of face
value in the week ending Sept. 29, after falling 572 basis
points over the previous three months, according to Standard &
Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.  European leveraged loans have outperformed their junk bond
counterparts in the year to Sept. 22, losing 1.42 percent
compared with a decline of 2.2 percent for bonds, according to
Credit Suisse’s European Leveraged Loan and High Yield Bond
Indexes. The debt recorded positive returns for the first five
months of the year before the region’s deepening sovereign
crisis curbed appetite for riskier assets, the data show.  Phadia, ProSieben  Investors in loans received 2.1 billion euros of repayments
in August after the takeover of Phadia AB, a Swedish maker of
allergy and autoimmunity diagnostic technology and
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  sold assets. ProSieben, a German
broadcaster controlled by KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP,
repaid 1.2 billion euros of debt after selling its Dutch and
Belgian cable assets in April. Phadia redeemed 920 million euros
of loans after its purchase by  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) 
from Cinven Ltd. in May, according to Henderson.  In the first quarter 9.7 billion euros were returned to the
market, followed by 11.8 billion euros in the second, according
to S&P LCD. Promivi, an animal-feed additives company sold to
Cargill Inc. by Permira in August, is expected to repay as much
as 900 million euros of loans in the fourth quarter, Henderson
said.  Tackling Refinancing Wall  Leveraged loans are typically used to fund buyouts.
Private-equity firms take the debt in the name of the acquired
company, triggering a downgrade in the target’s rating to junk,
or below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  The repayments may provide a fillup for private-equity
owned companies that must refinance 200 billion euros due
between 2012 and 2014. These businesses have been left in
“operational limbo” as volatile markets cut off refinancing
avenues,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report Sept. 28.  Securitas Direct AB and Coditel Holding SA struggled to
refinance temporary bridge loans as the high-yield  bond market 
soured after their buyouts. European high-yield funds saw a
weekly outflow of $1.49 billion, or 2.3 percent of assets, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said on Sept. 30, the ninth-consecutive
week of net withdrawals.  “The borrowers of secured loans won’t just be sat back
waiting for the refinancing wall to arrive,” Henderson’s
Milward said. “Borrowers will need to act ahead of that. CLO
investors will need to redeploy redemptions into the secondary
market, and will also be looking at some of the new transactions
as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Faris Khan at
   fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 