-- 
Global Manufacturing Clings to Growth Amid Slump in Europe

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-03T14:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/europe-manufacturing-contracted-for-second-month-in-september.html
Manufacturing in  China  and the U.K.
expanded last month while production in the euro region
contracted less than initially estimated, suggesting the global
economy may be weathering fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  A U.K. manufacturing index unexpectedly increased in
September from the previous month, while an indicator of euro-
region output dropped less than initially reported, London-based
Markit Economics said in separate reports today. In China,
output growth accelerated last month.  European leaders are struggling to counter the region’s
fiscal crisis, which threatens to hurt global economic growth.
While brighter production data may ease investor concerns about
a renewed recession, risks to growth are adding to the case for
policy makers to provide more stimulus. U.S. manufacturing
probably grew at the weakest in more than two years last month.  “The data have been mixed,” said Azad Zangana, an
economist at Schroder Investment Management in London. “While
there’s been a deterioration across  Europe , in the U.K. there’s
been a nice turnaround. If we are bumping along the bottom, this
could be one of the bumps.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
51.6 in September from 50.6 the prior month, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction in manufacturing.  In the 17-nation euro region, a manufacturing gauge fell to
48.5 from 49 in August. That’s above an initial estimate of 48.4
published on Sept. 22. The gauge for the U.K. rose to 51.1 from
49.4, reflecting attempts by producers to clear order backlogs.
Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  Luxembourg Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers are gathering in Luxembourg
today to consider a boost to the region’s bailout fund as they
weigh the threat of a Greek default. About three-quarters of
global investors surveyed by Bloomberg last month forecast the
region to slip into a recession over the coming year, with more
than half projecting worsening financial turmoil.  Contagion risks have already prompted some policy makers to
take action. The U.S. Federal Reserve will start “Operation
Twist” today, a move to replace its short-dated government debt
holdings with bonds of longer maturity in a bid to lower
borrowing costs and stimulate the economy.  The  European Central Bank  will probably hold its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1.5 percent when council members meet on Oct.
6, a Bloomberg survey shows. The  Bank of England  the same day
may also keep its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. While
a separate survey shows the central bank may keep its bond plan
at 200 billion pounds ($311 billion), some economists say policy
makers will boost the program.  “A lot of Western economies are going through fiscal
consolidation that has suppressed demand and they’ve been
relying on export growth to see them through,” said  Jonathan Loynes , an economist at  Capital Economics  in London. “That’s
now looking less likely and it puts policy loosening back on the
agenda. We may not see it this week, but it will come very
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  