-- 
Euro-Area Ministers Pick Asmussen to Replace Stark at ECB

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-03T23:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/euro-area-ministers-pick-asmussen-to-replace-stark-at-ecb-1-.html
German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  was appointed by euro-area finance ministers to replace
Juergen Stark on the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.  “We decided to replace Juergen Stark with Joerg Asmussen
as a member of the Executive Board,”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said today after
a meeting of the group in Luxembourg. “We did that in a
unanimous way.”  Asmussen will take up the ECB post after Stark’s
resignation last month and former Bundesbank president  Axel Weber ’s in February laid bare German opposition to the ECB’s
program of buying the bonds of debt-strapped euro-area nations
such as Greece and Italy. Current Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann also opposed restarting of the bond purchases in August
as the debt crisis threatened to engulf  Italy .  The trained economist has been a key negotiator at the
heart of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s economic policy since
she came to power in 2006. He and Weidmann both studied under
Weber, who was a university professor before joining the central
bank.  “Asmussen may be more constructive than Stark,” said
 Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 London . At the same time, “I don’t expect him to reject the
Bundesbank orthodoxy and the aversion to bond buying that
characterize that institution,” he said.  Stark has said he will wait until his replacement takes
office before he speaks publicly about his reasons for resigning
from the ECB. In a Bloomberg News interview on Aug. 18, Stark
said: “It’s generally known that I’m not a glowing advocate of
these purchases.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB said yesterday it settled 3.8
billion euros ($5.1 billion) of bond purchases in the week
through Sept. 30, down from 3.95 billion euros in the previous
week. The ECB, which began the program in May 2010, has a total
of 160.5 billion euros of  government bonds  on its books. Critics
of the program say it risks fuelling inflation and acts as
indirect monetary financing of governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at  jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  