-- 
Hewlett-Packard Says It Acquires Control Under Autonomy Offer

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-03T21:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/hewlett-packard-says-it-acquires-control-under-autonomy-offer.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, said it acquired control of
business information-management software maker Autonomy Corp.
under its $10.3 billion purchase offer.  Holders of about 87 percent of Autonomy’s stock accepted
the offer of 2,550 pence ($39.35) a share, the Palo Alto,
California-based company said today in a statement. Autonomy
will be run as a separate unit under current Chief Executive
Officer Mike Lynch, Hewlett-Packard said.  The purchase of the U.K.’s second-largest software company
added to pressure on ousted Hewlett-Packard CEO  Leo Apotheker 
and fueled a public dispute with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive
Officer Larry Ellison, who said he rejected the opportunity to
buy Autonomy for a price that he thinks is “absurdly high.”  Apotheker had announced an overhaul on Aug. 18 that
included the Autonomy purchase and a possible spinoff of the
personal-computer business. He also killed off the company’s
WebOS tablets and smartphones.  A month later, the former SAP AG chief executive was
removed by Hewlett-Packard’s board. Hewlett-Packard named former
EBay Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman  to succeed him.  Directors took cues from investors who said they felt
blindsided by the Autonomy deal, one person close to the
Hewlett-Packard said last month. In private meetings earlier
this year, Apotheker had told several large shareholders that
the company wasn’t planning to make big acquisitions, the person
said. The CEO didn’t alert the board to the remarks, even as
they weighed the takeover, according to the person.  Autonomy, based in Cambridge, England, will give Hewlett-
Packard software that searches a broad range of information,
known as unstructured data, including e-mails, music, video and
posts on social networks such as Facebook Inc.  Hewlett-Packard fell 25 cents to $22.20 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
47 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 