-- 
Express Scripts Must Disclose Markup in Drug Plans, U.S. Says

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-03T22:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/express-scripts-must-disclose-markup-in-drug-plans-u-s-says.html
Pharmacy managers such as  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  that administer Medicare drug benefits would have
to reveal the markup they charge insurers for prescription
medicines under a proposed U.S. rule.  The “spread” reflecting the difference between what
companies such as St. Louis-based Express Scripts and  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  pay pharmacies and what they charge health
plans hasn’t been reported. Doing so would “promote
transparency of financial transactions” in Medicare, the U.S.
health plan for the elderly and disabled, program administrators
said today in a  regulatory filing .  The rule would also require the companies to report the
percentage of Medicare prescriptions they fill through their own
mail-order pharmacies, compared with retail pharmacies run by
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and others. The pharmacy-benefit managers also
would have to disclose the amount and types of rebates and
discounts from drugmakers and the percentage of generic drugs
dispensed.  The U.S. won’t publicly disclose the information, according
to the filing. Medicare spends about $62 billion a year on its
prescription  drug benefit .  Pharmacy-benefit managers such as  Express Scripts  and
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco act as middlemen for
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors, negotiating
prices and managing the use of drugs by patients. Their profits
are tied to cutting their clients’ drug costs.  Express Scripts has bid $29.1 billion for Medco in an
effort to form the country’s biggest pharmacy benefits manager.
The deal requires approval from the Federal Trade Commission.  The Washington association that represents the companies,
the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, has defended
keeping spreads secret as an incentive for its members to
negotiate lower prices. A spokesman for the association, Charles
Cote, didn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in  Washington  at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 