-- 
Exxon Mobil Says Jury’s Gas-Leak Damages Award Was Excessive

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/exxon-asks-judge-to-throw-out-punitive-awards-in-gas-leak-case.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said it shouldn’t
be forced to pay more than $1 billion in punitive damages over a
2006 gasoline leak in Maryland that allegedly fouled residents’
drinking water.  The punishment damages, handed down in June to 160
homeowners and businesses as part of a $1.5 billion jury award,
are excessive and weren’t justified based on the facts of the
case,  John E. Griffith Jr ., one of Exxon Mobil’s attorneys, told
Baltimore County Circuit Judge  Robert Dugan  yesterday.  “The evidence is totally insufficient to justify” the
awards, Griffin argued in state court in Towson, Maryland.
Dugan, who already has rejected Exxon’s request for a new trial,
said he’d issue a written decision on the punitive-damage awards
later.  The $1.5 billion  verdict  in the environmental case was the
second-largest in the U.S. this year and the 21st largest of all
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Officials of
Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil have asked  Maryland ’s appellate
courts to overturn the verdict.  Rural Community  Jurors handed down the verdict on behalf of residents of
the Baltimore County community of Jacksonville for losses tied
to a 37-day gasoline leak from a local station’s tank farm. The
incident sent more than 26,000 gallons of fuel into the area’s
groundwater, according to court filings. The rural community
doesn’t have a public water system and relies on wells for
drinking water.  Residents contend Exxon Mobil officials misled them about
the extent of the leak, the oil company’s efforts to contain and
clean up the gas and the long-term effects on the area’s water
supply.  Jurors, who awarded $495 million in compensatory damages
along with the more than $1 billion in punitive damages, found
the company liable for fraud as part of their verdicts.  Exxon Mobil’s lawyers told Dugan yesterday residents
couldn’t show they relied on the company’s statements about the
progress of leak cleanup efforts when deciding whether to drink
the local water or sell their properties.  Since property owners “didn’t do anything different” in
the wake of the company’s statements about the leak, they can’t
prove they were defrauded,  Thomas H. Dundon , another of the
company’s lawyers added.  ‘Sustained Pattern’  Homeowners’ lawyers argued in court filings that jurors’
decision to award hefty punitive damages reflected evidence
showing Exxon Mobil executives engaged in “a sustained pattern
of fraudulent conduct over more than 20 years” that led to the
gas leak.  Exxon Mobil “is seeking to relitigate the case,”  Paul
Raschke , a Baltimore-based lawyer for the plaintiffs, told Dugan
at yesterday’s hearing.  Still, Raschke and other attorneys for homeowners
acknowledge in court filings some of the punitive awards exceed
guidelines handed down by the U.S. Supreme Court.  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled in the past that punitive
damages should be proportional to compensatory damages. The high
court has said punishment awards that are more than 10 times
actual damages may be excessive.  Ratio ‘Guideposts’  In a 2003 case involving State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., the  Supreme Court  said the Constitution’s due
process clause generally caps punitive damages at 10 times
compensatory damages and often imposes even tighter limits. That
ratio was one of three “guideposts” the justices said lower
courts should consult, along with a comparison to potential
civil fines and the level of reprehensibility involved.  In one of the Maryland leak cases, jurors awarded punitive
damages without a correlating award of compensatory damages,
Rasche and other plaintiffs attorneys said in an Aug. 8 filing.
In two other cases, the punitive awards were as much as 17 times
the compensatory figures, they added.  “Plaintiffs acknowledge that the jury’s awards in these
three cases should be modified by the court to comply with the
Supreme Court’s holdings,” homeowners’ lawyers said.  In April, a Los Angeles jury awarded Pacesetter Inc., a
unit of St. Jude Medical Center Inc., $2.3 billion in damages
over allegations Nevivcon Co., a firm owned by a former St. Jude
employee, engaged in the theft of some of Pacesetter’s trade
secrets. That’s the largest U.S. jury award so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Michael Allison v. Exxon Mobil Corp, 03-C-07-
003809, Circuit Court for Baltimore County (Towson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Towson, Maryland, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 