-- 
FBI Solyndra Probe, Cephalon Subpoena, Barclays: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-03T12:13:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fbi-solyndra-probe-cephalon-subpoena-barclays-compliance.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that filed for  bankruptcy protection  two months after executives
extolled its prospects, is being investigated by the FBI for
accounting fraud, an agency official said.  The FBI is examining possible misrepresentations in
financial statements submitted to the Energy Department,
according to the official, who requested anonymity because the
investigation is continuing.  When construction started, the company said it had a $2
billion backlog in orders for its cylindrical solar modules for
commercial rooftops.  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions and “is cooperating
fully” with the U.S. Attorney in San Francisco, according to a
Sept. 20 statement from Solyndra. David Miller, a company
spokesman, didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment Sept. 29.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 6 and
fired about 1,100 workers with little notice, two years after it
received the loan guarantee. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
raided the company’s offices on Sept. 8. The  Justice Department 
hasn’t said why Solyndra is being probed.  Solyndra was the first to receive a guarantee under the
stimulus act. Its loan was the largest award given to a solar
manufacturer under the program.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Says Large Rating Firm May Have Leaked Pending Rate Move  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inspectors said a
large credit-rating firm’s procedures “appeared to allow” for
a pending rating decision to be disclosed to certain people
before the action was publicly announced.  The findings, based on inspections conducted in 2009 and
2010, were part of the SEC’s first annual report on credit-
rating firms mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. Carlo di Florio,
head of the  Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations ,
declined to identify any of the firms referenced in the  report .  Regulators are evaluating credit-rating firms’ policies to
determine whether firms have provided some investors more
information than others, the report said.  The report highlights issues similar to those at the center
of a review of whether Standard and Poor’s employees improperly
gave certain investors information about its decision to
downgrade U.S. debt before doing so on Aug. 5, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter. The U.S. downgrade
occurred more than a year after the period covered by the SEC
report.  SEC inspectors have examined whether meetings between S&P
staff and certain investors to discuss the possible rating cut
violated rules that prohibit confidential information from being
disclosed selectively to some market participants, according to
the person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The SEC staff also said in the report on the industry that
credit-rating firms sometimes failed to follow their own ratings
processes, make accurate disclosures or manage conflicts of
interest.  The 10 firms registered with the SEC as nationally
recognized statistical ratings organizations, or NRSROs, have
already begun responding to recommendations in the Sept. 30
report.  For more, click here.  NCG, Catalunya Banc, Unnim Banc Get Temporary Approval for Aid  Spanish lenders NCG Banco, Catalunya Banc and Unnim Banc,
which were created this year as part of the restructuring of
 Spain ’s savings bank system, won temporary European Union
approval for their recapitalizations.  Final approval by the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s executive agency, depends on the submission of a
restructuring plan “that ensures that the banks will be viable
in the long-term, that shareholders adequately share the burden
of restructuring and that distortions of competitions are
limited,” the Brussels-based regulator said.  Barnier Prefers German, Swedish Bank Laws, FinansWatch Says  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said he has mainly been inspired by Swedish and
German bank rescue laws for the joint draft legislation that the
commission will soon present, according to an interview
published by Copenhagen-based news agency FinansWatch.  New York  Fed May Demand Liquidity Reports From European Banks  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may ask foreign
lenders for more detailed daily reports on liquidity as the U.S.
steps up monitoring of risks from  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Regulators held informal talks with some of the largest
European lenders about producing a “fourth-generation daily
liquidity” or 4G report, according to the people, who asked for
anonymity because communications with central bankers are
confidential. The reports may cover potential liabilities such
as foreign-exchange swaps and credit-default swaps, said one
person. The U.S. has already increased the number of examiners
embedded in these banks, the person said.  Concern is growing that European lenders may falter as
Greece teeters on the brink of default. U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner has warned that failure to bolster European
backstops would threaten “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk” for the global economy.  U.S.-based money funds, which buy short-term commercial
paper, have been shunning securities issued by some banks based
on the continent, and European Central Bank Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said Sept. 28 that liquidity shortages pose
the main risks to the region’s banking system.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  FSA Announces Re-Start of the FSCS Funding Model Review  The Financial Services Authority said it is restarting a
review of deposit guarantees and will issue a consultation paper
next year.  The deposit guarantee previously was increased in 2010 by
the FSA, according to its website.  Personal-Banking Fees May Face Disclosure Rules, Barnier Says  The European Union is ready to draft rules to make
personal-banking fees easier to compare if self-regulation by
banks fails “to deliver satisfactory results,” EU Financial
Services Commissioner Michel Barnier said.  “The European Commission is well aware that the current
structure and disclosure of bank fees hinder the price
transparency of financial services, thus making it difficult for
consumers to understand and compare offers,” Barnier said in an
answer to a parliamentary question dated Sept. 29.  “The European Commission has already informed the industry
of its readiness to launch the necessary preparations for
regulating through legislation the transparency of bank fees,”  EU Consults on Wholesale Pricing for Network Access  The  European Commission  is seeking views on regulation of
wholesale pricing for access to phone networks based on copper
and fiber lines.  The Brussels-based authority said it may draft
recommendations to national telecommunications regulators who
“are currently taking different approaches when they choose to
regulate in these fields,” said commissioner  Neelie Kroes ,
responsible for the region’s Digital Agenda, according to the
manuscript of a speech planned for today in Brussels.  Compliance Action  Cephalon Gets U.S. Justice Department Subpoena for Top Sellers  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  received a subpoena from the U.S. Justice
Department asking for information about the marketing of Nuvigil
and Provigil, the company’s best-selling medicines to promote
wakefulness.  Cephalon, based in Frazer,  Pennsylvania , said it will fully
cooperate and is responding to the request, which was disclosed
in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Nuvigil is the subject of a $3.6 million radio campaign by
Cephalon, as reported by Bloomberg Businessweek in August. The
advertising promotes the drug’s ability to help shift workers
stay alert on the job without impeding their ability to sleep
during the day. The company also is spending $490,000 on an
Internet campaign featuring the “Wake-Up Squad” and
informational booths at community events to promote Nuvigil.  The subpoena focuses on a “limited number” of promotional
activities that the company fully vetted to make sure they
complied with all laws and regulations, said Natalie deVane, a
company spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement. Cephalon has
fulfilled all of the requirements under a five-year corporate
integrity agreement it entered into in 2008 and will continue to
do so, she said.  Cephalon lost a bid in 2010 to dismiss antitrust lawsuits,
including one by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  Deutsche Telekom Faces Criminal Investigation Over Data Costs  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s biggest phone company, is
facing a criminal investigation by German prosecutors over
allegations the company illegally overcharged competitors for
data.  A formal probe was opened in the case, Angela Wilhelm,
spokeswoman for Bonn prosecutors, said in a telephone interview
Sept. 30. No suspect has yet been named, she said. The case was
prompted by a June complaint by German law firm  Wilms & Schaub
Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH  seeking a probe into whether
Deutsche Telekom managers fraudulently withheld information
about the cost of directory data.  As  Germany ’s former phone monopoly, Deutsche Telekom is
required to share directory data with competitors. Since the
opening of the telecommunications market in the 1990s, the
company has been involved in about 60 civil lawsuits over the
price it charges for subscriber data, according to Wilms &
Schaub.  In the complaint, Wilms & Schaub alleges that Deutsche
Telekom for years overcharged its competitors in the directory
and phone-book market claiming “unsubstantiated” costs.  Philipp Blank, a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,
said a similar complaint was filed in 2006 and the case was
dropped shortly thereafter.  Barclays Ordered to Halt Part of  Japan  Brokerage for 10 Days  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was ordered to suspend part of its Japan
brokerage business for 10 days after breaching Japanese
securities rules, the country’s finance regulator said.  The  Financial Services Agency ’s suspension will take place
from Oct. 11 to Oct. 24, the regulator said in a statement. The
regulatory action affects the London-based company’s equity
trading in Japan between Barclays’s affiliated companies, the
agency said.  The violation took place after Barclays failed to report
short-sale transactions properly to the Osaka Securities
Exchange, the agency said in a statement to its website. The FSA
also ordered Barclays to submit a report to the regulator by
Oct. 21 detailing who is responsible for the violation and how
it will prevent another occurrence.  Barclays “will enhance further our compliance processes
and governance to prevent such an error from reoccurring,” the
brokerage said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  U.K. Insurers to Get Break on Sharing Price Data After Probe  Seven U.K. insurers including  Aviva Plc (AV/) , RBS Insurance
Group Ltd. and  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  will get to share more
recent policy-price data if Britain’s antitrust regulator agrees
to back off limits it set during an investigation.  The companies, probed over their use of computer programs
that allowed them to view each other’s data, may share car-
insurance prices that are six months old under the proposed
change, instead of a 36-month limit agreed to in January, the
U.K. Office of Fair Trading said Sept. 30 in a statement posted
on its website. A comment period on the proposed change to the
accord ends on Oct. 28.  None of the insurers or software companies was cited as
breaching competition law or accused of price fixing by the OFT.  Popolare Emilia to Meet Basel 3 Targets in Advance, Il Sole Says  Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  plans to meet its
Basel 3 targets seven years in advance through early conversion
of a bond and the absorption of minority stakes, Il Sole 24 Ore
 reported , without saying where it got the information.  The moves will lift Popolare dell’Emilia’s core Tier 1
ratio above 7 percent, the newspaper said.  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Says ATM Fees May Rise Because of Dodd-Frank  Arthur Levitt , a former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said an unintended consequence of the Dodd-
Frank financial reform legislation may be $5 ATM fees.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Transaction Tax Needs ‘National Level’ Design, Re-Define Says  European Union proposals for a financial-transaction tax
would be more likely to succeed if pursued on a country-by-
country basis, said Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy
group  Re-Define Europe .  Reaching an agreement among the 27 EU member states, or
even the 17 nations of the euro area, is likely to be
impossible, Kapoor said in an interview in Brussels. To have any
chance of passage, tax proposals need to be targeted at only
those countries interested in such an effort, he said.  “Having a design that deliberately is set up to be
possible at a national level is the only sensible thing to do,
if indeed you are serious about such a proposal, as at least the
president of the  European Commission  seems to be,” Kapoor said.  The EU last week proposed a financial-transaction tax to
start in 2014, saying it could raise 57 billion euros ($77
billion) a year to aid national and regional budgets.  Britain, home to Europe’s biggest financial center, and the
Netherlands criticized the plan as unworkable, particularly if
it isn’t enacted on a global basis. It is “no good at all” and
would affect the competitiveness of the EU, Dutch Deputy Finance
Minister Frans Weekers told lawmakers Sept. 29.  The proposal would apply a levy of 0.1 percent on trading
of stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts, according to the commission, the EU executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 