-- 
Lacker Says Fed’s Operation Twist Won’t Spur U.S. Employment

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fed-s-lacker-says-more-easing-may-not-spur-u-s-economic-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said last month’s move to reduce long-
term interest rates is unlikely to spur a job market hampered by
uncertainty over fiscal policy and  government regulation .  “I tend to think it would cause higher inflation and have
only a transitory or fleeting effect on growth,” Lacker said
yesterday in response to audience questions after a speech in
Madison, Wisconsin.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the U.S. is
facing “a national crisis” with the jobless rate at around 9
percent since April 2009. The European debt crisis, political
haggling in the U.S. and a plunge in stock prices have prompted
a drop in consumer and business confidence that may hurt
spending and hiring. Bernanke is scheduled to testify today to a
congressional panel about the economic outlook.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to push down mortgage and
other loan rates in bid to spur growth and employment. The Fed
plans to do so by extending maturities of the Treasuries in its
portfolio, buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling an
equal amount of shorter-term securities.  “There are impediments to growth that somewhat lower
longer-term  interest rates  would not be the antidote for,”
Lacker said of the policy, known as Operation Twist. “Our role
is fairly limited in terms of increasing growth.”  Employment Barriers  Lacker identified several barriers to higher employment,
including businesses’ uncertainty about environmental and labor
regulation, concern about tax and fiscal policy, extended
 unemployment benefits  and a mismatch between employers’ needs
and workers’ skills.  “My sense of Operation Twist is if it has economic
effects, it is more likely to raise inflation that it is to
measurably raise growth,” Lacker told reporters after his
speech. “I would not have supported it.”  Lacker doesn’t vote on policy this year under the Fed’s
rotating system. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ,
Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Charles Plosser  of the Philadelphia Fed voted against the decision last
month. They “did not support additional policy accommodation at
this time,” the Fed statement said.  The Richmond Fed leader spoke after the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell to a more than one-year low yesterday on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen. The index dropped 2.9 percent
to 1,099.23 in  New York .  Treasury securities  rose, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.77 percent from
1.92 percent late on Sept. 30.  Lacker told reporters he is confident in the staying power
of the two-year-old U.S. economic recovery.  Low Chance of Recession  “The chance of recession looks low now to me,” he said.
“Broadly speaking, the data flow has been disappointing, but
still consistent with economic growth at a moderate pace.”  Economists have cut their forecasts for growth, according
to a Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The
median forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion
in the third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous
month’s survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2
percent, down from 2.4 percent.  Reports yesterday showed manufacturing unexpectedly
accelerated in September and construction spending climbed in
August.  Earlier data, including stagnant payrolls in August,
plunging  consumer confidence  and falling home values, have
pointed to slower growth.  The Richmond Fed leader said he has become more concerned
about inflation, which now appears to be above the Fed’s target.
High unemployment may do little to push down prices, he said.  ‘Little Too High’  “Inflation is above where we would all like to see it,”
Lacker said. “I don’t see the amount of slack in the economy
providing me much comfort.”  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 1.6 percent over the past 12 months, Commerce
Department figures showed Sept. 30.  Two Fed officials last week said they continue to be on
guard against inflation. Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the
central bank’s use of its policy tools has been “completely
appropriate,” and that she would be “quite leery” of allowing
higher inflation or price expectations in an attempt to lower
real interest rates.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said faster inflation
won’t stem the housing glut and “monetary policy is ultra-loose
right now, and appropriately so.”  Tolerating Inflation  Lacker disagreed with the view, voiced by Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans , that the Fed should consider allowing
higher inflation for a time to accelerate growth and bring down
unemployment.  “Tolerating even on a temporary basis higher inflation in
an effort to reduce unemployment is something we have tried
before and it has failed,” he said. “It would set a precedent
which would hamper our credibility for decades to come.”  Lacker, 56, who attended the University of  Wisconsin , is a
former head of research at the Richmond Fed and heads a district
that is home to the biggest U.S. lender by assets, Bank of
America Corp., based in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  