-- 
Fed’s Fisher Sees ‘Minor Momentum’ in Economy in His Talks With Businesses

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 
2011-10-03T17:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fed-s-fisher-sees-minor-momentum-in-economy-in-his-talks-with-businesses.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said he is seeing “minor momentum” in
the U.S. economy, with business officials he talks with saying
they are “not moving backward.”  “Clearly, the economy is anemic,” he said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “Our job is to refuel the tanks, we’ve done
that.” Now, “it’s up to the fiscal authorities” to do their
work, he said.  Fisher reiterated his view that the central bank’s decision
last month to push down longer-term  interest rates  may prove
ineffective. He joined presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota from Minneapolis in
dissenting for a second straight month, posing the most
opposition within the Federal Open Market Committee in almost 19
years.  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in
September as production and exports picked up, easing concern
the world’s largest economy is stalling, according to the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index released today.  “There is some minor momentum in the economy,” Fisher
said. Business leaders he said he knows are saying “that they
are barely moving forward, but they are not moving backward.”  In a program announced last month, the Fed plans to replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries maturing in six to 30 years. The plan is aimed
at reducing borrowing costs and helping the world’s largest
economy recover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  