-- 
Fisher Says Fed Has Ammunition If U.S. Turns ‘Horrific’

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 
2011-10-03T22:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fisher-says-fed-has-lots-of-ammunition-if-u-s-turns-horrific-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank has “plenty of
ammunition” left if the economic situation turns “horrific,”
while reiterating his view the Fed has provided enough stimulus.  “We can expand the money supply to the Nth degree,” he
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . Still, the Fed has to be
“cautious” with the stimulus it’s already provided, and now
“it’s up to the fiscal authorities” to do their job.  Fisher reiterated his view that the central bank’s decision
last month to push down longer-term  interest rates  may prove
ineffective. He joined Fed presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota from Minneapolis in
dissenting for a second straight month, posing the most
opposition on the  Federal Open Market Committee  in almost 19
years.  “There is some minor momentum in the economy,” Fisher
said. Business leaders he knows are saying “that they are
barely moving forward, but they are not moving backward.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in
September as production picked up, easing concern the world’s
largest economy is stalling, according to the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index released today.  In a program announced last month, the Fed plans to replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries maturing in six to 30 years. The plan is aimed
at reducing borrowing costs and helping the world’s largest
economy recover.  Bond Yield Falls  Treasury 30-year bonds rose after the biggest quarterly
advance since 2008 as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a
sluggish U.S. economy spurred demand for the world’s safest
assets. Yields on 30-year bonds fell 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “We’re seeing a flight to quality,” said Fisher, who
called the U.S. “the best-looking horse in the glue factory.”  Europe’s debt situation could be a “tripwire” for the
U.S., yet “markets have heavily discounted a lot that can go
wrong,” Fisher said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  