-- 
Fitch Says Further India Fiscal Weakness Would ‘Weigh’ on Credit Rating

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-03T14:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fitch-says-further-india-fiscal-weakness-would-weigh-on-credit-rating.html
Fitch Ratings  said that any further
deterioration in Indian government finances may “weigh” on the
nation’s debt ratings, even though last week’s decision to
increase the annual borrowing plan was expected.  The finance ministry’s plan to boost debt sales by 32
percent in the next six months means it will miss a target to
cut the  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent this fiscal year, said
 Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific sovereign
ratings at Fitch. The shortfall may widen instead to 5.5 percent
in the 12 months through March, from 4.7 percent in the previous
year.  India is borrowing more even as sovereign-debt problems in
 Europe  and the U.S. threaten a recession in developed markets.
Yields on the nation’s 10-year bonds touched a three-year high
of 8.52 percent today after climbing 60 basis points since the
end of 2010 in the biggest increase among Asian bond markets.
Government debt as a proportion of gross domestic product may
still decline, according to Fitch, as the country grows at the
fastest pace after  China  among major Asian economies.  “We already expected the 4.6 percent deficit target to be
missed but if we saw further weakening in the fiscal outlook,
then that would weigh on the ratings,” said Colquhoun. “We
still think the debt-to-GDP ratio will be coming down because of
the strength of the nominal GDP growth. The announcement of
extra borrowing is what we would’ve expected to happen.”  ‘Not Surprising’  India’s BBB- rating by Fitch, the lowest investment grade,
is currently “well supported” with a stable outlook, he said.
Fitch cut India’s economic growth rate for the year ending March
31 to 7.5 percent from 7.7 percent, citing “deterioration” in
global growth prospects, according to an e-mailed statement
today. The growth forecast for next fiscal year was reduced to 8
percent from 8.2 percent.  The country’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in
the three months ended June from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since 2009, a government report showed Aug. 30.  The government said Sept. 29 that it will raise 2.2
trillion rupees ($44.5 billion) selling bonds in the second half
of the current fiscal year, compared with an earlier target of
1.67 trillion rupees. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in
 New Delhi  the next day that it’s “too early” to judge the
impact of the extra borrowing on the government’s fiscal deficit
goal.  India’s decision to issue more debt is “not surprising”
and is “within the scope of expectations,” said  Takahira Ogawa , Singapore-based director of sovereign and international
public finance ratings at  Standard & Poor’s . The nation’s budget
deficit in the fiscal year ending March 31 will be wider than
the government’s estimate of a four-year low of 4.6 percent, he
said in an e-mail today.  Inflation, Rates  “To maintain the market’s confidence, it is becoming more
important for the government to show its commitment to fiscal
consolidation in the medium term,” Ogawa said.  “The content
and timing of enactment of next year’s budget will be very
important factors for India’s sovereign rating.”  Accelerating inflation and a record surge in  interest rates 
may deter some companies from making long-term investments in
India, according to Fitch.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised borrowing costs 12 times
since the start of 2010, the fastest monetary-tightening in the
country on record, to cool inflation. Still, the benchmark
wholesale-price index rose 9.78 percent in August, the fastest
pace in more than a year. RBI may still need to tighten monetary
policy to curb prices, Fitch said in the statement.  ‘Volatile Conditions’  “More volatile interest rates and more volatile economic
conditions, including on the inflation front, tend to discourage
businesses from committing to long-term capital-spending
projects,” Fitch’s Colquhoun said. “That sort of uncertainty
over the coming medium-term macro prospects is what has weighed
on investment and thereby contributed to weakening GDP growth.”  This year’s slide in the rupee may make  India ’s exports
more competitive and help narrow the nation’s current-account
deficit, he said. The rupee lost 9.1 percent so far in 2011 to
49.1575 per dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, the worst
performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  “A cheaper rupee would benefit India’s exporters relative
to other countries at least in the short term,” Colquhoun said.
“This should help to cut the current-account deficit.”  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of international trade and investment flows, widened to $14.1
billion in the three months through June from $5.4 billion in
the previous quarter, the RBI said on Sept. 30. The median
forecast of eight estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
$10.75 billion deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anil Varma at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net  