-- 
Flaherty Says Canada Pushes Carney As Next Financial Stability Board Head

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/flaherty-says-canada-pushes-carney-as-next-financial-stability-board-head.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he is lobbying for Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  to become the next chair of the Basel-based Financial
Stability Board.  “I certainly support and have taken steps to encourage
this to happen,” Flaherty told reporters today after a speech
in Whitby, Ontario. “He is certainly well qualified.”  The FSB was founded by Group of 20 nations to strengthen
the global financial system, and Chairman  Mario Draghi  is
leaving next month to lead the  European Central Bank . Draghi in
Zurich declined to comment today on his replacement, and FSB
secretary general Svein Andresen said “several candidates” are
up for the job and “consultation is under way.”  Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand is also a
candidate to lead the FSB, SonntagsZeitung reported Sept. 12,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Carney worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for more than a
decade before joining  Canada ’s central bank, and has led a Bank
for International Settlements committee that monitors global
markets since last year. He has clashed with former banking
colleagues over tougher capital standards.  Flaherty also reiterated today that European leaders can
fix their debt crisis if they take strong actions to create a
lasting solution.  “The longer this issue remains unresolved the more
uncertainty there is and the more danger there is, which is the
message we’ve been communicating to our European friends for
months and months now,” Flaherty said.  “The exposure of our banks is relatively small to the
European situation, particularly  Greece , but the knock-on effect
to the world economy can be difficult and that’s what we are
worried about constantly,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 