-- 
Forint Drops, Hungary Bond Risk Reaches 2-Year High on Debt Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-03T15:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/forint-drops-hungary-bond-risk-reaches-2-year-high-on-debt-plan.html
The forint weakened for a fourth day
and the cost of protecting against default on Hungarian bonds
rose to the highest in more than two years amid government plans
to restructure $819 million in local county debt.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 1 percent to 296.3 per euro,
the weakest since 2009, by 4:42 p.m. in Budapest. The country’s
five-year credit-default swaps jumped more than 17 basis points
to 549.3, the highest since March 2009, according to data
provider CMA. Credit swaps rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen.  Hungary, the first European Union country to get a bailout
led by the  International Monetary Fund  in 2008, wants to
restructure the 180 billion forint ($819 million) of debt
amassed by the nation’s 19 counties, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said today. Emerging-market stocks extended losses after
completing the worst quarterly drop since 2008 amid mounting
concern there will be a world economic slowdown and European
leaders prepared to weigh the risk of a Greek default.  “Today’s announcement from the prime minister on the
takeover and possible restructuring of counties can be seen as
negative news,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an economist at Erste
Group Bank AG in Budapest, in a research report today. The
deteriorating global sentiment also put pressure on the forint,
he said.  Hungary’s government bonds maturing in 2017 weakened for a
fourth day, lifting the yield 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 7.91 percent, the highest since January.  The country needs a precautionary standby loan agreement
with the IMF to defend against contagion from a potential
worsening of the euro crisis, Bank of America Corp. economist
 Raffaella Tenconi  said in a research report today.  “There isn’t enough ammunition left to protect the economy
against an unfavorable global backdrop if the eurozone states do
not take immediate action to stabilize the crisis,” Tenconi
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  