-- 
FSB Backs Capital-Surcharge Plan for World’s Biggest Banks

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-03T17:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/fsb-endorses-capital-surcharge-plan-for-world-s-biggest-banks.html
The Financial Stability Board backed
plans for the world’s largest banks to set aside additional
capital and develop measures to wind down their operations in a
crisis, the group’s chairman  Mario Draghi  said today.  Lenders whose collapse could roil global markets will face
surcharges as high as 2.5 percentage points, Draghi said after a
FSB meeting in Zurich,  Switzerland . The group also agreed more
must be done to implement banker pay rules and said the
international community would miss a 2012 deadline for tougher
regulation of over-the-counter derivative markets.  “I suspect the industry will argue strongly that an
aggressive pursuit of all these measures at this very difficult
time for the global economy poses more of a threat to GDP growth
in the short term than perhaps the FSB might accept,”  Richard Reid , the International Centre for Financial Regulation’s
director of research, said in an e-mail.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional  capital requirements , which were released for  public
comment  in July.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , are among bankers who have said the proposals would
constrain lending and hurt the economy.  A study by the  Bank for International Settlements  showed
the expected macroeconomic impact of the capital surcharge plans
is “very limited on GDP growth,” Draghi said. Any reduction in
growth would be “outweighed by the benefits that the system
would derive from having stronger banks.”  ‘Difficult Area’  “Whether the macro economic benefits of the surcharges
outweigh the transitional costs “is a very difficult area to
determine with precision,” Reid said.  The FSB decision to back the capital surcharges mirrors a
decision last week by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , which had prepared the plans.  “Further improvements in methodology and data” will be
made before the measures come into effect, Draghi said. The
rules will be phased in between 2016 and the end of 2018.  Svein Andresen, secretary general of the FSB, said the U.S.
will “very shortly” introduce measures to implement proposed
global capital rules, known as Basel III.  The FSB coordinates the work of national regulators from
the Group of 20 nations and sets tasks for global standard-
setting organizations such as the Basel Committee.  Living Wills  Banks deemed too big to fail will be required to draw up
so-called recovery and resolution plans, also known as living
wills, indicating how they could be closed in a crisis, the FSB
said. Some lenders have cautioned regulators against using the
process to impose non-essential structural changes on firms.  “The FSB should avoid putting in place a general principle
or approach which unnecessarily pushes firms to restructure
without significant justification,”  Deutsche Bank AG  said in a
written submission to the board.  The FSB reviewed plans to “strengthen the oversight and
regulation” of shadow banking, the board said. It also agreed
that further progress is needed to reduce financial firms’
reliance on external credit ratings.  Failed Deadline  While regulators will in overall terms fail to meet the
deadline for implementing the derivatives rules, authorities
should try to meet the target date in “as many areas as
possible,” the FSB  said in a statement  on its website.  The measures, which would require derivatives trades be
passed through clearinghouses and logged in trade repositories,
should continue to apply even when instruments that were deemed
to be over-the-counter lose that status because they start to be
traded on exchanges, Draghi said.  The U.K. has clashed with other governments in the 27-
nation European Union over whether the implementation of the
rules should be applied to trades that don’t take place over-
the-counter, with the country arguing for broader application of
the measures.  The U.S. has also sought for the EU to extend the scope of
the rules beyond just OTC derivatives.  The board has also agreed on measures to enhance the
“robustness” of clearing houses, the FSB said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 