-- 
German Stocks Decline on Debt, Extending Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2002

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-03T15:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/german-stocks-decline-on-debt-extending-biggest-quarterly-drop-since-2002.html
German stocks fell, extending the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s biggest quarterly drop in nine years, as
concern deepened that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt growth and
choke off funding for banks.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid 7.3 percent and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
dropped 2.2 percent amid speculation that banks in Belgium and
Austria will need more government support. Carmakers  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  declined as investors speculated
that  China ’s economy is slowing more than expected.  The DAX dropped 2.3 percent to 5,376.7 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, having earlier fallen as much as 3.9
percent. The gauge slumped 25 percent last quarter, its largest
plunge since 2002, amid concern global growth is stumbling as
policy makers struggle to contain  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The DAX has decreased 22 percent this year. The broader
HDAX Index lost 2.3 percent today.  “Clearly this ongoing negative news about the European
crisis is doing nothing for sentiment,” said David Jones, chief
market strategist at IG Index in London. “Any rally will be
unsustainable because everyone is nervous. Traders and investors
are asking themselves ‘when will this ever end?’”  Stocks kept losses even after a report from the Institute
for Supply Management showed manufacturing in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, unexpectedly accelerated in September.  The Greek government said it passed a new budget backed by
its international creditors, including larger deficits than
previously forecast, as the country attempts to secure an 8
billion-euro ($10.6 billion) aid payout needed to avoid default.  Deutsche Bank, Dexia  Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-largest bank, tumbled 7.3
percent to 1.76 euros. Deutsche Bank, the country’s biggest
lender, fell 2.2 percent to 25.75 euros.  Aareal Bank AG (ARL) , a
commercial-property lender, declined 6.3 percent to 11 euros.
The Euro Stoxx Banks Index of euro-area lenders retreated 3.6
percent.  Dexia SA of Belgium slumped 10 percent after Les Echos
newspaper reported the Belgian and French finance ministers
planned to meet today to discuss financing options for the
lender and Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade the
bank’s operating units. Hypo Alpe-Adria-International Bank AG,
which was nationalized by Austria, may cost Austrian taxpayers
another 4 billion euros by 2013, Austrian daily newspaper
Kronen-Zeitung reported.  BMW, maker of the X3 sport-utility vehicle, lost 5.7
percent to 47.12 euros. Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz
cars, sank 2.3 percent to 32.85 euros.  Hard Landing  In  Asia ,  Hong Kong  shares tumbled, with the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
falling 4.4 percent.  “We have sensed that the financial markets in China have
become increasingly unstable and that the risk of a hard landing
is rising,” a team of equity strategists at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in Hong Kong led by David Cui wrote
in a report dated Oct. 1. “We believe that, to counter the
effects of the latest global financial crisis, the government’s
monetary policy was arguably too loose and fiscal policy too
aggressive.”  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, dropped 3.5 percent to 5.39 euros.  Aixtron
AG (AIXA) , a supplier to the semiconductor industry, declined 4.8
percent to 10.44 euros. Tokyo Electron Ltd.’s second-quarter
orders fell more than the Japanese semiconductor-equipment maker
had predicted because of excess chip inventories, Chairman
Tetsuro Higashi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  