-- 
German Bonds Advance as European Finance Ministers Gather at Euro Meeting

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/german-bonds-advance-before-european-finance-ministers-meeting.html
German government bonds rose for a
third day as investors sought the safest assets as euro-region
finance ministers gather to consider boosting the region’s
rescue fund amid the risk of a Greek default.  Greece’s two-year bonds fell as the government promised new
spending cuts, backed by its international creditors, in an
attempt to safeguard aid payments. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today that euro area countries should
wait until changes to the current rescue fund are ratified
before discussing an increase to its capacity. Spanish and
Italian 10-year securities reversed declines as the European
Central Bank was said to buy the nations’ bonds.  “There’s a pretty solid safe-haven bid,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “As
every day goes by without a level of official progress, the
market becomes more uncertain and more nervous. There’s room for
bund yields to travel back down and test the lows again as long
as this nervousness persists.”  German 10-year yields declined eight basis points to 1.81
percent at 4:45 p.m. in  London . They reached a record 1.636
percent on Sept. 23. The 2.25 percent security due September
2021 rose 0.69 or 6.9 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,337) face amount,
to 103.94. Two-year yields dropped six basis points to 0.49
percent.  Manufacturing Gauge  Finance ministers from the 17-nation euro-region will weigh
the threat of a Greek default, grapple with how to shield banks
from the fallout, consider a further boost to their rescue fund
and tackle the question of “governance,” or who will be in
charge of a better-managed euro area, at today’s meeting, which
was due to start at 5 p.m. Luxembourg time.  Speaking to reporters before the meeting, Schaeuble said
that speculation on whether or not the fund will be leveraged
makes no sense at this time.  The capacity of the EFSF is “sufficient,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters today.  Bonds in  Germany  and other so-called core euro-region
countries rallied in the past three months as data added to
speculation the European economy is slipping back into recession
and as the region’s debt crisis intensified. Ten-year bund
yields fell more than 1 percentage point in the third quarter.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 48.5 from 49 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above
an initial estimate for September of 48.4 published on Sept. 22.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Widening Spreads  “There’s nothing really in  Europe  to be that positive
about,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London. “Higher-grade fixed income,
like bunds, will continue to be well bid. The markets would like
to see the crisis response taken to the next stage but I am not
sure if there’s enough cohesion in Europe to widen the safety
net.”  The yield premium investors get from holding French 10-year
 government bonds  over German securities of a similar maturity
increased four basis points to 76 basis points today. The
difference in yield between Belgian 10-year bonds and German
bunds widened six basis points to 182 basis points.  Dexia SA, the municipal lender rescued by France and
 Belgium  in 2008, and Paris-based Societe Generale SA led a slide
among European financial shares amid growing concern that the
banks are having trouble funding themselves.  Greek Deficit  Greek two-year notes fell after the government yesterday
pledged to fire workers as part of an austerity package designed
to help secure disbursement of an 8 billion-euro loan payout
this month and a second rescue of 109 billion euros agreed to by
EU leaders on July 21.  The steps would leave  Greece ’s 2012 budget deficit
equivalent to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product, missing the
6.5 percent goal previously set with the EU,  International
Monetary Fund  and European Central Bank, known as the troika.
The group’s inspectors agreed to the proposed 2012 budget.  “The news out of Greece over the weekend wasn’t great,
with it admitting that it won’t meet the deficit targets,” West
LB’s Davies said. “The market needs to see the next aid tranche
paid.”  The Greek two-year note yields were 10 basis points higher
at 62.27 percent, while the 10-year yield lost seven basis
points to 22.62 percent.  Bailout packages for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and bond
purchases by the  European Central Bank  have failed to stabilize
markets and stop the debt crisis threatening to engulf Italy and
 Spain . The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian  government
securities  on Aug. 8 to curb a surge in yields, according to
traders who witnessed the deals.  Italian Bonds  The Frankfurt-based central bank bought debt from both
nations today, according to four people with knowledge of the
transactions, who asked not to be identified because the deals
are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment.  The ECB said today it settled 3.80 billion euros of bond
purchases in the week through Sept. 30, down from 3.95 billion
euros in the previous week. That’s the least since it resumed
its government bond-buying program on Aug. 4.  Italian 10-year bonds rose for a third day, pushing the
yield down one basis point to 5.53 percent. Earlier, the rate
climbed 10 basis points to 5.63 percent. Spain’s 10-year bond
yields fell two basis points to 5.11 percent after rising as
much as five basis points earlier to 5.19 percent.  German government bonds returned 7.9 percent in the third
quarter, leaving them with a 7.7 percent return in 2011,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained
6.5 percent last quarter while Greek bonds tumbled 25 percent,
pushing their loss this year to 36 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  