-- 
Cohan: Getting Rich From Others Was Never Easier

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-10-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/getting-rich-from-others-was-never-easier-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
One of the dirty little secrets of
the current social-networking mania is that users of services
such as Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr give away their content
while the shareholders of the companies are busy getting
obscenely rich.  Facebook Inc. seems to be clocking in these days at a
valuation of as much as $100 billion while Twitter Inc.’s
implied value is about $8 billion based on a new round of
financing, the proceeds of which went to cash out the original
investors. Tumblr Inc. also recently raised fresh capital,
giving it a value of $800 million.  Not paying for content is a relatively new idea in the
media business. It is understandable -- if not particularly
admirable -- as long as these companies can continue to get away
with it. If you could get wealthy through the work of others
without having to pay them, who wouldn’t be tempted to try it?
But can you imagine Walt Disney Co. giving away any of its
content free?  At last check, according to  Forbes  magazine’s list of the
world’s 400 richest people,  Mark Zuckerberg , the co-founder and
chief executive officer of Facebook, was worth $17.5 billion, up
$10.6 billion in a year, and making him the youngest person with
such a vast fortune. When Facebook goes public in 2012, he will
be even wealthier.  But is this right, or fair, to the users of the services
who get nothing but psychic income, while Zuckerberg and others
get rich from their content, which amounts to the quotidian
ramblings and musings of some 800 million uncompensated
“ friends ”? And why in the world do the users of these services
continue to participate in such an exploitative scheme?  Model to Emulate  Not surprisingly, others in the media business have tried
to emulate this model, with some success. For instance, from its
inception in 2005, the Huffington Post has, by and large, not
paid the people who write for the online newspaper  Why writers agree to this arrangement isn’t exactly clear.
Do they like the exposure and hope it will lead to a paying gig
somewhere down the line, somewhere else? Do they have a point of
view they want to unleash into the marketplace of ideas? Are
they just altruistic? And how do they feel about former
Washington Post media critic Howard Kurtz getting paid a bundle
while they get nothing?  Regardless of the reasons,  Arianna Huffington  and Ken Lerer, the principal owners of the business, got even richer
than they already were when they sold Huffington Post for $315
million, in cash, to AOL Inc. in February. Those who provided
content to the site for free over the years got nothing (and
still get paid nothing to write for the site).  Business Insider  Then there is the case of  Business Insider , a business
blogging site co-founded by  Henry Blodget , who once upon a time
was a leading Internet analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. serving up
“buy” recommendations on stocks even though he didn’t really
believe them. Last month, Blodget said Business Insider had
raised $7 million (and a total of $14 million since the parent
company’s inception in 2007) from existing backers such as Allen
& Co., RRE Ventures and Web browser pioneer  Marc Andreessen ,
along with new investors Lerer and Gordon Crovitz, the former
publisher of the Wall Street Journal. Blodget didn’t say what
Business Insider is now valued at, but it is safe to assume he
on his way to making his second fortune.  Blodget, understandably, also is a big fan of getting as
much of the content on his site as he can by “mass
aggregating” material from others without paying them. And to
be fair to Blodget, he also has a staff of about 60 people, some
of whom are paid to write original, often witty, analyses of our
increasingly complex business landscape.  Aggregators at War  On Sept. 23,  Marco Arment  -- one of the founders of Tumblr
and the founder of Instapaper, a mobile-device application that
lets people save articles they find for later reading -- decided
he was fed up with Business Insider “scraping” his writings
for free and posting them on its blog.  After he read a Reuters article about the practice, Arment
did some research and discovered that Business Insider had
linked, without compensating him, to “nearly every significant
article I’ve written for the last few years.” What’s more,
Arment wrote, “is how their layout so strongly implies that I’m
a Business Insider writer and I endorse my name and writing
being splattered all over their site. It’s the same game
famously played by the  Huffington Post  and many other
‘aggregators.’”  Willing People  Business Insider pushed back against Arment, of course, by
saying that both Tumblr and Instapaper also harvest content they
don’t pay for.  Regardless of the specific merits of the Arment-Blodget
spat, what’s becoming clear is that any number of very clever
people have figured out how to get very rich using the free
labor of others. This exploitative behavior needs to stop. As
long as people are willing to provide content free, Twitter and
Facebook have a good racket going, even if it is deeply
unsettling.  One possible solution is for people to challenge sites if
they go beyond the “ fair use ,” which limits borrowed text to a
few brief quotations unless the author or original publisher
grants permission. Even a public shaming -- perhaps in the form
of being tarred with the label of having “bad Internet
etiquette” -- might work wonders.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 