-- 
Gome Electrical Delays China Property Venture With Jailed Founder Huang

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-03T08:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/gome-puts-property-venture-plan-with-jailed-founder-on-hold-1-.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd., which has lost 41 percent of its market value since its
announcement on a property venture plan with its jailed founder,
said it was putting the project on hold for further research.  “The company will re-evaluate various factors relating to
the proposal and continue to study how to obtain attractive
retail, storage and logistics properties in the second- and
third-tier cities,” Beijing-based Gome said in a filing to the
 Hong Kong  stock exchange today.  China ’s second-largest electronics retailer said Sept. 27
it planned a real-estate venture with billionaire founder and
controlling shareholder  Huang Guangyu , also known as Wong Kwong Yu. Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded Gome’s stock to
“neutral” from “outperform” Sept. 29 over corporate
governance concerns, saying that the venture deal raised
questions about transparency and funding.  “Putting the property joint venture on hold is to the
benefit of investors and shareholders, given the uncertainty in
the  property market ,” Candy Huang, an analyst at Barclays Plc
in Hong Kong, wrote in a note to clients. “The move reduces the
overhang on potential corporate governance issues with regard to
associated transactions with the parent company.”  Gome fell 15 percent to close at HK$1.56 on the city’s
stock exchange, after earlier surging as much as 7.1 percent.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 4.4 percent.  The venture may lower costs and increase earnings by
raising Gome’s number of stores in “self-owned” properties in
China, Gome said in the Sept. 27 statement.  Gome decided to put the venture proposal on hold after
considering factors including current market conditions,
according to the filing.  Huang, who is serving a 14-year prison sentence on bribery
and insider trading charges, owns about a third of the company
with his wife Lisa  Du Juan , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  