-- 
Google’s Schmidt Says Acquisition of Motorola Won’t ‘Screw Up’ Android

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-10-03T10:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/google-s-schmidt-says-acquisition-of-motorola-won-t-screw-up-android.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
said the $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. may spur competition among phone makers using its Android
software, and the company won’t play favorites with its partners.  “The Android ecosystem is the No. 1 priority, and that we
won’t do anything with Motorola, or anybody else by the way,
that would screw up the dynamics of that industry,” Schmidt
said in an Oct. 1 interview with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker in Nantucket, Massachusetts. “We need strong, hard
competition among all the Android players. We won’t play
favorites in the way people are concerned about.”  Schmidt also said the 17,000 patents Google is gaining in
the Motorola deal will “bulk up” its intellectual property and
ultimately end legal battles among competitors in the $207
billion mobile-phone market. His comments come after analysts
raised concerns that the  Mountain View , California-based
company’s August announcement of its biggest acquisition had
made it a competitor to its own handset partners.  Research firm Gartner Inc.’s  Michael Gartenberg  said the
purchase was a “nightmare scenario” for handset manufacturers
using the Android platform. Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) 
have phones running on Android.  Handset makers, which have been building devices with
Google’s operating system since 2008, may have a harder time
cranking out bestselling devices because Motorola Mobility may
get earlier access to the newest technology, said Gartenberg,
based in  San Jose ,  California .  Google, Apple  Schmidt is looking to Android to help the owner of the
world’s most-popular search engine challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as more users access the Internet from mobile
devices. The purchase of Motorola Mobility allows Google to
better understand how to integrate its software with hardware
while strengthening its patent portfolio amid legal battles with
the two older technology companies.  In August, Google accused Microsoft, based in Redmond,
 Washington , and Oracle Corp., based in Redwood City, California,
of waging a “hostile, organized campaign” against its Android
mobile software. Apple, Microsoft and Google have ramped up
spending on patent portfolios in recent months to gain exclusive
rights to a broadening array of technology, much of it used in
smartphones.  ‘Rough Truce’  As bidding intensifies, prices for patents are surging,
fueling concerns that portfolios are overvalued. Oracle sued
Google last year, accusing it of patent infringement over the
use of Java technology used in Android.  “From our perspective, we will end up having enough
patents that we can end up with a rough truce with everybody
else, which is how it’s done,” Schmidt said of Google’s plan to
“bulk up” on patents. “That’s been the pattern in all other
industries, and I’d expect something similar in ours.”  It’s “hard to know” when a truce might be reached,
Schmidt said. Motorola’s patent portfolio wasn’t the most
important factor in deciding to purchase the Libertyville,
Illinois-based company, he said.  A group that includes Cupertino, California-based Apple and
Microsoft beat out Google in June with a $4.5 billion bid for
patents previously owned by Nortel Networks Corp., based in
Mississauga,  Canada .  Rivals are “banding together” to purchase patents they
can use to charge fees that will make Android devices more
expensive, David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer, said in
August.  “The majority of the reasoning had to do with the fact
that we benefit by having a hardware partner at Google who knows
how to build the next generation of tablets and phones,”
Schmidt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 