-- 
Schmidt Urges Using ‘Big Levers’ to Stoke U.S. Growth

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-10-03T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/google-s-schmidt-urges-using-big-levers-to-stoke-u-s-growth.html
Google Inc.  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
called on U.S. policy makers to use their “big levers” to
foster growth through investment and aid to states forced into
fiscal tightening by budget rules.  “Where is the demand going to come today if it’s not from
some form of government action?” Schmidt, 56, said in an Oct. 1
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker in
Nantucket,  Massachusetts , where he was attending a conference.
“The government has big levers that it can apply but it needs
to do it in the short term.”  American lawmakers have yet to act on President Barack Obama’s $447 billion stimulus plan designed to stoke jobs growth
in an economy restrained by 9.1 percent unemployment. The U.S.
and Europe face about a 40 percent chance of a prolonged period
of stagnation should policy makers fail to restore confidence,
according to analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The federal government can spend as much money as it
wants because we borrow in our own currency,” said Schmidt, who
led the world’s most popular search engine for almost a decade
before  Larry Page  took the chief executive officer post in
April. Overseas demand may not help much because “we already
have one of the cheapest currencies we ever had and yet we still
cannot export ourselves out of this recession,” he said.  Against the yen, the dollar slumped in August to its lowest
level in the postwar era. It traded at 76.85 yen as of 6 p.m. in
 Tokyo , about 1 percent from the Aug. 19 nadir. It has also
retreated 7 percent versus the euro in the past two years, to
$1.3333.  Cheap to Borrow  Federal borrowing costs have dropped this year even with an
increasing fiscal burden as investors flocked to Treasuries as a
haven. Yields on 10-year U.S. government notes were 1.88 percent
today, compared with an average of about 3.80 percent in the
past five years.  Gains in U.S. payrolls in September were probably too small
to reduce joblessness and manufacturing almost stalled as
concern mounted that the global recovery was losing momentum,
economists said before reports this week.  “All of the economists that I know agree that in a
situation where there is a strong possibility of a very long-
term recession, or at least a structural growth recession, which
many people think we’re in, you need to do something now,”
Schmidt said. The economy isn’t creating new jobs and the
scenario may not change for a “very long time,” he said.  Job Market  Payrolls increased by 50,000 after no change in August,
according to the median forecast of 67 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Oct. 7. The jobless
rate was 9.1 percent in September for a third month, according
to the survey median. Private payrolls, which exclude government
jobs, rose 90,000 after a gain of 17,000 in the prior month,
economists forecast the employment report will also show.  “Economic growth comes from the private sector with
government assistance,” Schmidt said. The government should
provide grants to the states to help them through the economic
slowdown that has led them to lay off employees, he said.  “The states are restricted to actually having balanced
budgets and with revenues going up and down, it’s extraordinary
hardship at the state level and that contributes to the economic
decline,” Schmidt said. “A simple thing to do would be block
grants to the states to help them through this.”  Obama last month proposed a $447 billion jobs plan that
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast would help avoid a
return to recession by maintaining growth and pushing down the
 unemployment rate  next year. The  Federal Reserve  last month
unveiled a plan to bring down longer-term rates by shifting
assets on its balance sheet away from shorter-dated securities.  Research Investment  Schmidt, who holds a Ph.D. in computer science and worked
for more than a decade as a technology executive before joining
 Mountain View , California-based Google in 2001, said the U.S.
needs a “national agreement on what it means to be
competitive.”  “It galls me that other countries are growing so much more
quickly than we are because they are investing in the productive
parts of their society and they’ve chosen to or don’t have some
of the systems that we have that are not very productive,” said
Schmidt, who helped develop the Java Internet-programming
language when at software maker Sun Microsystems Inc. “We have
to have that conversation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  