-- 
Google Takes Page From Sunday Newspaper With New ‘Circulars’ Internet Ads

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/google-takes-page-from-sunday-newspaper-with-new-circulars-ads.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is on a quest to make
 Internet advertising  look more like the Sunday paper.  The online-search giant is working with advertisers such as
Best Buy Co. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to create Web-based circulars,
similar to the ad inserts included in newspapers. The new
service will be available starting tomorrow,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said.  “Retail in general is a large category for us,” Nick Fox,
vice president of  product management  at Google, said in an
interview. “They’re trying to understand what the answer is in
the digital age to the offline print circular. They’re trying to
understand how to get their online visitors into their stores.
And this is our answer to that.”  Google, the world’s biggest search engine, is looking for
ways to parlay that leadership into new sources of revenue.
Search advertising also is increasingly shifting toward using
more visual elements, including video and product images, a
break from the text-only listings of the past. Almost a third of
Google’s search ads now use the newer formats, up from about a
quarter at the beginning of the year, Fox said.  Web surfers will find the circular-style advertising, which
shows multiple pictures and large type, by clicking on search
ads. The service will automatically craft the promotions based
on factors such as query topics and the location of users.  More Clicks  Google will grab 76 percent of the U.S. market for search-
based ad revenue this year, up from 74 percent in 2010,
according to estimates from  EMarketer Inc.  in  New York . Next
year, Google may expand to 78 percent, the research firm said.  Another new Google format provides more than one click
option on an ad -- for instance, links might go to different
products from the same company. This approach increases click-
through rates from 15 percent to more than 50 percent, depending
on the number of extra links there are in the ad, the company
said. Google typically gets paid for the advertising after a
user clicks on it.  “It’s becoming a core part of what our advertisers are
doing,” Fox said.  The new circular formats also will be available for display
ads, such as banner advertising, he said.  Even as it tries to replicate print advertising online,
Google isn’t ignoring old-fashioned media. To tout its new ad
formats, the company is rolling out a marketing campaign that
will include both Internet and print advertising, Fox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  