-- 
Gordhan Says South Africa’s February Growth Forecasts ‘Far Too Ambitious’

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-04T06:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/gordhan-says-south-africa-s-february-growth-forecasts-far-too-ambitious-.html
South Africa ’s economic growth
forecasts are “far too ambitious” as financial market turmoil
derails the global recovery, undermining the government’s goal
of slashing unemployment, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  The rout on world markets has “cast a shadow” on South
 Africa ’s economic outlook, Gordhan said in a speech in
Johannesburg yesterday.  “Our growth projections at the time of the budget and
before the current market turmoil were for the economy to grow 4
percent a year for the next three years,” Gordhan said.
“Clearly that is far too ambitious in the current context
unless we do something spectacular for ourselves.”  Gordhan’s comments indicate he may trim projections that
the economy will expand 3.4 percent this year and 4.1 percent in
2012 when he presents his mid-term budget on Oct. 25. The
central bank on Sept. 22 cut its forecast for economic growth
this year to 3.2 percent from 3.7 percent, while lowering next
year’s estimate to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent.  The European debt crisis threatens to cause another
recession, weakening the recovery in Africa’s biggest economy.
 Europe  buys about a third of the nation’s manufactured goods.  “The weakening growth performance in developed markets and
escalation in market volatility has cast a shadow over our own
domestic outlook,” Gordhan said. “Business and consumer
confidence readings have declined, highlighting growing
pessimism regarding the health of our economy.”  Growth Slowing  South Africa’s economy expanded at an annualized rate of
1.3 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in about two
years, as manufacturing and mining output plunged. The  Reserve
Bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent last month, adding that it would “act appropriately”
if it needs to protect the economy from the global crisis.  The government’s plan to boost growth to 7 percent a year
in order to create 5 million jobs by 2020 “may not be
possible” for now, Gordhan said. The global recovery may take
longer than previously thought, he said.  South Africa’s jobless rate of 25.7 percent is the highest
of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The rand depreciated for a fourth day, weakening as much as
0.9 percent to 8.3003 per dollar and trading 0.1 percent down at
8.2349 by 8:33 a.m. in Johannesburg. The currency has lost 19
percent this year, making it the worst performer among more than
20 emerging-market currencies against the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  