-- 
Papandreou Not Considering Resignation Over Greek Crisis, Spokesman Says

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-03T23:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/greek-leader-papandreou-not-prepared-to-resign-spokesman-says.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  isn’t considering resigning, said a spokesman from
his office in  Athens .  The spokesman, who declined to be named, denied a report in
the Financial Times Deutschland saying Papandreou has twice
spoken about his resignation with confidants in the past three
weeks. Both times Papandreou offered his resignation yet
continued working, the newspaper said, citing people familiar
with the matter.  Papandreou’s government yesterday submitted a 2012 budget
with 6.6 billion euros ($8.7 billion) of savings, including a
second round of pension and wage cuts to bring the 2012 deficit
to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product as the country moves
closer to securing an 8 billion-euro aid payout needed to avoid
default.  Greece  is rushing to meet demands amid doubts from partners
it is doing enough to receive the sixth payment of loans under a
May 2010 European Union-led bailout. As Papandreou fights
investor doubts and domestic protests, European leaders are
squabbling over the terms of a July 21 agreement for more
financing for Greece to keep it shielded from markets and the
prospect that they will be forced to channel more money to keep
Greece in the currency union.  Austerity Measures  Papandreou adopted the austerity measures under pressure
from the EU,  International Monetary Fund  and  European Central
Bank  as the country’s three-year recession sapped the revenue
needed to close the fiscal gap just two months after he pushed
through a five-year 78 billion-euro package of budget cuts and
state asset sales to receive a fifth loan payment in June.  This year’s austerity measures allow for dismissal of state
workers, a first for the country. The government by December
will identify 30,000 public workers who will be put on reduced
pay and either retire early or eventually be fired.  The plan aims to save 300 million euros from the government
wage bill in 2012 and have drawn renewed opposition from union
groups.  “For the first time since the foundation of the Greek
state and after a century of struggle, the permanency of civil
servants is being abolished in the most inhuman,
unconstitutional and illegal manner,” said Athens-based ADEDY,
which represents about 750,000 state workers and has called a
strike for Oct. 5. The government has decided “to offer up
state workers as prey to the country’s creditors.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  