-- 
Groupon’s Stumbles May Force It to Pare Back Size of IPO

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/groupon-s-stumbles-seen-paring-back-size-of-ipo-as-investor-interest-wanes.html
Groupon Inc., the largest online-
coupon site, may have to settle for a smaller initial public
offering as management gaffes, restated results and regulatory
scrutiny leave investors leery of owning the stock.  The valuation might need to drop to as low as $3 billion to
$5 billion to entice shareholders, said Josef Schuster, founder
of  IPOX Schuster LLC , which invests in IPOs. That’s a fraction
of $25 billion that was said to be discussed as a potential
valuation when Groupon met with underwriters earlier this year.
It’s also below the $6 billion  Google Inc. (GOOG)  offered last year.  “Interest is diminishing by the week,” said Schuster, who
manages $2.5 billion in assets for the Chicago-based fund. “All
the news that’s coming out underlines some form of turmoil in
the company. As an IPO investor, you don’t want that.”  The startup has drawn criticism for unusual accounting
practices, rising marketing costs and the loss of two chief
operating officers in six months. Combined with the stock
market’s recent volatility, the events have made IPO investors
wary of the deal, Schuster said.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment on the company’s IPO plans.  The company has already postponed its IPO and pushed back
meetings with investors due to stock-market swings, people
familiar with the matter said last month. With investors more
tepid on the company, it may have to delay the offering further,
reduce the size or value, or pull it altogether, said  Ryan Jacob , managing partner at Jacob Internet Fund.  Down to Earth  “The valuation may not be as high as some people
optimistically thought a few months back,” Jacob said.  While Groupon has revised its prospectus to clarify
accounting practices, the company hasn’t proved to investors
that its business can keep growing and eventually turn a profit,
 Michael Cuggino , who helps manage about $15 billion at Permanent
Portfolio Funds in San Francisco.  “I’m not quite sure the model is sustainable,” said
Cuggino, who considered investing in Groupon but is less
interested now. “The marketing costs and the costs of acquiring
customers seem high. I’m not convinced that on a long-term basis
the stores or vendors they are working with are going to stick
around.”  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
 Groupons  -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It then splits the revenue with the businesses.  Attracting Users  In a regulatory filing, Groupon said it’s having to spend
more money to add users to its e-mail list. In 2010, the company
spent $241.5 million to add 48.8 million subscribers, or about
$4.95 per subscriber added. In the first half of this year, it
spent $345.1 million to add 65.1 million subscribers, or about
$5.30 for each one. That could be worrisome to investors, said
Mark Fickes, a partner at law firm  BraunHagey & Borden LLP  in
 San Francisco .  “For a company that’s going public, that’s really
important,” said Fickes, who previously worked at the
Securities and Exchange Commission. “Investors are going to
look at that and see that it’s getting more and more costly for
the company to acquire that revenue.”  The company also restated 2010 sales to $312.9 million,
down from a previous level of $713.4 million. In its earlier
accounting, Groupon counted the total amount of its daily-deal
sales as revenue, including fees paid to merchants. The company
had already abandoned an operating-income approach that critics
said masked Groupon’s true costs.  ‘Wildly Profitable’  In July, Groupon updated its IPO filing, asking investors
to disregard comments made the prior month by Chairman Eric Lefkofsky in a Bloomberg News story. In June, Lefkofsky had
said, “Groupon is going to be wildly profitable.” The company
said the statement doesn’t accurately or completely reflect his
views.  Many companies have overcome gaffes to hold successful
IPOs. Salesforce.com Inc.’s 2004 offering was delayed after
Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff disclosed information to
the New York Times that wasn’t in filings. Google caused
controversy that same year when founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  were quoted speaking to Playboy magazine during their quiet
period, which the SEC requires before IPOs.  “There are very few IPOs that come down the pike that
don’t have questions,” Ryan said.  While investors may look past out-of-school comments by
executives, management turnover might give them pause. Margo Georgiadis left the company in September after five months as
chief operating officer.  Brad Williams , the former head of
communications, and Rob Solomon, Georgiadis’s predecessor as
operating chief, also left earlier this year after short stints.  Lack of Faith?  “You would expect that people wouldn’t be so quick to jump
ship if they had more faith in the business model,” Cuggino
said. “It is a potential indicator that the business model may
have some holes in it that people discover once they join the
company.”  Groupon also faces a bleak market for new stocks, with
companies shelving IPOs at a record pace last quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That could make it more difficult
for Groupon to lure investors, said Michael Binger, a  fund
manager  at Thrivent Asset Management in  Minneapolis .  “The sentiment of the market has changed from being
optimistic to pessimistic,” said Binger, who said he would
still consider investing in Groupon. “It’s a lot harder for a
company to become public in a pessimistic market.”  If investors are reluctant to buy, Groupon may find itself
wishing it had sold itself to Google last year, Binger said.
Talks between the companies broke down in December after Groupon
spurned the $6 billion bid.  “Groupon made a mistake in not accepting that offer,” he
said. “Groupon would have been a very successful product within
Google.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  