-- 
Global Air-Travel Growth Slowing as Confidence Wanes, IATA Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-10-03T08:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/iata-says-august-passenger-demand-rises-4-5-on-previous-year.html
Growth in global  air travel  slowed in
August and a freight decline deepened as business and consumer
confidence waned amid concern that economies may slide into
recession, the  International Air Transport Association  said.  Passenger traffic grew 4.5 percent in August, slowing from
a 6 percent gain in July, the trade group said in a statement
today.  Europe  logged the biggest year-to-year advance at 7.4
percent and  North America  the smallest at 0.9 percent, with U.S.
domestic travel contracting 0.3 percent, it said.  “The industry has shifted gears downward,” IATA Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said in the statement. “With
business and consumer confidence continuing to slump there is
not a lot of optimism for improved conditions anytime soon.”  Airline-industry net income will probably shrink to $4.9
billion in 2012 from an estimated $6.9 billion this year as the
economy stalls, IATA said Sept. 20. Carriers collectively lose
money if economic growth drops below 2 percent, it reckons.  A contraction in freight markets accelerated in August,
with traffic down 3.8 percent versus a year earlier, more than
double the pace of the 1.8 percent decline in July, IATA said.  The average passenger load factor, a measure of seat
occupancy, fell 1.3 percentage points to 81.4 percent.  “Airlines are bracing for tough times ahead,” Tyler said in
the statement. “Economic uncertainty owing to the European
sovereign debt crisis and the growing likelihood of a protracted
period of slow growth in developed economies mean the industry
will be even more focused on reducing costs.”  The IATA chief repeated calls for cuts in aviation taxes
and said a reduction in U.K. Air Passenger Duty in  Northern
Ireland , announced last week, should be extended to the rest of
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  