-- 
Microsoft’s Ballmer Got Half Maximum Bonus on Windows Sales

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-03T23:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/microsoft-chief-ballmer-gets-half-of-maximum-bonus-amid-slower-phone-sales.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  wasn’t awarded his full bonus for fiscal
2011, citing lower-than-expected sales of phones based on the
company’s software and a drop in revenue in its Windows unit.  Ballmer, 55, received $1.38 million in pay, according to a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That
included a bonus equal to 100 percent of his base salary, half
of the maximum he could have been awarded. Still, the board
noted in the filing that it regards Ballmer as “underpaid.”  While directors praised Ballmer for the company’s operating
income, progress on the next version of Windows and partnerships
with Facebook Inc. and Nokia Oyj, they voiced concerns about
lower sales of Windows software and the need to be quicker to
adapt the software to work on new devices. Ballmer has come
under fire from some investors, including Greenlight Capital
Inc. President  David Einhorn , who used a May speech to call on
Microsoft’s board to replace him.  “He deserves this bonus,” said Kim Caughey Forrest, an
analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc. She said she’s
encouraged by the newest version of Windows, unveiled last
month. “I see the light at the end of the tunnel, and it’s a
pretty big light. They came a huge way for me.”  At the same time, Ballmer didn’t deserve the maximum amount
because he and the board aren’t returning enough cash to
shareholders, said Caughey Forrest, whose firm manages about
$1.1 billion, including Microsoft shares.  Windows Revenue  The popularity of tablets such as Apple Inc.’s iPad
contributed to the decline in Windows revenue in fiscal 2011,
which ended June 30. Some shareholders may balk at Ballmer’s 100
percent bonus because they think the new Windows isn’t coming
fast enough, Caughey Forrest said.  “You could posit Windows 8 and the whole reaction to the
phenomenon of tablets and mobile devices is a few years too
late,” she said.  Microsoft’s board lauded Ballmer for making progress on the
company’s Bing search engine and Azure cloud software; the
successful release of the Kinect gaming device; the introduction
of the Office 365 Internet-based versions of its productivity
software; work toward the acquisition of Skype Technologies SA;
and a “strong financial year.”  Ballmer, who owns almost 4 percent of the company’s
outstanding shares, doesn’t get stock compensation at his own
request, the filing said.  For fiscal 2010, Ballmer also received 100 percent of a
maximum 200 percent bonus, with the board citing concerns about
new devices and a loss of market share in phone software.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  