-- 
Tiger Woods’s Video Game Cover Companions to Be Picked Online By Fans

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T18:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/tiger-woods-s-video-game-cover-companions-to-be-picked-online-by-fans.html
Tiger Woods will be sharing the cover
of his next video game installment with fellow PGA Tour players,
to be selected in an online fan vote.  Two regional covers for  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s “Tiger
Woods PGA Tour 13,” which launches in March 2012, will be
created -- one featuring Woods with another American golfer and
another with Woods joined by a top European pro, EA said in a
statement.  The eight Americans -- Ben Crane, Rickie Fowler, Jim Furyk,
Dustin Johnson, Zach Johnson, Hunter Mahan, Rocco Mediate and
Bubba Watson -- will square off in weeklong head-to-head
bracket-style fan votes beginning today on  Facebook  until one
winner is announced Oct. 24 on the social media website. The
same competition will take place with eight Europeans --  Paul Casey , Luke Donald,  Ross Fisher , Graeme McDowell,  Rory McIlroy ,
Edoardo Molinari,  Ian Poulter  and Justin Rose.  The golfers were selected based on a combination of their
world rankings, in-season tour standing and popularity as
measured by followers on Twitter, Facebook and their own
websites.  Woods, who failed to qualify for the U.S. PGA Tour playoffs
this year, dropped out of the top 50 of the Official World Golf
Rankings today for the first time since October 1996. The 35-
year-old has won 71 times on the PGA Tour, third all-time behind
Sam Snead (82) and Jack Nicklaus (73). Woods hasn’t won a
tournament since November 2009.  Electronic Arts also has used fan votes to select the cover
athletes for its “Madden NFL 12” and “NCAA Football 12”
video games.  The golf game again will include Augusta National Golf
Club, home of the Masters Tournament, while a collector’s
edition will include five additional courses and Augusta
National’s practice facility.  The game also will be available on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox
360 Kinect motion control system, Redwood City, California-based
Electronic Arts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 