-- 
Illinois Arbitrator Stops Quinn’s Plan to Dismiss 1,900 Workers

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-10-03T17:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/illinois-arbitrator-stops-quinn-s-plan-to-dismiss-1-900-workers.html
An arbitrator ruled that Illinois
Governor  Pat Quinn ’s budget-cutting proposal to dismiss more
than 1,900 state workers and close seven facilities violates a
collective-bargaining agreement with unions.  Arbitrator Edwin Benn wrote in a 40-page opinion that
Quinn’s plan, unveiled Sept. 8, “is in violation of the clear
language” of a 2010 cost-saving agreement between the state and
Council 31 of the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees that guaranteed no job cuts or closings
before July 1.  Quinn said that the budget lawmakers approved was
insufficient to keep government operating through the end of the
fiscal year June 30, and that the cuts would avert a shutdown.
The closings included three psychiatric hospitals, two
developmental centers, a prison and a juvenile-detention center.  “This order is unequivocal,” said union council Executive
Director Henry Bayer in a prepared statement. “Governor Quinn
should rescind all threatened layoffs and closures. Failure to
do so will not only harm the vital public services state
employees provide, it will expose the state to significant
damages for lost wages, benefits and other costs incurred as a
result of the governor’s irresponsible actions.”  Stubborn Facts  Quinn defended the dismissals in a statement released from
his office in  Chicago , saying, “You can’t spend money you don’t
have.”  “The actions taken by the administration last month are
necessary to manage a budget that underfunded the operational
and personnel lines in a number of state agencies,” Quinn said
in the statement. “This ruling does not change the fact that
the money to run all these facilities for the entire year was
not appropriated by the General Assembly.”  The dismissals and closings weren’t to begin until next
year.  Illinois lawmakers ended their spring session June 1
without paying an estimated $6.2 billion in overdue bills to
vendors. Quinn had proposed borrowing to cover the backlog.  Lawmakers in January increased personal-income taxes by 67
percent and the corporate rate by 46 percent to eliminate half
of a projected $13 billion deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  