-- 
IMF Says ‘Premature’ to Discuss Belarus Aid During Mission Visit

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-10-03T12:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/imf-says-premature-to-discuss-belarus-aid-during-mission-visit.html
The  International Monetary Fund  won’t
negotiate a new financial-aid package to Belarus during a visit
this month by the lender’s mission to the capital, Minsk.  “At the moment, it would be premature to speak about the
possible volume of hypothetical IMF assistance for Belarus,”
Natalia Koliadina, the lender’s resident representative in the
country, said in a phone interview from Minsk today.  The former Soviet republic, which received $3.5 billion
from the Washington-based fund in 2009, requested a new
stabilization loan in June to help overcome a balance-of-
payments crisis that forced a 36 percent devaluation in May and
a further 38 percent decline last month after the authorities
allowed the national currency to trade freely.  The government is seeking as much as $7 billion from the
IMF, Belta said today, citing First Deputy Finance Minister
Vladimir Amarin. The lender urged Belarus to show “commitment
to strong policies and structural reforms” before it qualifies
for more financial aid, according to a report published Sept. 13
after talks with Belarusian officials that concluded Aug. 29.  The IMF mission, led by  Chris Jarvis , will work in Belarus
Oct. 5-17, Koliadina said. Reaching an understanding on the
country’s macroeconomic framework with the fund would facilitate
a new program of assistance, Koliadina said, adding that fiscal
tightening and recent increases in  interest rates  are steps in
the right direction.  Introducing a “unified” exchange rate later this month
will help stabilize the foreign-exchange market, Koliadina said.  IMF Pressure  Belarus has come under pressure from the IMF to reform its
political and economic system and release political prisoners.
The unsettled political situation, including political
prisoners, the breakup of protests by force and western
sanctions against the government, are among risks to the
country’s economic outlook, the lender said Sept. 13.  President Aleksandr Lukashenko on Oct. 1 freed Dmitry Uss,
a presidential candidate in last year’s elections, on
“humanitarian grounds,” two weeks after pardoning 11 political
prisoners convicted of protesting the December ballot.  The Belarusian leader previously released 13 people
sentenced for organizing and participating in mass protests
during the elections. Four remain in prison after the Oct. 1
announcement, including two opposition figures, Andrei Sannikov
and Nikolai Statkevich, who competed against Lukashenko last
December.  Belarus left the Eastern Partnership Summit, a European
Union conference with eastern neighbors held last week in
Warsaw, citing decisions from the gathering touching on Belarus
as “not legitimate,” the Foreign Ministry in Minsk said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for the release of
political prisoners and intensified EU sanctions against the
country. EU leaders attending the meeting issued a statement
expressing “deep concern at the deteriorating human rights,
democracy and rule of law situation in Belarus” and called for
the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  