-- 
India 10-Year Bond Yield Jumps to 3-Year High on Borrowing Plan

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-03T13:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/india-10-year-bond-yield-jumps-to-3-year-high-on-borrowing-plan.html
India ’s 10-year bonds fell for a
fifth day, pushing yields to a three-year high, after the
government said it will sell 32 percent more debt in the next
six months than previously planned.  The notes extended five quarters of declines after the
 finance ministry  said on Sept. 29 it will borrow 2.2 trillion
rupees ($45 billion) by March, compared with an earlier target
for 1.67 trillion rupees. The market was shut Sept. 30 as banks
were closing half-yearly accounts. Increasing debt sales means
the nation will miss a target to cut the budget deficit to 4.6
percent of gross domestic product, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Bond yields “are likely to remain elevated over the next
few months owing to increased government bond issuance,” Atsi
Sheth, senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., wrote
in a report published today. “In combination with a likely
widening of the  budget deficit  over the course of the year, it
suggests a slower path to fiscal consolidation.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent securities due April 2021 rose
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.54 percent at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. That is the highest level for benchmark 10-year
rates since September 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government’s shortfall may increase to 5.5 percent in
the fiscal year through March from 4.7 percent in the previous
12 months, said  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific sovereign ratings at Fitch. The ratings company today
said that any further deterioration in government finances may
“weigh” on India’s debt ratings, even though last week’s
decision to increase the annual borrowing plan was expected.  Fiscal Outlook  “We already expected the 4.6 percent deficit target to be
missed but if we saw further weakening in the fiscal outlook,
then that would weigh on the ratings,” said Colquhoun. “We
still think the debt-to-GDP ratio will be coming down because of
the strength of the nominal GDP growth. The announcement of
extra borrowing is what we would’ve expected to happen.”  India’s decision to issue more debt is “not surprising”
and is “within the scope of expectations,” said  Takahira
Ogawa , Singapore-based director of sovereign and international
public finance ratings at  Standard & Poor’s . The nation’s budget
deficit in the fiscal year ending March 31 will be wider than
the government’s estimate of a four-year low of 4.6 percent, he
said in an e-mail today.  “To maintain the market’s confidence, it is becoming more
important for the government to show its commitment to fiscal
consolidation in the medium term,” Ogawa said.  “The content
and timing of enactment of next year’s budget will be very
important factors for India’s sovereign rating.”  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose 12 basis points to 7.91 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  