-- 
India Stock Futures Drop as U.S. Data Raises Earnings Concern

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-10-03T02:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/india-stock-futures-drop-as-u-s-data-raises-earnings-concern.html
India ’s stock-index futures fell,
signaling the benchmark index may extend its biggest slump in
three years, as slowing U.S. incomes and  consumer spending 
stoked concern earnings at Indian exporters will falter.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for October delivery
declined 67.5 points, or 1.4 percent, to 4,863.5 at 10:18 a.m.
in  Singapore . The futures are derived from the 50 stocks on the
underlying S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India, which dropped 1.4 percent to 4,943.25 on Sept. 30. The
BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 1.5 percent to
16,453.76.  U.S. consumer spending slowed in August as incomes
unexpectedly declined for the first time in almost two years.
Gains in U.S. payrolls in September were probably too small to
reduce joblessness and manufacturing almost stalled as concern
mounted that the global recovery was losing momentum, economists
said before reports this week.  “What is not in the price now is a continued recession
scenario, which might come in the global economies,” K. Ramanathan, chief investment officer at ING Investment
Management Pvt., said in a interview on Bloomberg UTV.
“Inflation, interest-rate increases and a domestic slowdown
have already been accounted for. Consensus corporate earnings
growth estimates have been brought down significantly.”  Quarterly Slump  The Sensex slumped 13 percent last quarter, the biggest
loss since the three months ended December 2008, on concern the
central bank’s record series of interest-rate increases may
compound the effects of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
slowing economic growth in the U.S. on corporate profits.
Companies in the gauge trade at 13.6 times estimated earnings,
compared with 9.4 times on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised its repurchase rate for a
12th time since March 2010 on Sept. 16 to contain prices that
are rising the fastest among so-called BRICS nations of  Brazil ,
 Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa . India’s wholesale-price
inflation reached a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August,
staying above 9 percent for nine months, while food prices
accelerated for the first time in four weeks last week. The bank
meets on Oct. 25 for its next policy review.  India’s inflation rate remains above the level the central
bank deems acceptable, Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  indicated last
week, underscoring that pressure remains for monetary tightening
in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Inflation Threshold  “Above a threshold, you can’t accept high inflation to
have higher growth,” Subbarao said on Sept. 26. India’s economy
will grow 7.8 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in its World Economic Outlook on Sept. 20, slower than the
8.2 percent estimated in June.  “I do think that we are approaching the peaking of the
interest-rate cycle,” Vibhav Kapoor, group chief investment
officer at IL&FS, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV last
week. “But I doubt whether  interest rates  can start coming down
immediately.”  India’s rupee weakened by the most in three years in
September as Asian currencies slumped on concern the global
economy is headed for a recession, dimming the outlook for
exports and prompting investors to favor safer bets than
emerging-market assets. Indian software exporters get about
three-quarters of their revenue from overseas.  Profit Concern  Infosys Ltd., India’s second-biggest software-services
provider, will report results on Oct. 12, the first company in
the Nifty to post earnings for the quarter ending Sept. 30.  “I don’t think that the market is suddenly going to react
very positively to earnings,” Vibhav Kapoor, group chief
investment officer at IL&FS, said in an interview with Bloomberg
UTV. “There is still going to be a lot of concern on how things
are going to go into the third and fourth quarter. I don’t think
it’s going to lead to a great upside.”  Profits for 47 percent of Sensex companies missed analyst
estimates in the three months ended June, according to Bloomberg
data. That compares with 33 percent that lagged behind forecasts
in the previous quarter.  Indian Oil Corp. may gain after the nation’s largest
refiner increased the price of  jet fuel  in Mumbai to 59,359
rupees ($1,212) a kiloliter starting Oct. 1, from 58,452.31
rupees.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which makes almost half the cars
sold in India, may be active after it said on Oct. 1 workers
will resume duties today as the company resolved a labor dispute
that had disrupted production at its Manesar plant. Sales fell
21 percent from a year earlier to 85,565 vehicles in September,
the company said.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest commercial
vehicle maker, said total sales rose 22 percent in September to
78,786 units.  Overseas investors bought a net 2.52 billion rupees ($51.5
million) of Indian stocks on Sept. 28, reducing their outflow
from equities this year to 2.92 billion rupees, according to
data on the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India. They withdrew a net $2.4 billion in August, the most
since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  