-- 
Indian Stocks are “Shedding Excess Flab,” Daiwa’s Iyer Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-10-03T07:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/indian-stocks-are-shedding-excess-flab-daiwa-s-iyer-says.html
N. Sethuram Iyer, chief investment
officer at Daiwa Asset Management  India  Pvt., comments on the
outlook for Indian equities in an interview to Bloomberg UTV.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, sank 2.4 percent
to 16,064.30 at 12:34 p.m. in Mumbai. The gauge slid 13 percent
in the quarter ended September, the most since the three-month
period ended Dec. 31, 2008.  “The mood is still very uncertain. There’s total
uncertainty about the immediate future in the developed world.
The news from U.S. is not even, it’s mixed.”  Consumer spending  in the U.S. slowed in August as incomes
unexpectedly dropped for the first time in almost two years,
forcing households to dip into savings. Purchases climbed 0.2
percent after a 0.7 percent increase in July, Commerce
Department figures showed on Sept. 30.  On Indian stocks and economy:  “We are shedding the excess flab we gathered.”  The Sensex has plummeted 21 percent this year on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing economic growth in the U.S. may
worsen the effects of the central bank’s record increases in
borrowing costs on corporate profits. The gauge rallied 17
percent in 2010 after surging 81 percent in 2009.  “Slowing down of GDP growth is definitely a concern.”  India’s GDP expansion 7.7 percent last quarter from a year
ago, the slowest pace since 2009, a government report showed on
Aug. 30.  “What would concern a foreign investor is that we are not
done with the interest-rate hikes. There may be another 25 basis
points hike in October.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has increased borrowing costs by
a total of 350 basis points starting mid-March 2010 to tame the
fastest inflation among the so-called BRICS nations. It meets on
Oct. 25 for its next policy review.  “Fiscal deficit is another concern facing us. Depreciation
of the rupee could be dangerous given that we are net importers
of commodities.”  The Indian rupee weakened 8.7 percent last quarter, the
biggest drop since 1992.  On valuations and sectors:  “All these are purely short-term phenomena. We are very
bullish on the markets in the medium-to-long term. India is
high-growth story.  ‘‘This is a market for value-picking. Valuations for a
number of sectors and companies are what one would call dirt-
cheap. There is a lot of value in software stocks because the
rupee drop would have given a big boost to their margins.’’  India’s ‘‘consumption-led growth’’ will boost prospects for
companies in the consumer and pharma sectors, Iyer said.  ‘‘Infrastructure, construction and capital goods are
sectors one has to be cautious about.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 