-- 
Indonesia’s Inflation Slows, Giving Central Bank Room to Keep Rate Steady

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-10-03T04:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/indonesia-s-inflation-slows-providing-room-to-keep-rate-steady.html
Indonesia ’s inflation slowed in
September, giving the central bank room to leave  interest rates 
unchanged as global growth slows.  Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent last month from a year
earlier, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in Jakarta today.
That compares with an inflation rate of 4.79 percent reported
earlier for August and the 4.86 percent median of 17 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. recovery are
clouding the outlook for  Asia ’s exports and prompted policy
makers from Malaysia to Taiwan leave interest rates unchanged
last month. Easing prices may increase  Bank Indonesia’s 
readiness to lower borrowing costs and protect growth after
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono signaled last month that the
central bank has room to cut rates if inflation “behaves.”  “Price pressures remain manageable,” Eugene Leow, an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said before
the report. “Uncertainty over the global economy implies that
commodity prices will remain lackluster. This will help keep a
lid on headline inflation.”  Indonesia’s rupiah fell about 3 percent last month even as
the central bank said it would buy bonds and intervene to
support the currency “until the market cools.”  Bank Indonesia  kept the benchmark reference rate unchanged
at 6.75 percent for a seventh month in September. Policy makers
are ready to “adjust the rate and mix monetary policy toward
loosening” if price gains slow and the economy expands less
than expected due to a global slowdown, Perry Warjiyo, the
bank’s director of economic research, said last month. The next
rate decision will be announced Oct. 11.  Consumer prices gained 0.27 percent in September from the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Core inflation  slowed to
4.93 percent, compared with a previously reported 5.15 percent
pace a month earlier.  Indonesia’s exports rose 37.1 percent in August from a year
earlier, the statistics department said in a separate report
today. That compares with the 39.5 percent pace reported earlier
for July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  