-- 
Internet Overseer Should Review Ethics Policy, Ad Group Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-03T19:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/internet-overseer-should-review-ethics-policy-ad-group-says-1-.html
The organization that manages the
Internet’s domain-name system should conduct a “systematic
review” of its ethics policies, according to a group
representing large corporations and advertisers.  The failure of the  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers  to close “numerous loopholes” in its conflict-of-
interest policy “would raise the most profound questions as to
the ability of ICANN to represent the public interest,” Robert Liodice, president of the Association of National Advertisers,
wrote in an Oct. 2 letter to Icann chief executive officer Rod Beckstrom.  ANA, which represents more than 400 companies including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , also sent the letter to
officials at the White House and U.S. Commerce Department, as
well as members of the U.S. Senate and House.  Icann, a nonprofit group that operates under a Commerce
Department contract, approved a plan June 20 to allow
potentially hundreds of new Web suffixes such as .bank and .nyc
to spur online innovation. The ANA and other industry groups
have said the domain-name expansion will confuse consumers and
increase costs for businesses.  Four days after Icann’s vote, Peter Dengate Thrush, the
organization’s chairman, finished his term and within a month
joined a London company called Top Level Domain Holdings Ltd.,
which intends to acquire Web suffixes created by the new plan
and offer Internet registry services.  Watchdog Criticism  Dengate Thrush’s move and that of another former Icann
employee who joined the Financial Services Roundtable, a
Washington-based lobbying group whose members include  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have drawn criticism
from government watchdogs.  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey , California, oversees 22
generic top-level domains, known as gTLDs, including the .com,
.org and .net suffixes, which together account for almost 120
million Internet addresses.  The group has about 130 employees, including 10 in
 Washington , and operates under a zero-dollar contract with the
Commerce Department. It collects fees from companies such as
 VeriSign Inc. (VRSN)  and GoDaddy.com Inc. that generate revenue by
helping businesses and consumers obtain domain names. For the
year ended June 30, Icann reported $68.3 million in revenue,
much of it from fees.  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, has called on the
Commerce Department to include ethics and conflict-of-interest
rules in any future contract to manage the domain-name system.  The  National Telecommunications and Information
Administration , which is part of the Commerce Department, plans
to open the Icann-held contract for bidding this fall, and has
said it is considering adding conflict of interest rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  