-- 
Lira Falls to Record Low as Inflation Bolsters Rate-Cut Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-03T16:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/lira-slides-after-export-growth-slows-europe-debt-crisis-concern-deepens.html
The lira weakened to a record-low as
slowing inflation spurred speculation the central bank will keep
cutting  interest rates  and concern  Europe ’s credit crisis will
worsen damped investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  The lira depreciated 1 percent to 1.8787 per dollar at 7
p.m. in Istanbul, the weakest level on a closing basis since at
least February 1981 when Bloomberg began tracking the data. The
currency has declined 18 percent this year.  Turkey’s currency is the second-worst performer after  South
Africa ’s rand among more than 20 emerging-market currencies as
the central bank cut its benchmark rate three times since
December to buoy the economy and concern deepened policy makers
would struggle to contain prices increases. Inflation slowed to
6.2 percent in September from 6.7 percent a month earlier, the
statistics office in Ankara said today.  “Given the adverse growth environment, we think that the
central bank would still cut rates” when markets settle down,
 Tatha Ghose , senior emerging-market economist at Commerzbank AG
in  London , said in e-mailed comments.  Emerging-market stocks fell the most in a week today as
European officials prepared to discuss how to shield banks from
the debt crisis and boost the region’s rescue fund after  Greece 
missed a deficit target for 2012.  Turkey’s two-year lira-denominated bonds gained, driving
down yields one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.40
percent, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  While the central bank cut rates to spur growth, it raised
reserve requirements to curb lending to contain the current-
account gap. The country’s 12-month current-account gap widened
to a record $74.6 billion in July, equivalent to about 10
percent of gross domestic product.  Yield Outlook  The yield on the two-year bond may retreat to 7.5 percent
in the next three to six months as the central bank cuts rates,
Gizem Oztok Altinsac, an Istanbul-based economist at Garanti
Securities, said in an e-mailed note today. Policy makers may
cut banks’  reserve requirements  by 500 basis points in the next
year, he said.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci predicted inflation
probably will accelerate in the fourth quarter. While a year-
earlier jump in food prices capped the headline rate in
September, the bank’s preferred measure of  core inflation  jumped
to a 2 1/2-year high.  Annual core inflation excluding energy, food, tobacco and
gold prices accelerated to 7 percent in September from 6.2
percent a month earlier, exceeding the rate of headline
inflation for the second time this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  