-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Accelerates as Export Demand Spurs Output

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-increased-to-51-6-in-september.html
Manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in September, propelled by gains in
exports and production.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. A level of 50 is the dividing line between
growth and contraction. The median forecast of 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop to 50.5.  Growing emerging economies like  China  and a rebound in
Japan following the March earthquake and tsunami may continue to
lift demand from overseas, giving a boost to companies like
 Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  and Honda Motor Co. Manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy, may prevent the
recovery from being cut short even as consumer spending cools.  The report points to “an economy that continues to move
sideways, certainly not one that is falling off a cliff,” said
Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in  New York , who forecast the ISM measure
would rise to 52. “The support for new orders was coming from
external demand.”  David Resler  is the chief economic adviser
for Nomura.  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
more than one-year low, on concern over the Greek debt crisis.
The  S&P 500  dropped 2.9 percent to 1,099.21 at the 4 p.m. close
in New York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 1.77 percent from 1.92 percent
late on Sept. 30.  Survey Results  Estimates for the manufacturing index in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 45 to 52. While 50 is the midway point
between expansion and contraction in the industry, a reading
above 42.5 generally indicates an expansion in the overall
economy, the group says.  The ISM report showed the production index climbed over 50
after contracting in August for the first time since May 2009,
when the economy was in a recession. Exports accelerated and
have grown for 27 consecutive months.  Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda’s return to full production in
September may have boosted U.S. auto sales back near the pace
reached before the Japanese earthquake in March left many U.S.
automakers with shortages of parts.  September vehicle sales, released today, rose to a 13
million seasonally adjusted annual rate, exceeding median
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and the strongest
since April, according to industry data. Lost output caused by
 Japan ’s March tsunami crimped supplies of parts and finished
cars.  China’s Economy   Asian economies are leading global growth. A Chinese
manufacturing index advanced in September for a second month as
export orders rebounded to the highest level since May. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 51.2, a four-month high,
compared with 50.9 in August, the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement Oct. 1.  “I would expect us to have another good year in 2012,
relative to China,” David Farr, chairman and chief executive
officer of Emerson Electric, a St. Louis-based maker of
electrical equipment and software, said on an Aug. 2
teleconference.  Other parts of the world are struggling. European
manufacturing shrank for a second month in September, adding to
signs the euro-area economy is close to recession. A factory
gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers in the 17-nation
euro region fell to 48.5 from 49 in August, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  Orders, Backlogs  The ISM report wasn’t universally positive as a gauge of
orders showed total demand shrank in September for a third
consecutive month. A gauge of backlogs decreased to the lowest
level since April 2009.  “Some of the components were still pretty ugly,” said
Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York,
who projected the ISM index would rise to 52. The drop in
backlogs is “worrisome because they are a buffer that allow
companies to continue producing when orders are weak. If that
continues, it will translate into weaker production.”  Orders for capital equipment like computers and
communications gear climbed in August by the most in three
months, the Commerce Department’s report on durable goods showed
last week.  Business Investment  “We are not convinced a pullback in corporate spending is
going to occur,” David Sylvester, chief financial officer of
 Grand Rapids , Michigan-based office equipment-maker  Steelcase
Inc. (SCS) , said on a Sept. 22 conference call with analysts. “Many
corporate balance sheets are as strong as they have ever been.”  Another report today showed construction spending in the
U.S. unexpectedly climbed in August, led by the biggest jump in
state and local government outlays in more than two years.  The 1.4 percent gain reversed the revised 1.4 percent drop
in July, Commerce Department figures showed. The outlays were up
0.9 percent from August 2010 after adjusting for seasonal
variations, the second consecutive positive year-to-year reading
following almost four years of negative comparisons.  Spending by public entities jumped 3.1 percent from the
prior month, the most since February 2009. Federal construction
outlays fell 0.5 percent, a third consecutive drop, while state
and local agencies spent 3.5 percent more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  