-- 
Israeli Protests Ease Prices, Giving Fischer Room on Rates

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-10-04T14:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/israel-protests-ease-prices-giving-fischer-room-to-cut-rates.html
Israeli consumer protests have helped
slow inflation, giving  Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer
room for further reductions in the benchmark  interest rate .  Street demonstrations and boycotts against the high cost of
living have prodded companies to bring down prices and the
government to look into measures to lower consumer costs. Tnuva
Food Industries Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd., which
controls about 70 percent of the dairy market, said Oct. 2 it
was cutting recommended prices by as much as 15 percent.
Competitor Strauss Group Ltd. followed suit. Food costs fell 0.2
percent in August after declining 0.6 percent in July.  “The protests brought down food prices and are also
preventing price increases of other products since manufacturers
and service providers are afraid of being targeted,” said
Victor Bahar, economics department deputy manager at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “All of this gives the Bank of
 Israel  more room to maneuver.”  Fischer, who had been raising rates for more than two years
to battle inflation, reversed policy on Sept. 26 and cut the key
rate by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent, citing the
worsening global economic outlook. The change came as
expectations for inflation, which have exceeded the 1 percent-
to-3 percent target range every month this year, plummet.  Breakeven Rate  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects expectations
for inflation over the period, fell for a third day, dropping to
176, implying an average annual inflation rate of 1.76 percent.
Inflation in August slowed to 3.4 percent from a high this year
of 4.3 percent in March.  The Bank of Israel “has room to ease policy considerably
going forward,” David Hauner, head of Eastern Europe,  Middle
East  and Africa economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 London , wrote in a report today. Market inflation expectations,
which have been the best guide to the Bank of Israel’s rate-
setting in recent years, suggest room for further cuts of 50 to
100 basis points, according to the report.  The shekel strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar
yesterday to 3.7544 per dollar. The Israeli currency has
weakened by about 8 percent in the past six months.  A decline in global commodity prices and the slowing world
economy are also contributing to the decline in the inflation
rate, said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities &
Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Another Cut  Fischer is likely to cut the rate by an additional quarter
of a percentage point by the end of the year, though it may not
come in the next rate decision, at the end of this month, Bahar
said. Thirteen of 16 economists polled by Bloomberg predict the
benchmark rate will remain unchanged, while three predict a
quarter-point reduction.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates in the next two years, were at 2.72
percent today, indicating that another quarter-point reduction
is expected.  The benchmark lending rate may fall to 2.5 percent by the
end of the year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Sept. 27, while
Citigroup Inc. forecast another quarter-point cut this year.  Protesters targeted the cost of cottage cheese in June and
a month later more than 100,000 people had joined a Facebook
page calling for a boycott of the product. The protest inspired
consumer actions against the cost of diapers, baby formula,
 breakfast cereals  and other consumer products.  Tent Camps  Demonstrators later set up tent camps in the center of
several cities to protest what they said was unaffordable
housing. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on Sept. 4 vowed to
ease the cost of living after mass rallies brought about 400,000
people into the streets.  Netanyahu appointed a panel led by economist Manuel Trajtenberg to draft a response to protester grievances. The
Cabinet yesterday examined the panel’s proposals, which include
easing import restrictions, raising corporate taxes, increasing
personal taxes on people earning more than about $130,000 a year
and boosting the supply of affordable housing.  Clal Industries and Investments Ltd. and its cement unit
Nesher would be “significantly” affected should the
recommendations of the committee be adopted, Clal said Sept. 27
in a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 