-- 
Mitsubishi-Backed Kizuna Aims Debut Investment in Private Equity

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-10-03T03:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/mitsubishi-backed-kizuna-aims-debut-investment-in-private-equity.html
Kizuna Capital Partners Co. , backed
by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , is looking at Japanese companies in the
 alternative energy  and health-care industries for its debut
investment of a $120 million  private-equity  fund.  The MC Creat Investment fund started in August to invest in
Japanese and Chinese firms that are trying to expand their
businesses in the two countries, said Tokyo-based Chief
Investment Officer Kenji Tanaka. The fund, set up by Mitsubishi,
Japan’s biggest trading company, and  Creat Group Co. , a Beijing-
based  investment company , aims for an internal rate of return of
about 20 percent, he said.  The fund wants to take advantage of opportunities as
Japanese companies seek to capture demand from China, while
Chinese firms seek Japan’s technological expertise, said Tanaka.  “While top Japanese companies have already branched out in
 China , there are plenty of second-tier firms that are trying to
expand there,” he said in an interview in Tokyo on Sept. 29.
“In the meantime, privatization is finally starting to take
place among Chinese companies, and they are looking to go abroad
and partner with Japanese firms, so it’s a good time for us to
be looking for deals.”  Tanaka, a former banker at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has
narrowed down to five to six potential investment targets out of
20 to 30 companies, and plans to make the first investment by
the end of the first quarter of 2012.  Alternative Energy  Parts makers in the alternative  energy industry , medical
equipment makers, companies in the robotic field that may
benefit as China cuts personnel costs, are among those that may
fit the first investment, Tanaka said. The fund, managed by Hong
Kong-based MC Creat Fund Management, will last for 10 years and
will look to invest in the first five years, he said.  Buyouts in Japan worth between 5 billion yen and 30 billion
yen each more than doubled last year to 20 from eight in 2009,
according to  Japan Buy-out Research Institute Corp.  Overall,
buyouts dropped to 44 in 2010 from 59 the previous year,
according to the researcher.  “We will see some correction in China’s growth story, but
there is no doubt that the underlying economy still remains
strong,’” Tanaka said. “While depending on the industry, the
demand from China is expected to be about 10 times more than
that of  Japan , so this is a great opportunity.”  Most global investors predict Chinese growth will slow to
less than half the pace sustained since the government began
dismantling Mao Zedong’s communist economy three decades ago, a
Bloomberg poll last month indicated.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents said China’s gross
domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last quarter, will gain
less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Twelve percent see such a
slowdown within a year, and 47 percent said it will occur in two
to five years, the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  