-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ Pledges Commitment to Morgan Stanley Alliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-10-04T13:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/mitsubishi-ufj-firmly-committed-to-morgan-stanley-alliance-1-.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
said it’s “firmly committed” to its strategic alliance with
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , as shares of the U.S. bank tumbled to their
lowest level since December 2008.  Japan ’s biggest banking group repeated its commitment to
Morgan Stanley “in response to recent market volatility,”
Mitsubishi UFJ said in a statement yesterday. “The special
relationship we have formed remains core to our global business
strategy.”  Shares of Morgan Stanley have fallen 54 percent this year
as concern intensified that  Europe ’s debt crisis will infect
U.S. bank balance sheets. Mitsubishi UFJ invested $9 billion in
Morgan Stanley in October 2008 as the New York-based firm’s
stock price collapsed after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Confirming the partnership “is not surprising, but
positive,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based banking analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG. “The alliance will enable MUFG to raise
its profit from the U.S. bank through the equity method, and it
has merit for Morgan Stanley to have a steady and loyal
shareholder.”  The banks agreed in April to convert $7.8 billion of
preferred shares into common stock and completed the conversion
in June, making the Tokyo-based bank Morgan Stanley’s largest
common shareholder with a 22.4 percent stake.  Gorman Memo  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53,
sent a memo to employees yesterday, encouraging them to remain
focused on their jobs and clients instead of responding to “the
rumor of the day.”  “There has been an enormous amount of confusion and
misinformation about Morgan Stanley and others in our peer
group,” he wrote in the memo, which was obtained today by
Bloomberg News. “In fragile markets, where fear triumphs over
common sense, these things are bound to happen.”  Gorman attached analyst reports from Credit Suisse Group
AG’s Howard Chen and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Matthew Burnell that
note the firm’s improved financial strength and manageable
exposure to “the euro zone and  France .” Jeanmarie McFadden, a
spokeswoman for the firm, confirmed the memo’s contents.  Shares Fall  Morgan Stanley dropped $1.04, or 7.7 percent, to $12.47
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
lowest closing price since Dec. 2, 2008. The shares have fallen
54 percent this year through yesterday.  Mitsubishi UFJ fell 3.8 percent to 331 yen at the close of
trading today in  Tokyo , extending this year’s decline to 25
percent. Japan’s  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  slid 2.1 percent as discord
among European policy makers fueled concern the region won’t
resolve its debt crisis.  Mitsubishi UFJ still holds about $500 million of non-
convertible preferred stock with a 10 percent dividend. Morgan
Stanley can buy back that stake for about $572 million beginning
on Oct. 15, according to the firm’s annual 10-K filing.  The Japanese bank declared its support for Morgan Stanley
as the cost to protect the U.S. firm’s debt surged to the
highest level since the weeks after Lehman collapsed. Traders
pushed the cost of credit-default swaps on U.S. companies higher
after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opposed moves
to increase the scale of the euro rescue fund, complicating
efforts to prevent a Greek default.  Contracts on Morgan Stanley, the owner of the world’s
largest retail brokerage, soared 92 basis points to a mid-price
of 583 basis points yesterday in  New York , the highest since
October 2008, according to London-based data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  