-- 
J.C. Penney’s Incoming CEO Johnson Hires Target’s Marketing Chief Francis

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-10-03T20:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/j-c-penney-s-incoming-ceo-johnson-hires-target-s-marketing-chief-francis.html
J.C. Penney Co. hired away  Target
Corp. (TGT) ’s chief marketing officer as incoming Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson  builds a team to revamp the third-largest
U.S. department-store chain.  Michael Francis, 48, was named president and will be in
charge of merchandising, marketing and product development,
Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney said today in a statement. Target
earlier today announced the departure of Francis, who had been
at the company since 1990 and was leading its expansion into
 Canada .  Johnson, who left  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in June after building its
retail unit, will become CEO on Nov. 1 and take charge of a
chain that had three straight annual sales declines before a
gain of 1.2 percent in its fiscal 2011. Francis’s hiring
suggests Johnson may end J.C. Penney’s pursuit of upscale
shoppers and focus on thriving as a mall-based discounter, said
Bernard Sosnick, an analyst at Gilford Securities.  “That seems to be a much more effective approach than what
they’ve been doing,” Sosnick, who’s based in Melville,  New
York , said today in a phone interview. He has a “buy” rating
on J.C. Penney and a “hold” rating on Target.  Francis’s hiring is effective tomorrow.  J.C. Penney fell 66 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $26.12 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
rising as much as 2.1 percent following the statement on Francis
joining the company. Target declined $1.24, or 2.5 percent, to
$47.80.  Francis and Johnson worked together at Target, where
Johnson led the Minneapolis-based retailer’s foray into home
design before joining Cupertino, California-based Apple in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  