-- 
Jim Beam Maker Chases Women With Skinnygirl Cocktails: Retail

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/jim-beam-maker-chases-women-with-skinnygirl-cocktails-retail.html
Beam Inc., the newly constituted
maker of Jim Beam bourbon, has decided to chase women.  Having spent 216 years catering to guy’s guys -- tattooed
singer Kid Rock is a pitchman --  Beam is touting Courvoisier 
cognac infused with red wine, tart Pucker vodka and low-calorie
Skinnygirl cocktails. Beam becomes a separately traded company
tomorrow, after splitting from  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)   “Two years ago, 100 percent of our marketing was geared to
men,” Global Chief Marketing Officer Kevin George said in an
interview. “We weren’t talking to women in any specific way.”  Not that Beam Chief Executive Officer Matt Shattock, 49, is
abandoning men. He aims to boost sales faster than the industry
with higher-margin versions of existing brands, such as Beam
Devil’s Cut and Makers 46. He also wants to expand Beam,
Teacher’s Scotch whisky and other primary brands overseas.  While alcohol consumption has declined at restaurants and
bars, drinking at home has risen steadily in the U.S. since the
recession ended in June 2009, according to Bloomberg Industries.
Total spirit sales by suppliers rose 2.3 percent to $19.2
billion last year as they took share from other alcoholic
beverages, according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the
U.S. Americans may guzzle even more this year as they search for
affordable luxuries. Volume sales will increase 1.8 percent,
says Norwalk, Connecticut-based Beverage Information Group.  Fortune Brands, an assemblage of booze, home and golf
products, decided to focus on liquor last year after investor
 William Ackman  pushed for change. The Titleist golf unit was
sold for $1.23 billion this year, while Beam and Fortune Brands
Home & Security Inc., both based in Deerfield,  Illinois , will
trade independently on the New York Stock Exchange.  Accidental Focus  The focus on women happened almost by accident. In 2009,
the distiller introduced a black cherry-infused Jim Beam.
Marketers gave the whiskey a masculine name, Red Stag, and
signed Kid Rock to pitch the product. As sales took off, Beam
discovered women were buying the sweeter concoction at almost
three times the rate at which they typically bought bourbon.  Beam decided to dig deeper, and research revealed what the
company came to call the “girlfriend connection.”  “They tend to drink with other women or in a very social
setting,” said George, 44. “We wanted to understand the
emotional reasons why women drink wine or spirits.”  The resulting insights guided new marketing programs
targeted to women and led to the development of more flavored
spirits. The opportunity was significant. While women make up
almost half of spirits drinkers, they consume just a quarter of
the volume sold, according to George.  “We started to understand how to move that wine occasion
to a spirits occasion,” he said. “Every time I do that, there
are some dollars in it for me.”  Served Cold  When Beam created a flavored Courvoisier cognac, the idea 
was to give women their own version of a classic male drink -- 
popular among rappers -- to share with their husbands and 
boyfriends. Beam cut the alcohol content by more than half. 
The product is designed to be served cold, so that it sits in 
the refrigerator next to the wine, where women are more likely 
to see it, George said.  Beam’s Sauza tequila brand also got in on the fun. About
57 percent of the tequila sold in the U.S. is mixed in
margaritas, George said. Two-thirds of those margaritas are 
consumed by women. Yet, tequila marketers were talking to men.  “It was a shot occasion, it was spring break,” he said.  Sauza began marketing itself around the notion of a
“ladies’ night in,” hosting 1,000 in-home margarita parties
and advertising on Food Network. Research also suggested women
had no loyalty when it came to the tequila in their drinks, so
the company teamed up with restaurants to brand so-called
“Sauzaritas.”  ‘Real Housewives’  Fortune’s new outlook on women led to acquisitions. This
spring, the company bought Skinnygirl cocktails, created by
reality TV star Bethenny Frankel, who appeared on “The Real
Housewives of  New York  City.” The brand caters to women with 
100 calories per serving -- compared with 480 in a typical 
restaurant margarita -- and wine bottle packaging.  Early next year, Beam will begin selling a line of
chocolate liqueurs called Crave. The 30-proof drinks will blend
flavors such as mint, chili pepper and cherry.  CEO Shattock says more acquisitions are possible as he
seeks to expand overseas.  “We won’t feel constrained in terms of the scale,” he
said in an interview last month. “We have a strong and very
flexible capital structure and that gives us the opportunity to
contemplate various types of transactions.” He declined to
identify potential acquisitions or how much the company may pay.  Potential Target  Ultimately, Beam itself -- and its stable of badge brands -
- could become a target. Potential suitors include  Diageo Plc. (DGE) 
and  Pernod-Ricard SA. (RI)   Shattock may have time to see his strategy play out, said
Alfredo Scialabba, an analyst with GFI Group Inc. in New York.
Bidders aren’t likely to come forward immediately at Beam’s
current share price, which on Sept. 30 was $41.56 on a “when-
traded” basis. They may wait for a better opportunity.  “Shattock doesn’t look like a guy there to sell the
company,” Scialabba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  