-- 
Kenya Says Hostage-Takings May Dent Tourism, Investment

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-03T13:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/kenya-says-hostage-takings-may-dent-tourism-investment.html
Kenya  is tightening security after
the killing and kidnapping of foreigners along its coast that
threaten to cut tourism revenue and curb investment in a planned
$5.3 billion port, Planning Minister Wycliffe Oparanya said.  British tourist David Tebbutt was killed and his wife
Judith was abducted last month at a resort in Kiwayu, 503
kilometers (312 miles) southeast of Nairobi, and is being held
hostage in neighboring Somalia. On Oct. 1, Marie Dedieu, a 66-
year-old disabled French woman, was kidnapped from a house on
nearby Manda Island by armed gunmen from Somalia’s al-Shabaab
rebel group, Tourism Minister Najib Balala said in a statement
posted on his Twitter account.  “The government has already established a special security
unit to deal with this menace, especially to take care of
tourists and ensure investors are not scared off,” Oparanya
said in a phone interview from Nairobi today. “Kenya is
shouldering the burden of  Somalia ’s problems.”  The Lamu archipelago, where the incidents took place, is
one of Kenya’s main attractions for tourists who generated 73.7
billion shillings ($731 million) for the country last year, the
second-largest foreign-exchange earner after tea. The U.K.
government changed its travel advice on Oct. 1 to recommend that
visitors to Kenya avoid non-essential travel within 150
kilometers of the border with Somalia, where a civil war has
raged for two decades.  Kenya is counting on a tripling of tourists to 3 million by
2015 to help achieve its goal of 10 percent economic growth.  Second Port  The hostage-takings come as Kenya seeks to develop a second
commercial port in Lamu as early as November, designed to handle
cargo to northern Kenya as well landlocked  Ethiopia  and South
Sudan, Peter Oremo, a project manager at the Kenya Ports
Authority, said on Sept. 29.  The project’s first phase, slated for completion in 2015,
involves constructing three berths, followed by new roads, a
railway, an oil pipeline and refinery, airports and three resort
cities at a total cost of $25 billion by 2030.  Lamu is depicted on the website of the state-run Kenya
Tourist Board as a “peaceful” tropical island whose main town
was settled in the 14th century and that bears the hallmarks of
Portuguese explorers, Turkish traders and Omani Arabs.  ‘Heavily Armed’  Several of the “heavily armed” abductors in a boat
carrying Dedieu were injured in a gun battle with the Kenyan
coastguard. Still, they were able to enter Ras Kamboni, on the
southern tip of Somalia, Kenyan Internal Security Minister
George Saitoti said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 1. Tebbutt
is being held by al-Shabaab in Somalia, the British Broadcasting
Corp. said on Oct. 2, citing the Somali government.  “Every effort is being made to rescue the victim,”
Saitoti said. “The government would like to reassure Kenyans
that adequate security measures have been put in place.”  Kenya is rebuilding its reputation as a safe destination
following violence in 2007 sparked by a disputed presidential
election, in which an estimated 1,500 people died, many at the
hands of attackers brandishing machetes.  The clashes damaged the  tourism industry  and agriculture,
as crops were left unattended, causing economic growth to slow
to 1.7 percent in 2008, from 7.1 percent a year earlier.
Expansion is expected to ease to 5.3 percent this year from 5.6
percent in 2010, according to government estimates.  Pirate Patrols  Foreign navies have in recent years increased patrols in
the  Gulf of Aden  and the  Indian Ocean , the route through which
12 percent of the world’s oil passes, to fight pirates, who
capture ships and hold the crew hostage for ransom.  Attacks on vessels by Somali pirates operating in the
region rose to a record in the first half of this year, with 187
ships attacked and 12 hijacked, according to the United Nations
International Maritime Organization based in  London .  Somalia has been mired in civil war and lacked a
functioning central government for two decades since the
overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, allowing piracy to
flourish amid the lawlessness and widespread poverty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 