-- 
Kinetic to Proceed With Apax After Counterbidder Drops Offer

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-10-03T23:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/kinetic-to-proceed-with-apax-after-counterbidder-drops-offer.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , the San
Antonio-based wound-care company, said it will proceed with a
proposed buyout by  Apax Partners  LLP for $6.5 billion after a
counterbidder dropped its offer.  Kinetic didn’t name the counterbidder in a filing today
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Competitor
ConvaTec Inc. made a higher offer in August, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. Convatec pulled its
offer due to difficulty and growing costs in lining up the
financing, said a person familiar with the matter.  Apax Partners, the London-based private equity firm, and
two Canadian pension funds agreed in July to buy Kinetic for
$68.50 a share and said they would borrow as much as $5 billion
to do so.  Kinetic will host a lender meeting Oct. 5 at 9:30 a.m. in
 New York  to discuss the buyout financing, according to another
person with knowledge of the transaction.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging the deal, which will
include a $2.6 billion  term loan  and a $200 million revolving
line of credit, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  The transaction includes bridge financing consisting of
$1.25 billion of senior secured notes and $900 million of senior
unsecured bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for Kinetic, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment. A message left with
ConvaTec wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Wollman in  San Francisco  at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  