-- 
Koruna Weakens Most in Three Weeks on European Slowdown Concern

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-03T14:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/koruna-weakens-most-in-three-weeks-on-european-slowdown-concern.html
The koruna weakened the most in three
weeks against the euro on mounting concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will curb growth and hurt demand for Czech exports.  The Czech currency slid as much as 1 percent, its biggest
intraday retreat since Sept. 9, and traded 0.8 percent weaker at
24.872 per euro by 4:12 p.m. in Prague.  European stocks fell and the cost of insuring German bonds
rose to a record as the European Union’s finance chiefs meet in
Luxembourg to weigh the risk of a Greek default. Koruna losses
were deepened by automatic stop-loss trades set up by investors
who bet on the currency’s gains, according to David Sykora, head
of foreign-exchange trading at CSOB AS in Prague.  “There is a lack of confidence in the euro, disagreements
inside the European Union, basically the same reasons again and
again,” Sykora said. “The  Czech Republic  is strongly affected
by problems in the EU, the main market for our goods. If demand
declines, especially in  Germany , Czech exporters’ sales will
rapidly drop and this will hit the economy very hard.”  Czech manufacturing rose at the slowest pace in 21 months
in September, according to an index of purchasing managers
released today. The HSBC Czech Republic Manufacturing PMI fell
to 52.3 from 53.4 in August, the bank said in a report. Exports
account for nearly 80 percent of Czech gross domestic product,
with neighboring Germany being the biggest trading partner.  Investors in Czech interest-rate derivatives raised bets
funding costs will drop after minutes from the central bank’s
Sept. 22 policy meeting, published on Sept. 30, said risks to
its economic forecast are tilted “significantly” toward lower
 interest rates  as spending cuts abroad may curb Czech exports.  Interest Rates  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest in nine
months fell to 0.995 percent today from 1.000 percent yesterday
and 1.78 percent three months ago. A close at that level would
be the lowest mid-price since Bloomberg began tracking the data
in 1997. The nine-month FRA traded 17 basis points below the
three-month Prague Interbank Offered Rate, to which it settles.  Policy makers on Sept. 22 left the benchmark rate at a
record-low 0.75 percent, half of the  European Central Bank ’s
main rate, and signaled they may ease policy as the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis worsens the economic outlook and
intensified downside inflation risks.  “We believe the CNB will opt for additional monetary
easing, which is likely to translate in some koruna weakness,”
emerging-market strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a report to today. “We like to
play the upside of the new range between 24.55 and 24.95.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  