-- 
NBA Schedules Negotiation Session That Could Determine Fate of the Season

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/nba-schedules-negotiation-session-that-could-determine-fate-of-the-season.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players union will reconvene today as pressure increases
to reach a labor deal that will allow the regular season to
begin on time in four weeks.  Yesterday’s five-hour session at a Manhattan hotel, the
fifth in seven days between top league officials and  National
Basketball Players Association  leaders, came on the day NBA
veterans would have reported to training camps.  The 96th day of the player lockout may be “very huge,”
union President Derek Fisher of the  Los Angeles Lakers  said
after yesterday’s meetings. It will be difficult to schedule a
complete 82-game regular season if play doesn’t begin as
scheduled on Nov. 1, NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said. The
league already has indefinitely postponed training camps and
canceled 43 preseason games through Oct. 15.  “There will be a lot of pressure on all of us in the
room,” union President  Derek Fisher  of the Los Angeles Lakers
said about today’s session. “We’ll accept our responsibility
and go in and see what we can get worked out.”  Stern and Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver described
yesterday’s meeting as “setting the table” for today’s
session, which will start at noon New York time and include the
full negotiating committees of each group as well as several
other NBA players.  The sides are trying to agree on the economic split of
revenue and the salary cap system under which teams operate.  “Each side has preserved its right to be where it is,
knowing that there’s a heart-to-heart that will hopefully take
place,” Stern told reporters. “We’re trying to set the table
for as many heart-to-hearts on as many issues as we could
possibly have.”  Complete Schedule  Teams collectively lost $300 million on league revenue of
about $4.3 billion last season, Stern has said.  The players received 57 percent of basketball-related
income under the collective bargaining agreement that expired on
July 1, when the NBA locked them out. Fisher and union Executive
Director  Billy Hunter  have acknowledged players will accept a
smaller share of the revenue, while trying to keep intact much
of the structure of the salary cap -- how much teams can pay
players.  ‘100 Other Issues’  Even if these issues are resolved today, there’s much more
to be done before the lockout can end, Silver said.  “Even if we begin to make progress, there are literally
100 other issues that haven’t even been addressed yet,” Silver
said.  The economic split and the cap system come first, however,
and Stern and Silver said neither side had made its last and
best offers.  “If we don’t make our best offers in the next few days, we
are going to be causing damage to the game, to ourselves, and
they are going to be out paychecks,” Silver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  