-- 
Niger Will Allow Libya’s Transitional Government to Question Saadi Qaddafi

-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-03T12:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/niger-will-allow-libya-s-transitional-government-to-question-saadi-qaddafi.html
Niger will allow  Libya ’s transitional
government to interrogate Muammar Qaddafi’s son Saadi, who fled
to the neighboring country after his father lost control of
Tripoli and is wanted on suspicion of “armed intimidation.”  Niger recognizes the National Transitional Council as the
only legitimate authority in Libya and its members can “come
freely” to Niger, Justice Minister Marou Amadou was quoted as
saying today by Voix du Sahel, a state radio station based in
the Nigerien capital, Niamey.  At least 32 Libyans, including three generals, have sought
refuge in Niger since NTC forces stormed the Libyan capital at
the end of August. Saadi Qaddafi was welcomed in Niger for
“humanitarian reasons,” Amadou said.  Interpol  issued an international arrest warrant for the
younger Qaddafi on Sept. 29 at the request of the NTC for
allegedly “misappropriating properties through force and armed
intimidation” when he headed the Libyan Football Federation.
The police group, based in Lyon,  France , said he should be
located, arrested and handed over to Libyan authorities.  The NTC is seeking to round up former officials who served
in Muammar Qaddafi’s government to try them in Libya. Interpol
issued so-called red notices for Qaddafi, another son, Saif al- Islam, and his former military intelligence director, Abdullah
al-Senussi, at the request of the  International Criminal Court 
on Sept. 9 for alleged crimes against humanity.  Travel Ban  The council’s drive to unite the factions that rebelled
against Qaddafi’s 42-year rule and end the seven-month conflict
is being hampered by political infighting and the doggedness of
Qaddafi’s supporters, who have maintained their hold on the last
two strongholds of Bani Walid and Sirte for a month.  Fighting reduced oil output and disrupted power supplies in
the country with  Africa ’s largest crude reserves. Libya is
producing 300,000 barrels a day of oil, Ali Tarhouni, who
oversees the finance and oil ministries, said last week.  Thousands of residents of Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown, fled
during a lull in fighting as medical workers said the
humanitarian situation is worsening,  Al Jazeera  reported today.  Interpol’s decision to issue the red notice “is a clear
political decision” to recognize the NTC’s authority “without
appropriate regard to the current absence of a functioning,
effective and fair system of justice in Libya,” Nick Kaufman,
who said he is acting as Saadi’s lawyer, wrote in an e-mailed
statement today.  Saadi Qaddafi “strenuously denies” the allegations and
“continues to call on all sides to seek a negotiated and
peaceful resolution to the present conflict,” according to the
statement.  The 38-year-old is also subject to a United Nations travel
ban and asset freeze imposed in March because he was a commander
of military units allegedly involved in the repression of
demonstrations during Libya’s uprising.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Djibril Saidou in Niamey via the Accra newsroom at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 