-- 
Nobel Laureate Ralph Steinman Dies 3 Days Before Prize Announced

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/nobel-laureate-ralph-steinman-dies-3-days-before-prize-announced.html
Ralph M. Steinman worked for decades
to prove that cells he discovered in the immune system were
integral to the way the body fended off disease, ultimately
using his research to fight his own pancreatic cancer.  Yesterday, Steinman was awarded the  Nobel Prize  in
medicine, three days after he died.  “Here’s a guy who single-handedly started a whole field
and stuck with it after the rest of us would have given up to
save our careers,” said Ira Mellman, vice president of research
oncology at  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech, and a former colleague
of Steinman’s. “We all feel this is something that should have
been done years ago, given the impact he had.”  Steinman, 68, a Canadian-born cell biologist at Rockefeller
University in New York, was awarded the prize with Jules A. Hoffmann, born in  Luxembourg , and American Bruce A. Beutler, for
illuminating how the body’s immune system recognizes infection
and marshals an attack against it.  Steinman’s discovery of what he named dendritic cells,
which regulate and adapt the immune system’s defense mechanisms,
“laid the foundation for an area of therapy development that’s
just coming into its own, called immunotherapy,” said Louis DeGennaro of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, which helped
fund Steinman’s early work.  The late laureate made his discovery in 1973, and it was
more than a decade before the research gained credence in the
scientific community, said  Michel Nussenzweig , a collaborator
and student of Steinman’s and a professor at Rockefeller.  Audience Scoffed  “I remember a meeting in Paris, an international meeting
where Ralph had me give the talk,” he said. The response from
the audience “was abusive.”  The problem was that other scientists couldn’t immediately
reproduce the research, Nussenzweig said.  “There was a terrific amount of skepticism in the early
days that these dendritic cells were anything other than an
artifactual variant of another cell type,” said  Mellman , who
described Steinman as his mentor in the late 1970s when they
were at Rockefeller. “Because there was this skepticism, Ralph
didn’t advance in a fashion that was anywhere near the rate of
advancement had he simply gone with the flow.”  Steinman’s ability to purify the cells wasn’t replicated
until a decade later, when researchers found ways to isolate
them in larger numbers using newer techniques.  “It took a long time,” Nussenzweig said. “But he just
always knew he was right.”  Cancer Diagnosis  Four years ago, Steinman’s work took a personal turn. He
was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and started a clinical
trial at the university in which he was the only patient, said
Joseph Bonner, a Rockefeller spokesman.  “Ralph’s idea was that you could take a tumor, give it to
dendritic cells, and then have the dendritic cells orchestrate a
response against the tumor,” Nussenzweig said. “He used his
own dendritic cells, which were loaded with tumor antigens, as
part of his therapy.”  Whether it worked, “we’ll never know,” Nussenzweig said.
“But one thing is for sure: he was able to make T-cells
specific for his cancer. It obviously didn’t cure him, but it
may have prolonged his life.”  Steinman “remained ever optimistic until just the last few
weeks,” said  Sarah Schlesinger , an immunologist at Rockefeller
who directed Steinman’s clinical studies. “He had great faith
in science to cure people and make people’s lives better.”  Rockefeller first heard about 5:30 a.m. yesterday that
Steinman had won the prize. Half an hour later, they learned
from his family that Steinman had died.  ‘Dream’ of a Cure  “Ralph worked right up until last week,” Nussenzweig
said. “His dream was to use his discovery to cure cancer and
infectious diseases like HIV and tuberculosis. It’s a dream
that’s pretty close.”  Steinman’s death on Sept. 30 created an unprecedented
conundrum for the Nobel committee, which doesn’t award the 111-
year-old prize posthumously. Hours after their official
announcement of the prizes, the Foundation  confirmed  that
Steinman’s prize will stand despite the timing of his passing.  Earlier this year, Steinman had given a lecture in
 Stockholm , where the Nobel Prizes are awarded, said  Torsten
Wiesel , president emeritus at Rockefeller and a Nobel laureate
himself. The awards ceremony in December “will be another
occasion like this one where people will celebrate him,” Wiesel
said yesterday in a news conference.  Difficult to Reconcile  Steinman’s son, Adam, also spoke at the news conference,
saying “It’s really impossible to describe what our family is
feeling right now. We are devastated to have lost Ralph over the
weekend” and, at the same time, “proud to be receiving this
wonderful honor,” he said.  Mellman, of  Genentech , described the timing as ironic,
given the difficulty Steinman had initially in advancing his
career.  “Everyone is thrilled, but at the same time, everyone has
this great sense of irony,” Mellman said. “I think he was more
than a bit vaguely embarrassed by even thinking about getting a
Nobel Prize, but I think he wanted it as an affirmation for all
his struggles, and I think he wanted it as an affirmation for
the field.”  The other portion of the  prize  is split between Hoffman,
70, and Beutler, 53, for their discovery of proteins that
stimulate the body’s first-line defense against attacking
bacteria and other microorganisms.  Laying a Foundation  The work of this year’s winners has provided the basis for
research into medicines for cancer, inflammatory diseases and
infections, the Nobel committee said on its website.  “These are kind of the master cells in starting immune
response,”  James Allison , an immunologist at Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center, said of Steinman’s discovery in a
telephone interview.  Steinman’s research is the basis for the prostate-cancer
therapy Provenge, developed by Seattle-based  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ,
which last year received regulatory approval as the first
medicine to train the body’s immune system to attack cancer
cells like a virus.  “While he wasn’t directly involved in the founding of
Dendreon Corporation, it was his science which our scientific
founder, Ed Engleman, was working with as he was looking to find
these type of cells,” said David Urdal, Dendreon’s chief
scientific officer. “Ralph is really one of the giants in
immunology.”  Cancer Vaccines  Other drugmakers are also developing cancer vaccines,
including  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , which won approval for the
melanoma treatment ipilimumab in March,  Oncothyreon Inc. (ONTY) ,  Merck
KGaA (MRK)  and  Oxford BioMedica Plc. (OXB)   Steinman is survived by his wife, Claudia, and his three
children, Adam, Alexis and Lesley. His mother, who lives in his
native  Canada , turns 95 this month.  Steinman was born in 1943 in  Montreal , and studied
chemistry and biology at  McGill University  in his hometown
before receiving an MD from  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston  in
1968. He joined Rockefeller in 1970 as a postdoctoral fellow.  His research is now being applied toward the development of
a vaccine based on dendritic cells to prevent HIV, which
Steinman referred to “as our real work,” Schlesinger said. A
vaccine is in testing at Rockefeller University Hospital and has
already enrolled 44 patients, she said.  “We’re very sad that our dad won’t be here to see what
dendritic cells do next,” Adam Steinman said. “We know he’ll
live on through his scientific contributions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  