-- 
Nordic Windpower May Withdraw Bid for Loan Guarantee From U.S.

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-04T08:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/nordic-windpower-may-withdraw-bid-for-uncertain-loan-guarantee.html
Nordic Windpower Ltd. , a manufacturer
of two-blade  wind turbines , said it may drop out of a U.S.
Energy Department loan guarantee program, citing delays in the
process.  The company received a conditional commitment for a $16
million loan guarantee in July 2009 and the agency switched its
application back and forth between two programs since then, said
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Brown . Nordic hasn’t received its
guarantee and may abandon its application.  Brown said the process for completing a loan guarantee had
become more rigorous in the two years since the  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based company’s application was conditionally approved,
even before the bankruptcy of Solyndra LLC Sept. 6 increased
scrutiny of the program. Separately,  MEMC Electronic Materials
Inc. (WFR)  withdrew its application for a guarantee to build a 20-
megawatt solar photovoltaic power plant in  Nevada .  “It’s been ‘congratulations you won,’ then you just have
to do a couple more things, then you have to do a couple more
things,” Brown said in a telephone interview yesterday. “With
a changing process, you don’t know where the goal line is. You
don’t know when you’re done.”  MEMC said its unit developing the SunEdison project decided
to drop out of the guarantee process because it wasn’t able to
complete the paperwork before the program’s Sept. 30 deadline,
Mark Mendenhall, SunEdison’s president for  North America , said
in an interview yesterday.  Nordic’s Effort  Brown said Nordic hired consultants and lawyers to help
with the lengthy evaluation process. Their fees cost the closely
held company a “significant” portion of the loan’s value.  “There’s been so much uncertainty on time, there’s been so
much uncertainty on cost, that we can’t depend on it,” he said.
“We’ve just taken a time out and we’ll evaluate whether we want
to go forward or not.”  Nordic’s guarantee was initially approved under the  Energy
Department ’s 1703 program, Brown said. It was later moved to the
agency’s 1705 program, under which some costs to recipients were
covered by the stimulus act.  Guarantees for the 1705 program had to close by its Sept.
30 deadline. Brown said Nordic was notified by the agency “this
summer” that its application couldn’t be completed in time, and
it would be moved back to 1703, which is still available.  Idaho Plan  Nordic initially planned to use the guarantee to expand a
factory in Pocatello, Idaho. It decided in December to move its
manufacturing operations and headquarters to Kansas City.  Other companies have dropped applications for loan
guarantees. CaliSolar Inc., a closely held solar manufacturer
that was planning a factory in  Ohio , withdrew its application
after deciding to build it in  Mississippi  instead.  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  turned down a guarantee in May after the process became
“too cumbersome and too costly.”  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  dropped its application after deciding
in August to use photovoltaic panels for a California project
instead of solar-thermal systems as it had initially planned.  SolarCity Corp., a developer of residential rooftop solar
systems, said Sept. 24 it would not get a $275 million loan
guarantee before the deadline because of additional requirements
added to the process after Solyndra’s bankruptcy.      The
Energy Department said then it hasn’t changed the process, and
 Damien LaVera , an agency spokesman, said today in an e-mailed
statement that it won’t approve a guarantee until the “rigorous
technical, legal and financial review was completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  