-- 
Norway Strains to Cool Economy as Rebound Proves Too Strong

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T08:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/norway-struggles-to-cool-economy-as-rebound-proves-too-strong.html
Norway  is struggling to cool its oil-
rich economy as accelerating credit growth,  Europe ’s lowest
unemployment rate and a strong currency force the government to
limit crude-revenue spending for a second year.  “There should be no reason that the budget would increase
pressure on Norwegian  interest rates  and the value of the
krone,” Industry Minister Trond Giske said yesterday in an
interview. The “overriding goal” for the spending bill was to
protect the export industry and competitiveness, he said.  Norway is trying to slow its economy and shield exporters
from excessive krone gains while Europe struggles to contain its
debt crisis. The government and central bank need to prevent
what Norway’s financial regulator has warned may develop into a
credit-driven housing bubble. The country’s mainland economy,
which excludes oil and shipping, will grow 2.5 percent in 2012,
more than triple the 0.8 percent pace in neighboring  Sweden ,
according to Nordea Bank AB, the largest Scandinavian lender.  The currency of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
has strengthened 17 percent against the dollar and 24 percent to
the euro since the global economic crisis peaked at the end of
2008, spurring imports and hurting exports.  Today, the krone weakened 0.4 percent to 7.8332 per euro as
of 10:13 a.m. in Oslo. The currency fell 0.5 percent to 5.9535
against dollar.  The risk of overheating requires budget cuts that will
probably spark “protest” and “loud demands,” Prime Minister
Jens Stoltenberg warned in a speech last week at a conference
organized by his  Labor Party .  The government will present the 2012 budget on Oct. 6.
Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen has pledged to comply with
Norway’s fiscal rule, which caps the use of oil and gas revenue
to 4 percent of the nation’s $524 billion sovereign-wealth fund.  ‘Off Track’  The  International Monetary Fund  warned in April that Norway
must ensure an oil-price surge doesn’t throw the economy “off
track.” Benchmark European Brent crude oil traded at $100.63 a
barrel as of 10:06 a.m. today in  London , up 6 percent this year.
While it has more than doubled in price since the end of 2008,
concerns over slowing global growth has pushed the price of the
benchmark down by 20 percent since a peak in April.  Norway boasts the widest budget surplus of any AAA rated
country in the world, even as Europe’s debt crisis shows signs
of deepening. The surplus was equivalent to 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product last year and will widen to 12.5 percent
this year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates.  Difficult Budget  “It has never been so difficult to make a budget as it is
right now,” Giske said yesterday in Oslo. “We’ve had the
approach that it’s going to be a tight budget and that we have
the capacity and possibility to adjust if the crisis
escalates.”  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, may have to
tap its reserves to fund spending programs after  oil prices 
declined. The central bank’s total assets fell 0.3 percent to
1.93 trillion riyals ($515 billion) in August from July,
according to data from the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency . It was
the first monthly decline since February.  In Norway, the government in 2009 and 2010 used its oil and
gas income to shield the economy from the worst of Europe’s
economic turmoil, while the central bank has kept interest rates
near crisis lows, underpinning consumer demand. Household debt
burdens will reach 204 percent of disposable incomes next year,
the highest since at least 1988, the central bank estimates.
 House prices  rose an annual 9.4 percent in August, according to
Norway’s Real Estate Brokers Association.  Krone Measures?  The pace of economic growth has fanned krone gains and
prompted policy makers to signal they will act to prevent
further appreciation. The krone rose more than any other major
currency against the franc on Sept. 6, surging 10.2 percent,
after the  Swiss National Bank ’s pledge to cap currency gains
forced investors to search for other havens.  Two days later, Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen
delivered his strongest signal to date that he won’t tolerate
such appreciation. Olsen’s assurance to markets that “monetary
policy measures will be taken” to weaken the krone have since
sent the currency down 3.3 percent versus the euro. The bank has
shelved planned interest rate increases.  Stoltenberg, in his speech last week, said a strong krone
will “jeopardize industrial jobs.”  Fiscal Restraint  Fiscal restraint may not be enough to cool  consumer
spending  and the economy. House price gains have accelerated
this year even as the government lowered the so-called
structural non-oil deficit, an adjusted measure of oil revenue
spending, to 3.7 percent of the fund this year, down from 4.3
percent in 2010 and 4.5 percent in 2009.  Even if Norway sticks to the rule, the amount that 4
percent represents in absolute terms is growing as the oil fund
increases in size. The government estimated in this year’s
revised budget that the available oil money under the fiscal
rule will grow to 241 billion kroner ($41 billion) by 2020,
double this year’s 123 billion kroner.  “When we present our budget, it will be a tough budget,”
Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said last week in an
interview in Reykjavik. “It’s time now for Norway to cool the
economy and not heat it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 Mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  