-- 
One in 53 West Virginia Drivers to Hit a Deer, State Farm Says

-- B y   M a r y e l l e n   T i g h e
-- 
2011-10-03T15:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/not-easy-to-be-a-deer-in-west-virginia-as-one-in-53-drivers-will-hit-them.html
One in 53 drivers in  West Virginia 
will probably hit a deer in the next 12 months as motorists
navigate roads that wind through forests, according to State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.  The state had the highest rate of such collisions in the 12
months ended June 30, according to a statement today from
Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm, the largest U.S. auto
insurer. West Virginia was the most crash-prone state for the
fifth straight year, and the latest rate compares with 1 in 42
in last year’s report, according to the company.  “Any time you put a transportation system that allows for
high rates of speed going through deer areas, you’re going to
have those problems,” Paul Johansen, assistant chief in charge
of game management for the West Virginia  Division of Natural
Resources , said in an interview before the data were released.  The collisions cost an average of $3,171 in property damage
nationwide, an increase of about 2.2 percent from a year
earlier, State Farm said. The estimated number of U.S.
collisions in the 12-month period dropped 7 percent to 1.09
million. October through December is the peak period for the
crashes, said Paul Curtis, who teaches wildlife sciences and
behavior at  Cornell University  in New York.  The change in daylight savings time puts morning and
evening rush hours at dawn and dusk, when deer are most active,
he said. Suburban sprawl, in which more homes are built in deer
habitats, contributes to the problem, partly because hunting may
be prohibited near houses, he said before the latest report.  ‘Population Control’  “More areas become un-huntable,” Curtis said. “Deer
population increases when they’re not hunted, and vehicles
become the primary method of population control.”  Iowa is the second-most common state for deer collisions,
with 1 in 77 drivers likely to crash, followed by  South Dakota 
with 1 in 81. Hawaii is the state where drivers are least likely
to strike deer, with 1-in-6,267 odds.  New York drivers have a 1-in-157 chance of hitting a deer.
New Jersey motorists have a probability of 1 in 192, and
 Connecticut  has a frequency of 1 in 415, State Farm said. The
insurer’s calculations are based on claims data and driver
registration counts from the  Federal Highway Administration .  Deer collisions generate about a third of Allen
Mansberger’s business at Morgantown, West Virginia-based Allen’s
Auto Body. Drivers usually pay $3,000 to $4,000 after an
accident with a deer, he said, and the cost can be higher,
depending on the car and the intensity of the collision.  “I’ve got an ‘09 Lincoln in there that’s going to be like
$10,000,” Mansberger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maryellen Tighe in  New York  at 
 Mtighe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  