-- 
Novozymes Enzymes to Make Cheap Cane Ethanol in Brazil

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-10-04T15:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/novozymes-to-produce-cheap-ethanol-in-brazil-from-cane-waste.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to say Novozymes
won’t build a factory in story published Oct. 3.)  Novozymes A/S, the world’s biggest
maker of industrial enzymes, said its biotechnology will be able
to produce ethanol from sugar-cane waste in  Brazil  cheaper than
fuel made from the plant’s juice.  Novozymes’s enzymes will be used to produce ethanol for
1.20 reais (64 cents) a liter in 2013, about 12 percent less
than current prices, said the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based enzyme
company’s global marketing director Poul Ruben Andersen.  Bagasse, as the pulpy waste material is called, is often
burned to produce power, and may also become a significant
source of renewable fuel, said Salim Morsy, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s New York office.  “If all of Brazil’s surplus bagasse was processed into
next-generation ethanol, the country would be able to produce an
additional 4 billion liters (1.06 billion gallons) of fuel in
2013,” Morsy said today in a telephone interview.  Novozymes plans to showcase its enzymes at a demonstration
plant that will be “bolted on” to a mill in 2013, he said. The
facility will be built and owned by a major ethanol producer and
generate more than 13 million liters of fuel a year, Andersen
said in a telephone interview Sept. 30.  “Cellulosic ethanol is no longer five years out,” he
said. “Production costs could be improved further in time,” as
Novozymes’s biotechnology becomes cheaper, he said.  The enzymes the company uses for ethanol have dropped 76
percent in cost in the past three years, to 24 centavos for
every liter of fuel produced, he said.  Double Production  Ethanol production in Brazil may double if the mills
convert bagasse into fuel, and the mills would still have enough
of the waste material left to burn to power their facilities, he
said.  Novozymes has formed partnerships with the Brazilian
research institute Centro de Tecnologia Canavieira, the state-
controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and equipment
provider Dedini SA Industrias De Base to develop its waste-to
fuel technology, he said.  Anhydrous ethanol, which is blended with gasoline, sold for
1.37 reais a liter last week, according to the Piracicaba-based
research institute Centro de Estudos Avancados em Economia
Aplicada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  