-- 
Dominion’s North Anna Reactors to Stay Shut for Inspections

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-03T20:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/nrc-to-inspect-dominion-s-north-anna-power-plant-starting-oct-5.html
Reactors at Dominion Resources Inc.’s
North Anna power plant, idled by a Virginia earthquake, will
remain shut while the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  conducts
more than a week of inspections, the agency said.  The NRC plans to examine through Oct. 14 the reactors’
readiness to resume operations, the agency said today in a
document distributed at a meeting with Dominion officials at the
complex, about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the epicenter of an
Aug. 23 temblor. Inspections will begin Oct. 5.  “The plant won’t be allowed to start up unless we believe
that it’s safe to do so,” Eric Leeds, director of the NRC’s
Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, said at the meeting.  North Anna’s twin reactors have been shut since the 5.8-
magnitude quake, which exceeded the plant’s design limits.
Agency officials said inspections immediately after the quake
didn’t find significant damage, echoing an assessment by
Richmond, Virginia-based Dominion.  Dominion plans to have North Anna’s Unit 1 prepared to
restart “tomorrow or the next day,” said David Heacock,
president of Dominion Nuclear. Unit 2 will be refueled and ready
by the end of this month, he said. The reactors can’t begin
supplying power again until Dominion gains NRC approval.  The North Anna reactors can generate enough electricity for
450,000 homes, according to Dominion’s website.  Reduced Impact  Since the earthquake, Dominion has been replacing the loss
of North Anna’s capacity by using its other generators or buying
power from the electric grid. The utility is able to buy
electricity relatively cheaply because of cooler fall
temperatures, reducing the impact on consumer prices, Heacock
said. Unit 2 was scheduled to close for refueling, he said.  “This time of year is the perfect time of year to have an
outage” at the facility, Heacock said.  NRC inspectors at North Anna observed “anomalies” on some
safety-related equipment, “raising questions about instrument
qualification,” the agency’s document said. These included
“fluctuations in readings” in the steam generator, Greg
Kolcum, the commission’s senior resident inspector at  North
Anna , said.  Equipment problems didn’t pose a danger to the public
during the quake, Kolcum said.  Safety Systems  The NRC has been assessing the plant in a “reactive”
inspection, according to Kolcum, who was in the facility’s
control room during the earthquake.  Starting Oct. 5, the agency will check all safety systems,
including electric wiring, piping, valves, pumps and cooling
components to ensure that the plant can safely generate power,
he said.  Seismic monitors “may not have been located in the best
places to accurately determine” whether ground shaking exceeded
the plant’s design, the NRC document said. Monitors weren’t
installed in a storage area for steel containers containing
radioactive waste, the NRC said. The casks, which weigh about
115 tons each, shifted as much as 4.5 inches during the quake.  The power-plant staff responded to the earthquake in a
“manner that protected public health and safety,” according to
the NRC’s document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  