-- 
Syndicated Loans Fall to Six-Month Low in Asia as European Banks Retreat

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 
2011-10-03T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/loans-fall-to-six-month-low-in-asia-as-european-banks-retreat.html
Asian loans slumped to the lowest
level in two quarters as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis pushed
up banks’ funding costs and lenders under pressure in home
markets retreated.  Syndicated loans in the Asia-Pacific region outside of
 Japan  fell to $104.7 billion in the third quarter, the least
since the three months ended March 31, when they totaled $96.8
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lending
climbed 12 percent from the same period a year ago, when it
totaled $93.2 billion. European banks lost ground and Credit
Agricole CIB dropped out of the top 20 arrangers for the first
time since 2002, the data show.  “There’ll be a decline in participation from a number of
banks, including some European lenders, at least for the next
quarter until things start getting better and since many also
have met their loan growth targets for the year,” Boey Yin
Chong, DBS Bank Ltd.’s managing director of syndicated finance,
said in a Sept. 30 phone interview in  Singapore . “Everyone is
watching the cost of U.S. dollars and U.S. dollar liquidity.’  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. froze credit markets, borrowing costs for dollars are
climbing as concern rises that Europe’s debt crisis will spread.
The three-month  London  interbank offered rate for dollars, or
Libor, while still close to 25-year lows, rose to a 13-month
high of 0.37433 percent on Sept. 30, data from the British
Bankers Association on the most widely used measure of bank
lending costs show. Investors seeking safer assets made 30-year
Treasuries the best-performing  U.S. government debt  last month,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Asian, Taiwanese Banks  “The syndicated loan market is mainly being supported by
Asian and Taiwanese banks, but everyone is facing higher funding
costs,” said Philip Cracknell, the deputy group head of capital
markets at Standard Chartered Plc, the eighth-ranked lender in
the third quarter. Some European banks may find it difficult to
help arrange loans in  Asia , “while in general syndication,
banks are looking for higher returns,” he said in a Sept. 29
phone interview from  Hong Kong .  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , a unit of the Philippines’ biggest-listed
company, San Miguel Corp., reduced a loan to $480 million from
$500 million after Credit Agricole decided not to participate,
three people familiar with the matter said on Sept. 27. The oil
refiner is offering to pay interest of 293 basis points more
than Libor, including fees. The facility is expected to be
signed this month with nine banks instead of 10, the people said.  Active Banks  “It’s an opportunity for Asian banks to play a bigger
role,” Phil Lipton, head of syndicated finance for Asia-Pacific
debt-capital markets at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said in a Sept. 30
phone interview from Hong Kong. “The challenge is that we also
need as many active banks as possible to provide liquidity, and
less banks will make that more difficult.”  HSBC, based in London, generates two-thirds of its revenue
outside  Europe , Bloomberg data show. It fell to sixth in the
rankings last quarter, from fourth the same period a year ago.  The biggest arranger since June 30 is Mumbai-based  State
Bank  of  India , the same as last year. Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., based in  Melbourne , climbed to second place
from third and National Australia Bank Ltd. jumped to third from
ninth the same quarter a year ago. India’s IDBI Bank Ltd. fell
to 10th from second and Land Bank of Taiwan rose to 19th from
22nd.  Some European banks are losing market share amid rising
concern  Greece  will default. Greece’s government has pledged to
fire workers as part of a 6.6 billion-euro ($8.8 billion)
austerity package designed to help secure a second European
Union-led bailout.  Greek Creditors  French financial firms top the list of Greek creditors with
$56.7 billion in overall exposure to private and public debt.
Credit-default swaps insuring Credit Agricole’s debt against
default climbed 122.5 basis points last quarter to 254.73, the
biggest three-month increase in at least six years, prices from
data provider CMA show. Swaps on  BNP Paribas (BNP)  rose 143.5 basis
points, also the biggest quarterly advance since 2005.  BNP ranked as the No. 20 arranger of loans in the Asia-
Pacific region this year, from 16th in 2010 and 2009 and seventh
in 2008, the data show. Hong Kong-based BNP spokeswoman
Christina Chan didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment
on the decline.  Credit Agricole dropped to No. 21 in the third quarter from
17 last year.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which sold
assets in Asia after receiving the biggest bailout in banking
history from the British government during the financial crisis,
fell to No. 25 last quarter from 19.  RBS Move  Edinburgh-based RBS moved its head of loan market
origination for U.K. clients, Peter Ellemann, to Hong Kong from
London in August to increase its share of the Asian market. The
role is a new one for the bank in the region.  “Of the larger loan market participants, French banks
appear to be under the most pressure due to their exposure to
Greece,” Ellemann said in a phone interview on Sept. 30. “U.S.
money market funds have apparently significantly reduced their
lending to these institutions. RBS isn’t immune, but we continue
to lead and arrange deals with our clients.”  Local banks with deposit bases in their home currency are
less vulnerable, Ellemann said. “There are certain local-
 currency markets  where liquidity is phenomenally strong, such as
the Thai baht and Singapore dollar, and any foreign bank without
a meaningful local-currency retail deposit base, be they
European or American, simply can’t compete,” he said.  Asian Growth  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
2011 global economic growth to 4 percent from 4.3 percent on
Sept. 20. Developing Asia will grow 8.2 percent this year and 8
percent in 2012, the IMF estimates.  As economies deteriorate and banks become more reluctant to
lend, the cost of loans is rising. When  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) 
borrowed $625 million for five years last month it agreed to pay
a margin of 300 basis points more than Libor, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The commodities supplier partly owned by
Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte pays a margin of 275 basis
points for a $350 million loan in August 2010, which matures in
2013, the data show.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , which mines iron ore and develops
properties in  China , agreed to pay a margin of 153 basis points
more than the Hong Kong interbank offered rate when it borrowed
HK$4.5 billion ($577 million) in August in a loan that matures
in August 2016. That compares with a margin of 120 basis points
for a HK$5.73 billion five-year loan in September 2010.  “There’s been a lot of talk over the last few months about
the rising cost of funds, but now we’re beginning to really see
the effects of it,” HSBC’s Lipton said. “In the past, some
banks had been able to avoid passing on rising funding costs,
but now there’s pressure to increase returns.”  Looser Credit Advantage  Loan volumes in Asia will remain muted in the fourth
quarter because borrowers took advantage of looser credit
earlier this year, according to Atul Sodhi, the Asia-Pacific
head of loan syndication at Credit Agricole.  “The first half saw very good liquidity and companies
around the region took that as an opportunity to take care of a
lot of their financing needs,” Sodhi said. “Today, when the
market is a little tighter and liquidity is coming at a higher
price, there’s no compelling need for borrowers to tap the
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  