-- 
Obama Submits Three Free-Trade Accords to U.S. Congress for Ratification

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-03T21:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/obama-submits-three-trade-agreements-to-hill.html
President  Barack Obama  sent pending
free-trade agreements with South Korea,  Colombia  and  Panama  to
Congress after lawmakers created a path for renewing benefits
for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition.  The trade accords reached under President  George W. Bush 
and revised by Obama had been stymied in a stalemate with  House
Republicans  over the aid, called Trade Adjustment Assistance.  “We’ve worked hard to strengthen these agreements to get
the best possible deal for American workers and businesses,”
Obama said today in a statement. “I call on Congress to pass
them without delay, along with the bipartisan agreement on Trade
Adjustment Assistance that will help workers whose jobs have
been affected by global competition.”  The Senate voted to extend the aid on Sept. 22, and House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he would consider
the worker assistance in tandem with the trade deals after the
Obama administration sent up the measures. The House Rules
Committee is meeting today to set guidelines for a vote on the
program. Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who
heads the Ways and Means Committee, said he plans to hold a
hearing Oct. 5 to prepare the bills for debate.  Boehner welcomed Obama’s submission of the trade accords.  “We have overcome a crucial hurdle to helping put
Americans back to work,” Boehner said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Now that all three agreements have been
transmitted, they will be a top priority for the House.”  Exports Boosted  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the trade agreements will
prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs. The AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions, said they will lead to a
decline in U.S. manufacturing as jobs move overseas. Labor
leaders said they plan to protest the trade agreements at a
rally outside the Capitol tomorrow.  Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat who heads the
House Trade Working Group, a coalition made up mostly of
Democrats who question the value of free-trade accords, plans to
build “the broadest coalition possible” to oppose the three
agreements, Ed Gilman, a spokesman, said in an e-mail last
month.  Fruits, Nuts  The  South Korea  agreement would remove duties on almost
two-thirds of U.S. farm exports immediately, benefiting
producers of meat, dairy, vegetables, and fruits and nuts. It
would also phase out tariffs on more than 95 percent of
industrial and consumer exports within five years, increasing
 market access  for chemical, automobile, medical device and drug
companies. Banks and communications companies would gain new
opportunities through reductions in regulatory barriers.  “America is finally getting back in the game,”  Tom Donohue , chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said in a statement. “The Chamber will pull out all
of the stops to get the votes in Congress, where the agreements
already enjoy bipartisan support.”  The worker aid compromise that the House will consider was
reached by Camp and Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat. It
would extend benefits, including those for service workers that
expired in February, through 2013 while cutting the weeks of
extended  unemployment insurance  that participants can receive to
130 from 156, and reducing the health-care tax credit for people
enrolled in the program. The bill would also eliminate a program
that helps communities affected by trade.  “We must take every opportunity to get America back to
work, and Congress should pass these agreements without delay,”
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said in a statement. “Taken
together, the pending trade agreements and Trade Adjustment
Assistance advance a balanced trade agenda that opens new
markets for our exporters and new opportunities for America’s
working families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  