-- 
Obama Says He Is Underdog in 2012 Presidential Election

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-03T21:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/obama-says-he-is-underdog-in-2012-presidential-election-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  “absolutely”
considers himself to be the underdog in the 2012 presidential
campaign “given the economy” and said voters aren’t doing
better economically than they were four years ago.  “They’re not better off” than “before the financial
crisis, before this extraordinary recession that we’re going
through,” Obama said in an interview with ABC News and Yahoo.  “We’ve been able to make steady progress to stabilize the
economy, but the  unemployment rate  is still way too high,”
Obama said, pushing the jobs plan he sent to Congress last month
as a way “to put people back to work.”  Asked whether he is an underdog for re-election, Obama said
“absolutely.”  “I don’t mind -- I’m used to being an underdog,” he said.
“At the end of the day, though, what people are going to say
is, ‘who’s got a vision for the future?’”  A 55 percent majority expects Obama to be a one-term
president, according to a new ABC News/Washington Post poll, the
television network said today. Just 37 percent said they expect
Obama to win re-election next year, according to the survey.  In the interview, Obama said “it isn’t for a lack of
effort” that some of his proposals have failed to win approval
in Congress. “I don’t think that the American people would
dispute that at every step of the way I’ve done everything I can
to get the  Republican Party  to work with me.”  Trade Agreements  In the interview, which took place before he sent the  South
Korea , Colombia and Panama free-trade agreements to Congress,
Obama predicted the legislation would pass. He said that while
the legislation will “add jobs” it is only one of the measures
that must be implemented to spur job growth.  “I don’t mind Kias and Hyundais sold here as long as
Chryslers and Fords are being sold in  Korea  as well,” he said.
“I’m glad that’s an area of bipartisan agreement, but it’s not
enough by itself.”  The trade accords reached under President  George W. Bush 
and revised by Obama had been stalled in a stalemate with  House
Republicans  over renewing benefits for workers who lose their
jobs to foreign competition, called Trade Adjustment Assistance.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  ‘Good Business’  Asked about  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s plan to charge a $5
monthly charge for some debit-card users, Obama said: “My hope
is that you’re going to see a bunch of the banks who say to
themselves, you know what, this is actually not good business
practice.”  Obama said he doesn’t regret a federal loan guarantee to
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-panel maker under
investigation. “Hindsight is always 20/20,” Obama said. The
decision went through the “regular review process, and people
felt like this was a good bet.”  The company, based in Fremont,  California , faces a probe by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Republicans in Congress
over a $535 million federal loan guarantee it used to build a
$733 million factory. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy last month
with a plan to either sell the eight-month-old factory or
liquidate the specialized equipment used to manufacture its
solar panels.  ‘Have a Shot’  “What we always understood that not every single business
is going to succeed in clean energy, but if we want to compete
with  China , which is pouring hundreds of billions of dollars
into this space, if we want to compete with other countries that
are heavily subsidizing the industries of the future, we’ve got
to make sure that our guys here in the United States of America
at least have a shot,” he said.  Obama dismissed criticism from New Jersey Republican
Governor  Chris Christie , who last week called the president a
“bystander in the Oval Office.”  “If the guy’s thinking about running for president, he’s
going to say a lot of stuff, and I think in Republican primaries
saying nasty stuff about me probably polls pretty well,” Obama
said.  Asked how he gets his news, Obama said he sometimes uses an
iPad given to him by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  founder  Steve Jobs , who gave it
to him “a little bit early.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  