-- 
Ohio State University Suspends Three Players for Being Overpaid for Jobs

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-10-03T21:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ohio-state-university-suspends-three-players-for-being-overpaid-for-jobs.html
Ohio State University  suspended
tailback Daniel Herron, receiver DeVier Posey and offensive
lineman Marcus Hall for this weekend’s game at the University of
 Nebraska  after an investigation showed they were overpaid at
their summer jobs.  Two other players the school says were overpaid are
defensive end Melvin Fellows, who is out with a medical
hardship, and linebacker Etienne Sabino, who was reinstated
after he gave what he was overpaid to charity.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  and the
university determined the players were overpaid by the following
amounts: Posey $728; Fellows and Herron $293 each; Hall $233,
and Sabino $60.  “I am held accountable,” Ohio State Athletic Director
Gene Smith said today at a news conference. “That’s why I am
sitting here today. We have to constantly work with our student
athletes to educate them about accountability.”  Ohio State said the players were unaware they were being
overpaid. They didn’t keep time cards and were allowed to work
times that were convenient to them.  Two of the players, Herron and Posey, earlier received
five-game bans for their part in a separate scandal, in which
players traded signed memorabilia for tattoos. Those violations
resulted in the resignation of former coach  Jim Tressel  in May.  Other players involved in the memorabilia-for-tattoos
violation and given five-game suspensions were left tackle Mike
Adams, defensive end Solomon Thomas and former quarterback
Terrelle Pryor, who now plays for the  National Football League ’s
Oakland Raiders.  “We don’t have a systemic problem,” Smith said. “These
were individual decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  