-- 
Moksha8 Finds New Life for Old Drugs in Latin America

-- B y   A d a m   B l u e s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/moksha8-finds-new-life-for-old-drugs-in-latin-america.html
In late 2008, a startup called  Moksha8  convinced  Pfizer (PFE)  to do an
unusual deal in  Brazil . In exchange for a cut of sales, Moksha8 would promote a decades-old
antibiotic called Vibramycin, along with several other brands in Pfizer’s portfolio of older drugs
no longer protected by patents. Forecasting declining sales against competition from lower-
priced generics, the pharmaceutical giant had stopped investing in Vibramycin’s sales and
marketing.  Capitalizing on the willingness of newly affluent Brazilians to spend on brand-name drugs,
Moksha8 marketed aggressively to doctors in the country’s major cities, increasing 2009 and
2010 sales for Vibramycin by roughly 40 percent above Pfizer’s dour projections. Says Victor
Mezei, Pfizer’s country manager for Brazil: “We consider this a positive partnership.”  Simba Gill, formerly chief executive officer of  Redwood City , Calif., biotech company
Maxygen, started Moksha8 in late 2006. His bet: Pharmaceutical companies, which cut nearly
300,000 jobs from 2000 to 2010, could use extra feet on the ground in challenging but potentially
lucrative emerging markets. A British citizen who was born in  Tanzania  to East Indian parents
and who owns homes in  San Francisco ,  Hong Kong ,  Rio de Janeiro , Delhi, and  United Arab
Emirates , Gill gave a lot of thought to the company’s name. Moksha is a Sanskrit word that
means liberation from suffering; the numeral 8 is a nod to the Buddhist eightfold path.  In Brazil and Mexico -- Latin America’s biggest economies and pharmaceutical markets -- Gill
saw a sweet spot: Growing middle classes and rising incomes account for 75 percent of the $30
billion Latin American pharmaceutical market. What’s more, he says, consumers in both
countries pay out-of-pocket for pharmacy purchases, so private insurers and government payers
wield little influence over an individual’s decision to pay more for name-brand medicines.  While the U.S. remains the world’s largest market for prescription medicines, with $300 billion
in 2009 sales, it is declining in importance. Having accounted for 41 percent of all global drug
spending in 2005, the U.S. share will drop to just 31 percent in 2015, according to IMS, a
supplier of pharmaceutical sales data. IMS forecasts similar weakening for the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany ,  Italy , and  Spain . With annual sales growth of 14 percent to 17 percent, it says,
emerging markets will account for 28 percent of worldwide drug spending in 2015. “It’s not too
large an intellectual leap to see that this is the moment for emerging markets to be the key
growth driver in our industry,” says Gill.  “Aggressive Cash Compensation”  Unlike a distributor that gets a fee for service, the 220-employee company gets paid according to
how much it improves regional sales for its partners. That means managing a supply chain that is
more complicated -- and sometimes more corrupt -- than in more developed countries. Moksha8
must sell its products to wholesalers and distributors that in turn, sell to pharmacies. With offices
in Philadelphia,  Mexico  City, and São Paulo, Gill recruits experienced hands and younger locals
from outside the industry. They are motivated by what Gill calls “aggressive cash
compensation;” only about a third of employees’ total pay is guaranteed salary, with the rest
derived from incentives.  Moksha8 complements the in-house sales forces of Big Pharma partners, which tend to focus on
higher-priced new products. For smaller drugmakers, Moksha8 may constitute their overseas
presence. When the H1N1 swine flu epidemic broke out in Mexico in 2009, for example,
Moksha8 executives got meetings with health officials and successfully advocated for swift
approval to import an experimental treatment called Peramivir, produced by  BioCryst
Pharmaceuticals (BCRX)  in Birmingham, Ala. “There’s no way a company like us in the U.S.,
with no feet on the street and no experience dealing with local governments, could have got that
done,” says BioCryst President and CEO Jon Stonehouse.  Despite representing just three large partners -- Pfizer,  Roche (ROG) , and Watson
 Pharmaceuticals (WPI)  -- in two countries, Gill says Moksha8 should generate $160 million in
sales in 2011, noting that “four to five years from now, we should be at half a billion in sales,
with $100 million to $150 million in profit.” However, Marcello  Albuquerque , IMS’s business
director for  Latin America , warns that continuing global economic turmoil could crimp growth.
“Economic growth and income distribution could change if Latin America is hit by the global
crisis at a level that would put the brakes on,” he says. “That’s what happened in the ’70s.”  Nonetheless, Gill plans to double down in the region, moving into Chile and  Colombia  in the
next couple of years. He will draw on close to $150 million in investments from TPG Capital,
Montreux Equity Partners, Watson, and Brazilian conglomerate Votarantim. He is also bullish on
opportunities in North Africa and the  Middle East . “We like the region because it’s
complicated,” Gill says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Adam Bluestein at  adambluestein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  