-- 
Tokyo Electron Misses Order Estimate on Chip Supply Glut

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-10-03T07:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/tokyo-electron-misses-estimate-for-machine-orders-on-excess-chip-supply.html
Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) ’s second-quarter
orders fell more than the 20 percent drop estimated by the
Japanese semiconductor-equipment maker because of excess chip
inventories, Chairman Tetsuro Higashi said.  Orders in the three months ended Sept. 30 were “a bit
lower than planned,” Higashi said in an interview today in
Kyoto. Companies boosted chip inventories in the April-June
period, anticipating that  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake would
disrupt production, and that reduced orders the following
quarter, he said.  Tokyo Electron fell to the lowest level in a month in Tokyo
trading. The order slump may continue at the world’s second-
largest semiconductor-equipment maker as chipmakers cut
worldwide capital-equipment investment an estimated 19 percent
next year, according to a Sept. 30 report by research company
Gartner Inc. Companies including  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and
 Intersil Corp. (ISIL)  have cut order forecasts in the past month,
citing weak demand.  “Demand for chips may start to rise around April,”
Higashi said. He predicted demand will rise by as much as 5
percent next year as new personal computer models including
those using Intel Corp. chips go on sale.  Tokyo Electron shares fell 3.1 percent to 3,450 yen at the
3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, extending their
decline this year to 33 percent, compared with a 16 percent drop
in Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Industry spending on chip production capacity will total
$35.2 billion next year, compared with an estimated $43.5
billion in 2011, as slowing economic growth causes sales to drop,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner said.  The decline is steeper than a 2.6 percent reduction Gartner
predicted in June. Investment cutbacks have already started and
will last until mid-2012, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  