-- 
Homes in Foreclosure Average 611 Days of Late Mortgage Payments in U.S.

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-03T21:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/homes-facing-foreclosure-surge-to-record-611-days-in-late-loan-payments.html
U.S. homeowners facing foreclosure
were a record 611 days late paying their mortgages on average as
legal disputes delayed bank repossessions,  Lender Processing
Services Inc. (LPS)  said today.  That was up from an average 599 days in July and 478 days
in August 2010 for homes that had received a notice of
foreclosure and weren’t sold or repossessed by banks, according
to the Jacksonville, Florida-based real estate data company.  “You’ve got this bunching up in the later stages of the
process,” Herb Blecher, senior vice president for analytics at
Lender Processing Services, said in a telephone interview. “The
bottlenecks are still there.”  The time to resolve mortgage delinquencies has grown from a
year ago, when banks delayed filings after claims of “robo-
signing,” or pushing through documents that weren’t verified,
spurred investigations by  attorneys general  in all 50 states.  Foreclosures take longest in so-called judicial states,
which require court approval to seize properties, led by  New
York , where the average home was in the process for 767 days. It
was followed by  Florida  with 757 days,  New Jersey  with 708,
Hawaii with 681 and  Washington , D.C., with 676, Lender
Procession said. The shortest averages were in Wyoming at 398
days, Nebraska at 407, Alaska at 411, Idaho at 416 and Arizona
at 418.  Starts Outnumber Sales  The 24 judicial states, which had 2.1 million homes with
mortgages at least 90 days late, accounted for about 25 percent
of foreclosure sales, Blecher said. Non-judicial states had 1.9
million seriously delinquent homes. Foreclosure starts
outnumbered foreclosure sales by a factor of three to one
nationwide, with higher ratios in judicial-foreclosure states.  “All else being equal, non-judicial states are going to be
poised for a recovery faster than judicial states,” he said.  While the foreclosure timeline has grown, the total number
U.S. of homes with delinquent mortgages declined to 6.4 million
in August from 6.98 million a year earlier and a peak of 8.12
million in January 2010, Lender Processing said.  There were 247,957 foreclosure starts in August, up 20
percent from July and down 12 percent from a year earlier,
before the “robo-signing” dispute began, the company said.  Negotiations to settle the foreclosure disputes with the
five largest U.S. banks, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have faced infighting among attorneys
general. California Attorney General Kamala Harris, whose state
has the second-highest U.S. foreclosure rate, rejected a
proposed deal to resolve the disputes, calling the agreement
“inadequate,” according to a Sept. 30 letter she sent to the
U.S. Justice Department and the Iowa attorney general, who is
leading talks for the states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  