-- 
Hong Kong Banks Face Higher Credit Risks in Midterm, KPMG Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-03T03:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/hong-kong-banks-face-higher-credit-risks-in-midterm-kpmg-says.html
Hong Kong  banks’ credit quality may
be at risk over the medium term because of short supply of the
local currency caused by strong loan growth last year and rising
yuan demand, KPMG LLP said.  The city’s banks expanded their gross loan portfolio by 29
percent last year, while total customer deposits only grew 7.5
percent, boosting their loan-to-deposit ratio to 62 percent from
52 percent, KPMG said in a report today. The report follows a
Hong Kong Monetary Authority request in April that local lenders
reassess credit growth and funding plans.  “While Hong Kong’s banking sector has remained highly
profitable over the past year, executives recognize that there
are some dark clouds on the horizon,” Martin Wardle, head of
financial services at  KPMG  in Hong Kong, wrote in the report.
“Liquidity concerns are intensifying, driven by local cross-
border dynamics, as well as global economic sentiment.”  Hong Kong dollar liquidity is becoming a concern for local
banks as growth in local-currency deposits lags behind loans as
customers favor the appreciating renminbi, Wardle said. The
Chinese currency has gained about 3.5 percent against the dollar
this year, compared with the Hong Kong dollar’s 0.2 percent slip.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong jumped almost ninefold to 609
billion yuan ($95.7 billion) at the end of August from about 63
billion yuan at the end of 2009, according to data from the
city’s de-facto central bank.  “While expectations of currency appreciation remain,
transfers of renminbi will continue to erode some of the
liquidity in Hong Kong’s banking system,” Wardle said.  The city’s banking system is still “healthy” overall, as
impaired loans at Hong Kong banks accounted for less than 2
percent of their total lending last year, according to KPMG. The
banks were well capitalized with a consolidated capital adequacy
ratio of almost 16 percent, the report said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ’s Hong Kong unit, the most profitable
bank in the city last year, reported a 0.9 percent bad-loan
ratio last year.  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the lender posting last
year’s highest return on equity among its Hong Kong rivals, had
bad loans that accounted for 0.4 percent of its portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  