-- 
Hong Kong Yuan Conversion Quota May Double in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-03T06:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/hong-kong-yuan-conversion-quota-may-double-in-fourth-quarter-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s quarterly yuan conversion
quota with China may double to 8 billion yuan ($1.26 billion)
this year after the existing limit was reached in the last three
months, the city’s monetary authority said today in a statement.  The quota was exhausted during the July-September period
because there were more companies selling yuan to the city’s
banks than there were buying the currency, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said in a separate statement on Sept. 23. The
yuan dropped to a six-month low of 6.56 per dollar in offshore
trading in Hong Kong that day, a record 1.9 percent discount to
the prevailing onshore rate in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan pared losses today in Hong Kong after the HKMA’s
announcement, trading 0.04 percent weaker at 6.4950 per dollar
as of 2:20 p.m. local time. That’s 1.7 percent weaker than the
onshore rate, which ended Sept. 30 at 6.3859. Mainland  China ’s
financial markets are closed this week for the National Day
holiday. The currency sank 2.1 percent in Hong Kong in
September, more than the 0.12 percent loss in Shanghai, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis bolstered demand for dollars.  “The quota expansion is a positive as it eases the
pressure to sell yuan in the market,” said Chan Tak Cheung,
head of currencies and interest-rate trading at Bank of East
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There’s still concern about Europe’s
debt crisis and a slowdown in China’s economic growth. The
impact of the new quota will be clearer when China’s market
reopens next week.”  Yuan Trade  The amount of yuan-denominated trade settled in Hong Kong
jumped 25 percent to 186 billion yuan in August from the
previous month, HKMA data show. The HKMA said today it expects
the currency to be used more widely in the city’s commerce after
China expanded the its yuan trade-settlement program from 20
provinces to nationwide.  “By providing a price closer to the onshore rate, the
offshore market can be adjusted in tandem with the onshore
market,” said Raymond Yeung, economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. “In the medium term,
the gap between onshore and offshore cannot be sustained with
increasing cross-border trade flow.”  -- With assistance from Stephanie Tong, Sophie Leung and Marco
Lui in Hong Kong. Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  