-- 
Lonmin to Sell Majority Stake in Limpopo Division to Ramaphosa’s Shanduka

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-10-03T15:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/lonmin-to-sell-majority-stake-in-limpopo-division-to-ramaphosa-s-shanduka.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, plans to sell a controlling stake in its
Limpopo division to Shanduka Group Ltd. for 1.1 billion rand
($135 million) if a feasibility review is successful.  Shanduka, a black-investors holding company, will be
entitled to subscribe for 50 percent plus one share in the
issued capital of Messina Platinum Mines Ltd., which is wholly
owned by a subsidiary of Lonmin’s Western Platinum Ltd., the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement.  The deal will enable Lonmin to develop its Limpopo Baobab
mine in  South Africa , where operations were halted in 2009 after
the global financial crisis sent platinum prices plummeting, and
help meet the government’s the black-shareholding target of 26
percent by 2014.  “The provision of capital by Shanduka will enable Lonmin
to retain its balance sheet capacity and management focus on
growth from its Marikana operations,” Lonmin said.  The platinum miner will continue to hold an 82 percent
interest in Western Platinum, which will have the option to fund
any expansion if the Limpopo division boosts production to more
than 250,000 ounces a year in exchange for shares in Messina
Platinum Mines, according to the statement.  ‘Canny Deal’  It is “a small but canny deal by Lonmin, which extracts
value from a small and non-core asset,” Liberum Capital Ltd.
said in a note. It would give Lonmin a cash injection “at an
opportune time since at current PGM prices we believe its
balance sheet out to 2015 is set to come under scrutiny,” it
added. PGMs are platinum group metals.  Shareholder approval may be required as Shanduka is a
related party, Lonmin said. Shanduka controls Lonmin’s
empowerment partner Incwala Resources Ltd. and  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
founder and chairman of Shanduka, is a director of Lonmin. The
deal is expected to take 12 to 15 months to close, Lonmin said.  Lonmin fell 22 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 1,029 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa
Platinum Mining Index gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  