-- 
Moody’s, Fitch, S&P Must Face New Mexico Securities Lawsuit, Judge Rules

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T22:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/moody-s-fitch-s-p-must-face-new-mexico-securities-lawsuit-judge-rules.html
Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , Fitch Inc. and
 Standard & Poor’s  must face claims in a lawsuit brought by
investors in mortgage-backed securities that they violated New
Mexico securities law.  U.S. District Judge James O. Browning in  Albuquerque , New
Mexico, in a Sept. 30 order denied the rating companies’ request
to dismiss the claim against them. The judge didn’t provide his
reasons for the ruling, saying he will issue a detailed opinion
later.  The plaintiffs, led by the Maryland-National Capital Park &
Planning Commission Employees’ Retirement and the Midwest
Operating Engineers Pension Trust Fund, filed an amended
complaint in December 2010, seeking to represent other investors
in $5 billion of Thornburg Mortgage Home Loans Inc. mortgage-
backed securities.  The investors allege that the rating companies gave the
securities false and misleading AAA or Aaa ratings.  In a Feb. 11 request to dismiss the claim, lawyers for the
rating companies said every court has rejected efforts to hold
them liable under federal securities law.  The plaintiffs’ claim under  New Mexico  law was a “blatant
attempt to avoid the parade of recent decisions that have
rightly held that issuing credit ratings is not the same thing
as selling or underwriting securities,” according to the filing
by the companies.  Partial Wins  Browning also granted and denied in part motions to dismiss
by the underwriters and other defendants.  “Moody’s believes the lawsuit is without merit and remains
confident the claims against it will ultimately dismissed,”
Michael Adler, a spokesman for the New York-based company, said
in a phone interview.  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for Standard & Poor’s in  New York ,
had no immediate comment on the ruling. Sandro Scenga, a
spokesman for Fitch, didn’t immediately return a call to his
office seeking comment.  A federal judge in Columbus,  Ohio , on Sept. 27 threw out a
case against the three companies alleging their ratings of
mortgage-backed securities were faulty and caused five Ohio
public employee pension funds to buy money-losing investments.  U.S. District Judge James L. Graham agreed with the firms
that the ratings were “predictive opinions.” Without specific
allegations that the ratings services intended to defraud
investors, the companies couldn’t be held liable, he said.  The case is Genesee County Employees Retirement System v.
Thornburg Mortgage Securities Trust 2006-3, U.S. District Court,
District of New Mexico (Albuquerque).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  