-- 
Oracle’s Ellison Unveils Faster System to Challenge SAP, IBM

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-04T01:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/oracle-s-ellison-introduces-faster-data-system-in-challenge-to-sap-ibm.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  introduced two new
computer systems, one with faster data access and another for
organizing information from the Web, as it aims to win market
share from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  SAP AG. (SAP)   Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  unveiled one system
yesterday, called the Exalytics Intelligence Machine, that
analyzes information within its dynamic random access memory.
The approach makes the product many times faster than machines
that store data on disk drives, Ellison said in a speech at the
company’s OpenWorld conference in San Francisco.  Thomas Kurian, an executive vice president, said today that
Oracle will release another system, dubbed the Big Data
Appliance, to sort information collected by the open-source
software Hadoop -- used for unstructured data such as e-mails
and social media postings -- and load it into Oracle’s database.  Oracle -- the world’s largest maker of  database software 
and the second-biggest maker of business applications, behind
SAP -- is seeking to keep its database relevant for computing
jobs that involve increasing amounts of information. Embracing
open-source software tools like Hadoop may help the company hold
its lead in the market as customers seek ways to sift through
information from new sources, such as Facebook and Twitter.  ‘New Stuff’  “When you talk about big data, this is new stuff,” said
 Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co. in San Francisco.
“It’s not cost savings -- it’s an opportunity for IT to drive
growth.”  For example, companies could meld information from Twitter
with customer data stored in Oracle’s database to decide which
customers’ posts are most important, Goldmacher said.  The Big Data Appliance system also includes a so-called
NoSQL database that can store large quantities of information
from Web applications and social-media sites, Kurian said.  Responding to Ellison’s introduction of the DRAM-based
Exalytics system, Sanjay Poonen, president for global solutions
at SAP, said Oracle’s approach to in-memory computing requires
customers to buy and maintain more hardware than a competitive
SAP system, called Hana.  “They’ve taken old technology and thrown more hardware at
it,” he said. “It’s another machine you have to buy.”  Hana will soon let users analyze data from the Web gathered
with Hadoop, Poonen said.  Sparc Chips  Ellison also said that  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle plans another update to its Sparc microprocessor next
year that’s twice as fast as its recently released T4 chip. The
idea is to challenge IBM for more hardware sales through
Oracle’s Sun Microsystems unit, gained in a $7.4 billion
acquisition last year.  “We want to take IBM on in their strongest suit, which is
the microprocessor,” Ellison said. Oracle’s T4 chip runs
software written in the Java programming language faster in a
benchmark test than a competitive IBM system, he said. The
company introduced a new Sparc SuperCluster system on Sept. 26
using the Sparc T4.  Steve Mills , an IBM senior vice president, said Ellison may
struggle to make inroads with the Sparc chip. Oracle would have
to make billions of dollars in investments to keep Sparc
competitive with IBM and  Intel Corp . in the future, he said last
week in an interview.  “Sparc’s out of gas,” Mills said.  Oracle’s Sun hardware sales declined 1.4 percent to $1.67
billion in the three months ended in August as it emphasized
more-profitable systems over lower-priced ones.  High-End Hardware  Oracle has been pushing high-end  computer hardware ,
including its Exadata system loaded with database software, and
Exalogic, a system that runs business applications. Ellison
reiterated that Oracle has sold 1,000 of the Exadata machines to
companies, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and BNP Paribas SA,
and could sell 3,000 more this year.  Oracle is integrating its hardware and software lines to
deliver better performance for various computing tasks, co-
President  Mark Hurd  said during the conference today.  In a separate interview with “Bloomberg West,” Hurd said
Oracle would focus on internal growth for the time being after
making about 70 acquisitions in recent years. The company also
may increase research-and-development spending this year from
the $4.5 billion it spent in the fiscal year ended May 31, he
said.  Hurd said he’s spending 80 percent of his time at OpenWorld
meeting with customers, who are spending on areas such as mobile
computing and making data available faster to their users.  “We’re very focused this second on organic growth,” Hurd
said. “We feel great about our portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  