-- 
Oral Sex May Cause More Throat Cancer Than Smoking in Men, Researchers Say

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/oral-sex-may-cause-virus-linked-throat-cancer-in-men-study.html
A virus spread by  oral sex  may cause
more cases of throat cancer in men than smoking, a finding that
spurred calls for a new large-scale test of a drug used against
the infection.  Researchers examined 271 throat-tumor samples collected
over 20 years ending in 2004 and found that the percentage of
oral cancer linked to the human papillomavirus, or HPV, surged
to 72 percent from about 16 percent, according to a report
released yesterday in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. By 2020,
the virus-linked throat tumors -- which mostly affected men --
will become more common than HPV-caused cervical cancer, the
report found.  HPV is known for infecting genitals. The finding that it
can spread to the throat and cause cancer may increase pressure
on Merck & Co., the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, to conduct
large-scale trials to see if its vaccine Gardasil, which wards
off cervical cancer in women, also prevents HPV throat
infections.  “The burden of cancer caused by HPV is going to shift from
women to men in this decade,” Maura Gillison, an oncologist at
 Ohio State University  and study senior author, said in a
telephone interview. “What we believe is happening is that the
number of sexual partners and exposure to HPV has risen over
that same time period.”  Gillison said she worked with researchers at  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck several years ago to design a
study in men. After Merck acquired Schering-Plough Corp. in
2009, though, the trial “was canceled,” she said.  No Further Study  Pamela Eisele, a spokeswoman for Merck, said the company
decided not to move ahead with a big oral cancer study “due to
competing research and business priorities.”  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  has “no plans” to study the company’s competing vaccine
Cervarix outside of cervical cancer, Jennifer Armstrong, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Gardasil  is approved for preventing cervical, vaginal and
anal cancers and genital warts, and is recommended for girls and
women ages 9 through 26. It is also approved for preventing
genital warts and anal cancer in boys and young men of the same
ages. Glaxo’s Cervarix is approved for preventing cervical
cancer in females ages 9 through 25.  Both vaccines target the HPV strain linked to oral cancer,
Gillison said.  HPV-linked throat cancers, or orophyaryngeal cancer, are
increasing so rapidly that by 2020 there will be 8,700 U.S.
cases, with 7,400 cases in men, versus 7,700 cases of cervical
cancer, the study said. Male cases alone will outnumber cervical
cancer cases soon after 2020, Gillison said. The Ohio State
study is based on tumor samples from several U.S. states.  HPV Infections  Roughly 20 million Americans have genital  HPV infections ,
according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. At least half of sexually active women and men get
it at some point in their lives, the CDC says. Most of the time
it doesn’t cause health problems.  Until recently, head and neck cancer mainly occurred in
older patients and was associated with tobacco and alcohol use.
The HPV-linked head and neck cancers, usually of the tonsils,
palate or tongue, hit men their 30s, 40s, and 50s, Gillison
said. It is unclear why women are affected much less often than
men, she said.  The decline in HPV-negative oral cancers mirrors the
decline of smoking in the U.S., the study said.  Treatment involving chemotherapy, radiation and sometimes
surgery, “is very nasty,” said Gillison. “It can leave people
with permanent physical disfigurement, difficulty with speech
and swallowing and poor dental health.”  Research Effort  Gillison started researching the oral cancer epidemic more
than a decade ago as a fellow at  Johns Hopkins University .
Another researcher told her about a report from  Europe  of a case
of oral cancer that was HPV positive, she said.  “I started working on it immediately,” she said.  In a 2007 epidemiology study published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine , Gillison and her colleagues found that
having a high number of oral or vaginal sex partners are risk
factors for HPV-associated throat cancer. The cancer may also be
spread by open-mouth kissing, Gillison said in the interview.  “Nobody paid attention to oral HPV infections until
2007,” she said. “We are about 15 years behind in the
research” compared with the data on cervical cancer and HPV,
she said.  An editorial accompanying the study concluded that trials
to see whether vaccines prevent oral cancer “are needed, given
that prevention through vaccination will almost certainly be the
ultimate solution” to HPV-positive oral cancers.  A key step would be to perform a natural history study that
would follow people over a number of years and track in more
detail how HPV-oral infections lead to cancer. This could help
inform how to design a vaccine trial, Gillison said.  Both vaccines target the HPV strain linked to oral cancer,
Gillison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  