-- 
Morgan Stanley Swaps Risk May Be Misread, Wells Fargo Says

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-03T15:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/morgan-stanley-risk-to-swaps-may-be-misread-wells-fargo-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s derivatives holdings
may have been misread by markets and investors, prompting the
bank to plunge more than 10 percent on Sept. 30, a  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  analyst wrote in a report.  Concern about Morgan Stanley “appears to be driven” by
confusion over a U.S. government report that said the company
had $1.78 trillion of outstanding notional value of derivatives
in the second quarter, Wells Fargo’s Matthew Burnell wrote Sept.
30. In reality, so-called netting agreements outlined in the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency report mean Morgan
Stanley’s derivatives positions totaled $457 million, according
to Burnell.  “Net credit exposure is well below its peer group,”
Burnell, who has a “market perform” rating on Morgan Stanley
shares, told clients.  Morgan Stanley fell 1 cent, or 0.1 percent, to $13.50 at 11
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading, after
climbing as much as 4 percent earlier today. The stock has
dropped 50 percent this year before today.  The cost of buying credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley,
which offer investors protection against a default by the New
York-based bank, rose to a mid-price of 515 basis points as of
10:28 a.m., according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The
price of insurance on Morgan Stanley is higher than Italian
banks  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and means investors
have to pay $515,000 a year for every $10 million of debt they
are protecting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Aid  The firm, which owns the world’s biggest retail brokerage,
was the largest recipient of emergency loans from the  Federal
Reserve  during the financial crisis and also benefited from
capital provided by Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., now the biggest shareholder, and the  U.S. Treasury , which
it repaid with interest less than a year later.  The largest Wall Street firms will start reporting third-
quarter results this month showing how they performed in a
market grappling with fallout from Standard & Poor’s downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating and concern  Greece  would default.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley warned investors in
September trading revenue may suffer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  