-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Seek More Access to Major League Baseball Records

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-03T15:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/los-angeles-dodgers-seek-expanded-access-to-major-league-baseball-records.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers, preparing
for a court fight with  Major League Baseball , asked a judge for
greater access to records of Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s
treatment of other teams.  Last week, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross ruled that the
Dodgers cannot seek information from, or about, other MLB clubs
to prepare for a showdown between team owner Frank McCourt and
Selig scheduled for the week of Oct. 31.  At the hearing, Gross will decide whether to force McCourt
to sell the team, as Selig has demanded, or let McCourt keep the
team and raise the money he needs to get the Dodgers out of
bankruptcy by auctioning off the right to televise future games.  “There is no legitimate basis for the commissioner to
treat LAD differently than other Baseball clubs in reviewing
proposed transactions,” the team said in its motion, filed
today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The team filed bankruptcy in June after Selig refused to
approve a new television contract that McCourt had negotiated
with the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Early in the team’s bankruptcy, lawyers for MLB opposed
giving the Dodgers information about Selig’s oversight of other
clubs.  The Dodgers’ seek to compare Selig’s treatment of
television contracts with other teams to his rejection of
McCourt’s proposed deal with Fox.  Gross said he expects Selig and McCourt to testify at the
hearing about the future of the team.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  