-- 
Osborne Says He’ll Stick to Austerity Plan as S&P Affirms U.K. Top Rating

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-03T13:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/osborne-says-he-ll-stick-to-austerity-plan-as-s-p-affirms-u-k-top-rating.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  pledged to stick to his deficit-reduction plan,
saying low  interest rates  are the best way to generate growth,
as  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the country’s AAA debt rating.  Osborne, who oversees an economy that’s barely expanded in
the last year, defended his refusal to increase spending to try
to spark growth in a speech to his  Conservative Party’s annual
conference  today. He said the world is facing a “debt crisis”
that means fiscal expansion carries more risks than potential
benefits. Instead, the chancellor said the Treasury will look at
ways of funneling money directly to British companies.  “Borrowing too much is the cause of Britain’s problems,
not the solution,” Osborne told delegates in Manchester,
northwest  England . He said that with bond markets “ready to
pick off the next country that lacks the will to deal with its
debts,” deviation from his program would “be abandoning the
deficit plan that has brought us the stability other nations
today crave.”  His case was supported by S&P’s announcement, published as
he started his speech, that it is keeping the U.K.’s credit
rating unchanged, with a “stable” outlook. It’s two months
since the company downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the
first time, slamming that country’s political process and
criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut spending or raise
revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits.  ‘React Quickly’  “In our view, the U.K. has a wealthy, open, and
diversified economy, supported by a well-established political
system and macroeconomic policy framework, which can react
quickly to economic challenges,” S&P said in its statement.
“We expect economic policy to focus on closing the fiscal gap,
and we forecast the government’s net debt burden to peak in
2013. The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the
government will implement the bulk of its fiscal consolidation
program.”  A plan to eliminate the structural deficit by 2015 by
introducing the deepest public spending cuts since World War II
has been the centerpiece of government policy, drawing criticism
from the opposition Labour Party and unions, which say they’re
leading to stagnation.  Recent poor economic data have led  Liberal Democrats  within
the coalition government to float in private the possibility of
bringing forward  capital spending , according to a lawmaker
familiar with the discussions. The  BBC  reported Sept. 20 that
ministers were discussing increasing the infrastructure budget
by as much as 5 billion pounds ($8 billion), without saying
where it got its information.  ‘Every Option’  “Don’t think I haven’t thought hard about what more could
be done, that I don’t explore every option; I do,” Osborne
said. He argued “we’d be risking our nation’s credit rating for
a few billion pounds more.”  Osborne said that Britain would “ride out the storm” that
is facing the world economy and again rejected calls for
temporary tax cuts.  The chancellor said he would get the Treasury to boost the
flow of credit to companies as a way of spurring growth.  “It’s known as credit easing,” Osborne said. “It’s
another form of monetary activism.”  Three Options  The practice of credit easing allows authorities to buy
private-sector assets to increase liquidity in the economy. The
Treasury is looking at three options, according to an official
at the department: instructing the Bank of England to buy
corporate bonds; encouraging a secondary market for loans to
small companies; or co-funding loans to such companies directly.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, said at
his party’s conference two weeks ago the central bank should
consider buying company debt to stimulate growth.  “Instead of just buying up  government securities , we can
perhaps do more imaginative things such as buying up corporate
assets or bundles of loans,” Cable said.  S&P said Britain’s recovery will face pressure from the
fiscal squeeze. The economy may expand about 1.8 percent on
average through 2014, less than the 2.5 percent rate forecast by
the  Office for Budget Responsibility , the government’s fiscal
watchdog, it said.  “The ratings could come under downward pressure if,
against our expectations, and perhaps in response to weakening
growth prospects, the coalition government’s commitment to
fiscal consolidation falters,” S&P said in its statement.
“Such downward rating pressure could stem from a reappraisal of
our fiscal deficit forecasts or of our view of the government’s
ability to implement its current fiscal strategy.”  Consumer Pessimism  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for U.K.
economic growth last month to 1.1 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2012 from previous projections of 1.5 percent and 2.3
percent respectively. U.K. consumer confidence fell to a four-
month low in August as Britons grew more pessimistic about the
outlook for the economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  Bank of England  policy makers debated adding more stimulus
to the economy last month in a meeting that was “finely
balanced.” They will probably leave the key interest rate and
bond-purchase program on hold this week, two surveys of
economists by Bloomberg News show.  “ Monetary policy  should, in our view, provide some support
to the economy, as low interest rates keep private-sector debt-
servicing costs low, and the currency at competitive levels,”
S&P said.  The yield on 10-year gilts fell 6 basis points to 2.37
percent as of 2:42 p.m. in London. The pound fell for a second
day against the dollar, slipping 0.5 percent to $1.5507.  The U.K. suffered a credit-rating scare in 2009, when S&P
lowered the outlook to “negative” amid concerns on the public
finances. The outlook was restored to “stable” in October
2010, five months after the coalition government took office.  Osborne said agreements to prevent the euro-region debt
crisis spreading beyond  Greece  would provide the single largest
boost to the U.K. economy, saying the failure to find solutions
was proving “debilitating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 