-- 
Osborne Seeks to Shore Business Credit as U.K. Economic Outlook Darkens

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-04T09:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/osborne-seeks-to-shore-up-business-credit-as-u-k-economic-outlook-darkens.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  responded to mounting concerns over the economy by
proposing to lend billions of pounds of public money directly to
British companies struggling to obtain credit from banks.  The proposal, outlined yesterday, would see the Treasury
buy bonds issued by small and mid-sized companies in a program
known as credit easing. The purchases would be financed from the
sale of Treasury bills or government bonds. One possibility
would be to instruct the  Bank of England  to buy corporate bonds.  “The government is under huge and very intense pressure to
act,” said Will Hutton, director of the Work Foundation, a
London-based research group. “Everyone knows that they can’t
stick to this plan so what they are doing is having to find
other ways.”  The move underlines the depth of concern over the potential
fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis on the banking system. Three
years after the last credit crunch pushed the British economy
into a record recession, small and medium-sized companies say
banks continue to deny them access to loans on reasonable terms.  With Osborne refusing to slow the pace of  deficit
reduction , his  Conservative Party  and its Liberal Democrat
coalition partners are demanding he find ways to stimulate an
economy that has barely grown in a year. In his speech yesterday
at the Conservative conference in Manchester, northwest  England ,
he described credit easing as “another form of monetary
activism.”  New Front  The plan opens a new front in the fight to keep the economy
growing. Until now, Osborne has put the onus on the Bank of
England to spur growth through its program of buying  government
bonds  with newly created money, known as quantitative easing.  QE has focused almost entirely on buying gilts, with
corporate debt accounting for just over 1 billion pounds ($1.53
billion) of the  200 billion pounds  of assets purchased since the
program began in March 2009. In the previous two months, the
bank bought corporate bonds financed by government-bill sales
through the Asset Purchase Facility.  Osborne said yesterday he’d approve any request from the
Bank of England to reactivate quantitative easing. Nine out of
30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast policy makers
will do so when they meet this week, the highest proportion
since November 2009, when the central bank last expanded the
program.  ‘Back Door’  “This is a realization that the current policy isn’t
working,” Jonathan Portes, director of the National Institute
of Economic and Social Research, said of Osborne’s proposal.
“It’s a way of easing fiscal policy through the back door and
it’s about time too. There are many, many people who have been
calling for this.”  The practice of credit easing allows authorities to buy
private-sector assets to increase liquidity and credit in the
economy. The Treasury is looking at three options, according to
an official at the department: instructing the Bank of England
to buy corporate bonds; encouraging a secondary market for loans
by purchasing securitized loans made to small companies; or co-
funding or underwriting loans to such companies directly.  “It could help prevent another credit crunch, provide a
real boost to British business and over time help solve that
age-old problem in Britain: not enough long-term investment in
small business and enterprise,” Osborne said yesterday.  ‘Unknowable Risk’  The program would not add to the  budget deficit  because the
government would gain an asset of the equivalent value when it
buys corporate securities, the Treasury official said. The
amount would be recorded as extra debt until the corporate bonds
are resold.  The Work Foundation ’s Hutton said buying debt amounts to
creating a special purpose vehicle to fund lending that has
almost “unknowable risk.”  Osborne will give further details of the plan when he
updates Parliament on the  economic and fiscal outlook  on Nov.
29.  The initiative comes as the government struggles to meet
targets for lending to businesses under its  Project Merlin 
agreement with five major U.K. banks in February. Lending to
small and medium-sized enterprises in the first half was 37.3
billion pounds, less than half the 76 billion-pound full-year
target, central bank data show.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  used
the term “credit easing” in a January, 2009, speech to
describe a policy aimed at reducing credit spreads and
“improving the functioning of private credit markets more
generally.” The Fed has purchased mortgage-backed securities
and  U.S. Treasuries , expanding total assets on its balance sheet
to $2.85 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  