-- 
Most-Accurate Forecasters See 10-Year Bond Yields Below 1%: Japan Credit

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-10-04T04:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/most-accurate-dealers-say-yields-to-hold-below-1-japan-credit.html
Primary dealers who correctly
predicted  Japan ’s benchmark bond yields would slide toward 1
percent in the third quarter say the rates will end the year
below that level as the economic recovery stalls.  Ten-year yields will finish 2011 at 0.95 percent or less,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Capital  and Tokai
Tokyo Securities Co., the three most-accurate forecasters for
the third quarter in a Bloomberg News survey conducted in June.
The median estimate of 23 primary dealers surveyed last week
indicates that rates may rise to 1.1 percent.  The nation’s bonds gained for a seventh month in September,
the longest streak since May 2003, as Japan’s economy struggled
to rebound from a record earthquake, the U.S. recovery faltered
and  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified. Ten-year yields fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, last quarter, outpaced
by declines of more than 1 percentage point for the benchmark
debt of the U.S. and  Germany .  “Globally, policy makers are running out of fiscal and
monetary policy options aimed to spur growth,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , the chief rate strategist in Tokyo at JPMorgan, who
forecasts the yields will be at 0.85 percent in December.
“Europe’s debt issue is looking worse, and tension will
increase heading into the year-end. Japan’s yields will catch up
with the decline in U.S. and European rates.”  Japan’s 10-year yields slid to 1.02 percent last quarter
from 1.13 percent three months earlier. Sixteen strategists in
Bloomberg’s June survey forecast the rate would end the third
quarter at between 1.2 percent and 1.4 percent, while two
predicted a decline to 0.9 percent.  Corporate Sentiment  The yield was at 0.995 percent as of 1:39 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
the second lowest among developed bond markets tracked by
Bloomberg after  Switzerland ’s. Japan’s benchmark yield slid to
0.965 percent on Sept. 22, the least since Nov. 9.  Japanese government debt returned 1.7 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data shows. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average has lost 18 percent in the same period.  Sentiment among the country’s largest manufacturers remains
worse than before the March earthquake that triggered an
economic contraction. The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index
released yesterday showed that sentiment was at 2 in September,
from 6 before the disaster. A positive number means optimists
outnumber pessimists.  Large companies said they based their business plans on the
yen averaging 81.15 per dollar in the year ending March 31,
according to the Tankan report. The yen rose to a postwar record
of 75.95 in August and traded at 76.70 today.  ‘Main Themes’  Concern that  Greece  will default on its debt and the U.S.
may enter another recession is weighing on corporate confidence.
The  Federal Reserve  last month announced a plan to sell shorter-
maturity debt and buy longer-dated bonds to spur the economy
through lower borrowing costs. Ten-year Treasury yields sank to
a record 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23.  “Europe’s debt problems and a U.S. economic slowdown will
continue to be the main themes for Japan’s bonds,” said  Chotaro Morita , chief rates strategist in Tokyo at Barclays Capital.
“If yields fall overseas, Japan’s rates are likely try below
0.9 percent.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said on Sept. 15 that gross
domestic product will grow 2.5 percent or more in the year
starting April 2012 as reconstruction efforts buoy the economy.
Japan’s GDP shrank in the three quarters through June.  “There will be a rebound in bond yields,” said  Kenro Kawano , head of Japan  interest-rate  strategy at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo. “Excessive pessimism has caused fund flows
that diverged from the actual economic situation, and policy
actions will be a trigger that corrects it.”  Bond Issuance  Kawano is one of seven primary dealers in Bloomberg’s
September survey who said that yields will rise to at least 1.2
percent by the end of December. The median estimate of those
polled indicated yields will be at 1.15 percent in March 2012.  Noda’s ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan last week agreed to
spend about 12 trillion yen ($156 billion) for rebuilding from
the March disaster on top of 6 trillion yen in measures already
announced. While the DPJ plans to defer the expense through tax
increases and the sale of the government’s stake in Japan
Tobacco Inc., expectations remain that bond issuance will need
to expand to cover the bill.  “The government will increase issuance of bonds,” said
 Akihiko Inoue , chief strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co., who projects 10-year yields will rise to 1.2
percent by the end of the year. “Everybody keeps their eyes
closed to it, but once bonds start to be sold, positive
catalysts for them will be completely ignored.”  BOJ Easing  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the Markit iTraxx
Japan Index of credit-default swaps for 50 companies rose to
209.25 basis points yesterday, the highest close since July
2009, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The gauge is a benchmark for
protecting bonds against default.  Default swaps protecting Japanese government debt for five
years were at 148.89 basis points, according to CMA prices in
 New York , compared with 117.80 for German bunds and 52.27 for
U.S. Treasuries.  The  Bank of Japan  is likely to keep monetary easing in
place to assist in the recovery, with economists in a separate
Bloomberg survey forecasting the central bank will hold its key
interest rate near zero throughout next year. The BOJ has a 4
trillion yen fund dedicated to purchasing  government bonds 
maturing in two years or less.  “If the government increases issuance of bonds with a
maturity of two or five years, they will be absorbed in the
market with little difficulty,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior
economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co. BOJ easing measures
will help keep yields on shorter-term debt low, said Bandou, who
forecasts 10-year yields will finish 2011 at 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  