-- 
Tougher BofA Mortgage Stance Was Opposed by BlackRock Attorney

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/tougher-bofa-mortgage-settlement-terms-were-opposed-by-blackrock-attorney.html
The lawyer who helped craft a
proposed $8.5 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  over
soured mortgages urged some of her biggest bondholder clients to
oppose a more aggressive stance set forth by a rival attorney.  Gibbs & Bruns LLP’s  Kathy Patrick  told clients including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. last year
that they shouldn’t authorize a competing plan to threaten  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the bondholders, for
failing to act adequately on their behalf.  “I want to be able to distance this effort from any
declaration of default so that we can continue to try to work
constructively with Bank of New York,” Patrick wrote in the Aug.
4, 2010, e-mail, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
“We don’t want to be forced to go to war with them if there is
an opportunity to achieve victory by other means.”  Investors including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
local pension funds, along with New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , have criticized the settlement in court, saying
the payout should be larger or that more information is needed
to evaluate it.  The 22 investment firms that hired Patrick and worked with
BNY Mellon may have conflicts of interest that prevented them
from negotiating for more money on behalf of all investors in
the Countrywide bonds, due to “significant ongoing business
dealings with Bank of America,” according to a court filing by
the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of  Chicago , the  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , General Retirement System, and two other
retirement systems.  Countrywide Paper  The settlement covers $424 billion of home-loan securities
created by Countrywide Financial Corp. before  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America bought the firm in 2008. Some of
the bonds involved aren’t owned by the 22 firms, a group that
grew from a total of eight last October and also includes the
Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York and  MetLife Inc. (MET)   Mortgage-bond investors typically must rely on the trustee
for their transactions to take legal action, and must band
together to have standing to force certain steps. BNY Mellon has
sought court approval of the settlement.  Robert Madden, Kathy Patrick’s colleague at Houston-based
Gibbs & Bruns, said at a Sept. 21 court hearing that proof of
the honest intentions of the investors represented by his firm
can be seen by their decision to organize and pursue payments
for faulty loans.  “No one was doing anything until we started,” Madden said.
“It was in no way collusive and in no way intended to assist
either Bank of New York or Bank of America.”  Franklin Initiative  Patrick’s e-mail shows that another group was also
preparing a bid to force Countrywide to buy back mortgages that
failed to meet its contractual promises about their quality
through Talcott Franklin, a Dallas-based attorney whose clients
include the Knights of Columbus, a charitable organization that
now objects to the settlement.  Franklin’s so-called RMBS Investor Clearing House involved
more than a third of the $1.5 trillion of U.S. home-loan bonds
without government backing as of July 2010, he said at the time.
The initiative lets bondholders pool their holdings to take
legal or other action by providing them a way to find other
investors in deals without disclosing their positions to rivals.  Joining the clearinghouse doesn’t mean investors are hiring
Franklin to speak on their behalf about specific issues.  Default Threat  In early August 2010, Franklin was “on the verge of
sending a letter to Bank of  New York  declaring BONY in default
of its obligations” on Countywide mortgage-bond deals,
according to Patrick’s e-mail to several investment firms
including BlackRock and Pimco, as well as the New York Fed and
MetLife. “If you have not already done so, it is important you
promptly advise him that he is not authorized to send a notice
of default on your behalf,” she wrote.  Franklin didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Brian Beades , a spokesman for New York-based BlackRock, the
world’s largest money manager,  John Calagna , a spokesman for New
York-based MetLife, the biggest U.S life insurer, and Andrea
Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined to comment.
 Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-
based Pimco, which manages the biggest bond fund, didn’t return
a message.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for  BNY Mellon , declined to
comment.  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  Better Results  Several of the investors wanted to stick with Patrick’s
approach because they thought it would produce better results,
according to two people familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because they weren’t authorized to talk.  Patrick declined to comment on the advice in her e-mail. In
it, she also said that she was “skeptical” Franklin’s group
would have enough holdings to take action involving Countrywide
deals without her clients and that it would be “a terrible
shame to waste the traction we have gained with” BNY Mellon.  “The effort you’re referring to is an effort by Mr.
Franklin to act on behalf of clients that he did not
represent,” Patrick said in a telephone interview. “Our
clients had engaged us many months before to pursue their rights
aggressively. Understandably our clients did not want another
lawyer purporting to act for their holdings.”  Accurate  The statement by Madden, her colleague, at the Sept. 21
hearing “was absolutely accurate,” she said. “Our clients
were the only ones that had aggressively pursued their rights.”  U.S. District Judge William Pauley held the hearing in
 Manhattan  on whether to keep the case in federal court or send
it back to New York state court where it was first filed.  Walnut Place LLC and related entities, representing
anonymous investors who own Countrywide mortgage bonds and have
criticized the proposed settlement, said the case belongs in
federal court. BNY Mellon, which was scheduled to seek approval
for the agreement at a November court hearing, wants the case
moved back to state court. Pauley hasn’t ruled on the issue.  The judge asked a lawyer for BNY Mellon how the
institutional investor group organized and whether BlackRock,
which last October counted Bank of America as its third-biggest
shareholder, was the “architect” of the agreement.  BNY Mellon’s description in court papers of its role in the
settlement discussion “conveys a certain passiveness” on the
part of the bank, the judge said. Matthew Ingber, an attorney
for BNY Mellon, said the bank didn’t play a role in organizing
the investor group and didn’t lead the negotiations.  Faulty Mortgages  Patrick’s group, which entered discussions with Bank of
America and BNY Mellon over soured Countrywide mortgages at
least as early as June 2010, last October sent a letter
representing the start of its own attempt to get BNY Mellon to
declare Countrywide in default of its duties as a loan servicer,
including its need to seek repurchases of faulty mortgages.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at   jshenn@bloomberg.net  and;
David McLaughlin in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  and;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 