-- 
House to Vote on Contractor Withholding Tax, Cantor Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-03T19:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/house-to-vote-on-contractor-withholding-tax-repeal-cantor-says.html
The House will vote this month on
repeal of a 3 percent withholding tax on U.S. government
contracts as Republicans seek “areas of commonality” with
President Obama on ways to jump-start the economy, House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said.  The law, written to prevent tax cheating by government
contractors, is scheduled to take effect in 2013. It requires
the federal government, state governments and many large local
governments to withhold 3 percent of contracts. Cantor said
“you will see as the bill comes forward” how the repeal would
make up the lost revenue.  Repealing the contractor withholding requirement will get a
House vote along with legislation to ratify trade agreements
with Colombia, Panama and  South Korea , Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, told reporters. The House will also vote on a repeal
of “onerous regulations” that Obama “has mentioned himself”
as hurting small businesses, Cantor said.  These measures, plus another to expand access of small
business to capital, “represent areas of commonality” between
Republicans and Obama, Cantor said.  “ Washington  has become so dysfunctional that we’ve got to
start focusing on the incremental progress that we can make” to
improve job growth, he said.  Drop Demand  Cantor also called on Obama to stop “targeting  House
Republicans  with campaign-style tactics,” and drop his “all-
or-nothing” demand that Congress pass his $447 billion  jobs
package . Cantor termed the package, proposed by Obama last
month, “unreasonable” and politically “infeasible.”  “No productivity can come from focusing on the divide”
between the two parties’ different prescriptions for the ailing
economy, he said.  “From a purely practical standpoint, the president has got
some whipping to do on his own side of the aisle,” because some
House and Senate Democrats have withheld their support for his
jobs package, Cantor said.  Obama said today he plans a renewed push among
congressional leaders to get votes on his jobs package.  “Pass it,” Obama said during a Cabinet meeting today at
the White House. “Get it to my desk.”  Major aspects of the plan include cutting the payroll
withholding tax, hiring incentives for small businesses and
spending to keep teachers employed and repair roads and bridges.  Possible Vote  Cantor didn’t rule out House consideration of the provision
in the president’s plan to reduce payroll withholding taxes,
saying that while such a move may not be “the most generative”
for job-creation, “ certainly it’s part of the discussion.”  He said he wants to know the Obama administration’s views
before scheduling a vote on proposed legislation to let U.S.
companies seek duties on imports from  China  to compensate for
the weak yuan. Cantor says he is concerned about the
“unintended consequences of a move like that on our economy.”  The Senate plans to debate China currency legislation this
week.  The Senate also will act this month on proposed trade
agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea, said Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  