-- 
Love Those California Whites? Then Try Chile’s Sauvignon Blanc

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/love-those-california-whites-try-chile-s-sauvignon-blanc-john-mariani.html
Name a good white wine from  Chile .
Stumped? I’m not surprised. While the media -- myself included -
- poured attention and praise on the country’s reds over the
last decade, the whites have gone relatively unnoticed.  Overwhelmingly they are made from either sauvignon blanc,
with 12,159 hectares planted, or chardonnay, with 13,082
hectares, along with a few thousand hectares of semillon,
viognier, riesling and gewurztraminer. Sauvignon blanc is, after
 cabernet sauvignon , Chile’s second-biggest varietal, with sales
of $9,140,725 this year, an 8.6 percent increase from last year.  Quality wines from these white varietals appeared only very
recently. Previous land restrictions from the socialist
government and the isolation of the vineyards in the western
mountains encouraged high-volume mediocrity, mostly from the
pais grape planted by Spanish missionaries.  While Chile didn’t develop a modern winemaking industry
until the 1980s, it has been quick to catch up, employing the
best new technologies of viticulture. In the vanguard of the
change was Spanish producer Miguel Torres, who planted grapes in
the Curico Valley in 1979.  Over the last few weeks I tasted a wide range of Chilean
whites -- on their own and then with food -- and, overall, found
a quality level I’d rank at or above the same varietals from  New
Zealand  and  California .  Well-Bred  While some of the South American nation’s sauvignon blancs
mimicked the overly grassy, vegetal smell and taste common in
those other New World rivals, others showed a remarkable
breeding for so young an industry.  All were cleanly made, with few trying to impress by high
alcohol or overripened fruit flavors.  Many, as is common in Chile, have screwcaps. While
winemakers may debate the merits of cork over screwcaps for red
wine, the metal seal is clearly better and easier to open when
it comes to white wines to be drunk within a year or two of
release.  Here are some of the Chilean wines I enjoyed most.  Cono Sur  Vision Sauvignon Blanc 2010 ($12-$14)  From the Casablanca Valley, with rich mineral clay soil,
this exhibits a true sauvignon blanc nose with minerals and new
grass, still pretty vegetal on the finish. It flourishes with
foods like chicken and corn.  Casas del Bosque  Reserva Sauvignon Blanc 2010 ($15)  From this family owned estate in the Casablanca Valley
comes a green-yellow wine with lots of body, the fragrance of
litchi, and the pronounced tang of lemony fruit and good acid.
It was perfect with a lunch of just-picked tomatoes, mozzarella,
bread, and olive oil.  Palo Alto  Sauvignon Blanc Reserva 2009 ($13)  Very pale green-gold color, with both nose and flavors more
herbaceous and mineral than grassy, very close in style to a
Loire Valley Sancerre and therefore ideal with simple seafood,
especially shrimp and lobster.  Matetic Vineyards  EQ Sauvignon Blanc 2010 ($20)  Made according to biodynamic principles in Valle de Rosario
vineyards, this is a sauvignon blanc with plenty of vigor, not
least a delightful minty finish. Of more than a dozen sauvignon
blancs I tasted, this to me seemed to have something distinctive
that might indicate the future expression of the Chilean
terroir.  Aquitania  Sol de Sol Chardonnay 2008 ($10)  This is a sunny wine from the Malleco Valley, and a little
age has bolstered its lovely bouquet and chardonnay flavor that
I associate with some of the lighter examples from Burgundy’s
Cote d’Or. That’s hardly surprising since three of the four
owners are French winemakers -- Paul Potallier, Bruno Prats and
Ghislain de Montgolfier. The fourth is Chilean enologist Felipe
de Solminihac. I enjoyed this wine with Chinese noodles, fully
complementing the soy sauce, ginger, and pepper.  Leyda  Lot 5 Wild Yeasts Chardonnay 2008 ($20)  Only 500 cases are made of this Leyda Valley wine, and
while it’s not very convincing as a chardonnay, its brisk acid
and tang made it a capital choice with a beef frankfurter
layered with sauerkraut, mustard, and horseradish.  Marques de Casa Concha  Chardonnay 2009 ($20)  Made by the huge Concha y Toro wine company, this is a
chardonnay for those that like them gutsy, with lots of vanilla,
a decent amount of oak, and 14 percent alcohol.  It’s quite a
mouthful, excellent with spicy food.  Emiliana Vineyards  Eco Balance Chardonnay 2010 ($9)  It sounds like a jogging shoe, but this is a very good buy
for a wine from organic, sustainable vineyards The acronymic
name Eco stands both for “ecology” and for “Enjoy life to the
fullest, Care for the world around you, and Open and share with
family and friends.” Lovely sentiments for a big, 14 percent
alcohol charmer that seems an honest marriage of California
boldness and French earthiness.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 