-- 
Panetta Seeks to Avert Israel’s Regional ‘Isolation’ as Peace Talks Stall

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-03T22:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/panetta-heads-to-middle-east-concerned-over-israel-s-increasing-isolation.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
met with Israeli and Palestinian leaders on a Middle East
mission to reverse what he called Israel’s increasing isolation,
as peace talks remain stalled and tensions with Turkey and  Egypt 
escalate.  “It is not a good situation for Israel to become
increasingly isolated, and that’s what’s happening,” Panetta
told reporters traveling with him to Tel Aviv, where he arrived
yesterday. “For the security of that region, it’s really
important that we do everything possible to try to help them re-
establish relations with countries like Turkey and with Egypt.”  Ties between Israel and Egypt have frayed since a popular
revolt ousted Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  in February and
produced calls to end the three-decade peace treaty between the
two nations.  Turkey  downgraded relations with Israel after
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to apologize
for a commando raid last year that left nine dead on a Turkish
vessel that was attempting to breach the Israeli naval blockade
of the  Gaza Strip .  “Security is dependent on a strong military, but it is
also dependent on strong diplomacy,” Panetta told reporters
during a joint appearance with Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  in Tel Aviv.  Panetta also publicly advised against unilateral military
action by Israel to deal with what it and the U.S. suspect are
clandestine Iranian efforts to develop nuclear weapons.  Egypt Next  Panetta will next travel to Cairo, where he plans to meet
with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who heads the
military council that took power from Mubarak, as well as Prime
Minister Essam Sharaf. Panetta then will travel to Brussels for
a meeting of North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense
ministers.  In  Tel Aviv  yesterday, Barak said that, while “there are
many that would like to see Israel cornered into some kind of
isolation,” he agreed that Israel should seek better relations
with Turkey and Egypt and find a way to resume talks with the
Palestinians.  “We have enough problems accumulated on our table,” said
Barak, a former prime minister and chairman of the Labor Party
who now heads the Independence Party, which holds five seats in
the 120-seat parliament. Netanyahu’s Likud party, which has 27
seats, leads a six-party coalition government.  Quartet Proposal  The so-called Quartet of the U.S., the  United Nations , the
European Union and  Russia  issued a proposal Sept. 23 for new
peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians after after
Palestinian leader  Mahmoud Abbas  asked the UN to approve a
Palestinian application for full membership.  Talks between  Israel  and the Palestinians broke down a year
ago after Netanyahu refused to renew a 10-month freeze on the
construction of Jewish settlements in territory that Israel won
from Jordan in the 1968 Six-Day War. Abbas has insisted that
settlement construction stop before peace talks resume.  “My main message to both sides is you don’t lose anything
by going into negotiations,” Panetta said.  Netanyahu yesterday said he accepted a Quartet proposal  to
restart peace talks. He has refused to halt settlement building
and last week Israel approved the construction of 1,100 new
homes in east  Jerusalem .  Panetta, who also met yesterday with Netanyahu and Abbas,
said the administration opposes a move in Congress to block aid
to the  Palestinian Authority  in retaliation for Abbas’s UN
recognition drive.  ‘Wrong Time’  American aid for Palestinian health projects,
infrastructure and security training has been “one of the most
effective” methods for helping the Palestinian Authority,
Panetta said.  “This would be exactly the wrong time to withdraw those
necessary funds,” he said.  Panetta met Abbas at his office in the West Bank city of
Ramallah yesterday and “reiterated the Obama administration’s
vision,” said chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat , who
attended the session.  Abbas “praised President Obama’s commitment to the two-
state solution” and said the Palestinians “are ready to go
back to negotiations” once Netanyahu declares a settlement
freeze and accepts the two-state solution based on the 1967
borders, he said.  Panetta is only the second U.S. defense secretary to visit
the Palestinian Authority headquarters and the first to meet
there with Abbas. Panetta’s predecessor, Robert Gates, visited
 Ramallah  in March for talks with Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad,
whom the U.S. credits with improving the authority’s financial
accountability.  Iran  Issue  On Iran, Panetta signaled that the U.S. continues to
discourage Israel from a potential military strike to stop the
Islamic republic’s nuclear program. The U.S. said it believes
Iran is pursuing an atomic weapon, while officials in Tehran say
they are interested only in civilian nuclear energy.  Asked to comment on calls in Israel for a pre-emptive
strike on Iran, Panetta said, “I think the most effective way
to deal with Iran is not on a unilateral basis.”  Panetta said Iran would be welcome as a responsible member
of the international community if its leaders decide to change
its behavior.  “If they don’t, we will work together to do whatever is
necessary to make sure that they do not represent a threat to
this region,” Panetta said in his appearance with Barak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Tel Aviv through the Washington newsroom at +1-
   vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 