-- 
Humala Names Three Directors to Peru’s Central Bank Board

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-03T18:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/peruvian-central-bank-names-arias-gallardo-serida-to-board.html
Peruvian President Ollanta Humala
designated three new directors to the seven-member board of the
central bank, in a move that eased concern his government would
try to play a greater role in monetary policy.  The government named Luis Arias, former head of tax
collection agency Sunat, and economics professors Jose Gallardo
and Jaime Serida to serve five-year terms, according to a notice
published today in state gazette El Peruano.  Humala, who took office July 28, also ratified the
appointment of central bank President Julio Velarde for a second
five-year term as the former army officer seeks to reassure
investors he’ll defend policies that gave Peru the fastest
growth and lowest inflation in  Latin America  in the last decade.  “There’s no indication there’ll be any change in the
direction of the central bank,”  Pedro Tuesta , a former Peruvian
central bank analyst and current economist at 4Cast Inc. in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview. “While the names are
recognized professionals, what strikes us is that none of them
are monetary or banking specialists. The trend in the region is
for directors to be experts in macro or financial economics.”  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7750 per  U.S. dollar  at
1:41 p.m. in  New York .  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to a two-year high of 297, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  University Professors  Arias, who ran Peru’s tax agency from 2000 to 2001, is an
economics professor at the Lima-based  Esan  university and holds
a Masters from the London School of Economics. Gallardo teaches
at the  Catholic University  in Lima and has an economics
doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley. Serida,
who also teaches at Esan, has a doctorate in management
information systems from the University of Minnesota.  “The fact that there doesn’t seem to be any political
affiliation between them is positive,” said  Carola Sandy , an
economist at Credit Suisse AG in New York.  The new directors, who must be sworn in by the head of the
judiciary before they can take up their posts, will replace Jose Chlimper, Carlos Raffo and Martha Rodriguez, who were appointed
by the previous government. Congress is responsible for
appointing the remaining three directors, who will replace
Beatriz Boza,Alfonso Lopez and Abel Salinas.  Changing Tack  Since taking office, Humala, leader of Peruvian Nationalist
Party and a one-time ally of Venezuelan president  Hugo Chavez ,
has pledged to honor investors’ contracts and spur private
investment. That has distanced him from vows during the
presidential campaign to renegotiate free trade agreements with
the U.S. and rewrite the constitution to boost the state’s
control of the economy.  The country’s currency, bonds and stocks rallied after
Humala signaled he’ll maintain existing economic policies and an
inflation-targeting regime by keeping Velarde at the central
bank and naming Miguel Castilla as finance minister.  Standard & Poor’s  cited the appointments as a reason for
raising  Peru ’s foreign debt rating to BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade, from BBB- on Aug. 30.  Forming the new central bank’s board “is among the first
tests of Humala’s market-friendly stance,” said Bank of America
in an e-mailed report before the appointments were made public.
“Over time, we think Humala will make further concessions to
leftist groups in his coalition and undertake more
interventionist policies than currently expected,” wrote
economists Francisco Rodriguez and Oscar Munoz.  The central bank will probably keep its benchmark lending
rate unchanged at 4.25 percent for a fifth straight month Oct.
6, according to 10 of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One
economist predicts a quarter-point decline to 4 percent.  Faster than expected economic growth and quickening
inflation suggest the bank should keep rates on hold, Tuesta
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 