-- 
Philippine Peso Drops to 8-Month Low on Plan to Ease Outflows

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-03T08:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/philippine-peso-drops-to-six-month-low-on-plan-to-ease-outflows.html
The Philippine peso dropped to its
weakest level in eight months following a report that the
central bank will ease restrictions on capital outflows.  The Philippine Star reported today, citing Governor Amando
Tetangco, one of the measures being considered is allowing
institutions to buy dollars from banks to pay foreign
obligations without the need to register with Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas. The peso weakened for a third day on speculation
imports will increase after two typhoons ravaged the country in
the past week.  “The measures the BSP is considering are likely to provide
some support for the  U.S. dollar ,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, an
economist in Manila at ING Groep NV. “The economic losses due
to the recent typhoons are other reasons.”  The peso fell 0.6 percent to close at 43.975 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency earlier
reached 44.03, its weakest level since Feb. 2.  Tetangco said last month the monetary authority may ask
banks to set aside more capital when trading non-deliverable
forwards in the peso to ensure they are used only for hedging.  Typhoon Nalgae, the second storm to strike the  Philippines 
in a week, killed at least one person and flooded nine towns and
cities in  Luzon , the nation’s main island. At least 55 people
were killed in the same area as Typhoon Nesat caused 8.8 billion
pesos ($200 million) of damage.  The Philippine central bank will consider the impact of
recent and expected tropical storms to farm output, domestic
supply and inflation at the next monetary policy meeting on Oct.
20, Tetangco said in a media briefing in  Manila .  The Philippines rejected all bids for debt due in three
months to a year at today’s auction as investors sought higher
yields. Bids totaled 7.582 billion pesos.  Ten-year  government bonds  rose, with the yield on the 6.5
percent notes due April 2021 falling one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.2 percent, according to noon fixing
prices from the Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 