-- 
Recession Risk Overtaking ’New Normal': Gross

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-03T17:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/pimco-s-gross-says-global-recession-risk-is-overtaking-new-normal-forecast.html
Bill Gross , the manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said the global economy risks lapsing
into recession with the pace of growth falling below the “new
normal” level the firm has predicted since 2009.  “Sovereign balance sheets resemble an overweight diabetic
on the verge of a heart attack,” Gross wrote in a monthly
investment outlook posted on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s website today. “If global
policy makers could focus on structural as opposed to cyclical
financial solutions, new normal growth as opposed to recession
might be possible. Long-term profits cannot ultimately grow
unless they are partnered with near equal benefits for labor.”  Pimco outlined the new normal scenario at its annual
Secular Forum in May 2009 that set investment guidelines for the
firm for the next three to five years. The forecast predicted
that following the market collapse in 2008 the  U.S. economy 
would grow at a below-average pace for the next several years as
growth in the developed markets slows, unemployment stays
elevated and the “heavy hand of government” would be evident
in the markets.  “Until recently, economic recovery has been relatively
robust if one were a deployer of capital as opposed to the
laborer who made that deployment possible,” Gross said. “Near
zero percent interest rates have allowed profit margins to widen
even in the face of anemic end demand. There are no double-digit
investment returns anywhere in sight for owners of financial
assets.”  Treasury Rally  After eliminating Treasuries from his $245 billion Total
Return Fund in February because they were too expensive, Gross
increased his holdings in U.S. government securities to 16
percent as the debt posted the highest quarterly returns in
almost three years. Treasuries gained 6.4 percent in the third
quarter as investors sought refuge amid slowing growth and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  The 30-year yield declined 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 2.77 percent at 1:56 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Benchmark 10-year
rates fell 13 basis points to 1.78 percent.  Bonds, stocks and real estate are all overvalued because of
almost zero percent interest rates and a developed world growth
rate closer to zero percent than the 3 percent to 4 percent
historical averages, Gross added.  The Total Return Fund has returned 0.96 percent in the past
year, beating 18 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the fund has
returned 7.8 percent on average, topping 97 percent of rival
funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  