-- 
Portuguese Builders Must Merge to Survive, Association Says

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-03T13:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/portuguese-builders-must-merge-to-survive-association-says.html
Portuguese builders need to merge if
they want to succeed abroad and escape a slump in the local
economy, the head of the country’s biggest construction industry
association said today.  “There is no alternative,” Ricardo Pedrosa Gomes,
president of the Association for Public Works and Construction
said in a telephone interview.  “The banking sector, which has loaned large sums of money
to the building sector, is interested in seeing some mergers,”
Gomes said, without saying how he got this information.  With  Portugal ’s economy expected to contract in 2011 and
2012 amid deep government spending cuts to comply with a $78-
billion-euro bailout from the European Union and the
International Fund, Portuguese companies are flocking to the
former colonies of  Angola  and  Brazil  for growth. Gomes estimates
that, on average, four building companies declare bankruptcy in
Portugal every day.  Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
company in terms of market value, and smaller rival Soares da
Costa SGPS SA, already have operations in Angola. Both companies
have said they were looking to increase their presence in Brazil
through acquisitions.  “We need to venture abroad. But to succeed, our biggest
companies need to merge to gain weight,” Gomes said. “There
are no prospects for the domestic market.”  Brazil, which will host soccer’s 2014  World Cup  and 2016
summer Olympics, will grow by 3.8 percent in 2011 and 3.6
percent the following year, according to the IMF’s  World
Economic Outlook  published last month.  Angola, rebuilding from a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002, is expected to expand by 3.7 percent this year and 10.8
percent in 2012, the IMF predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  