-- 
Pound Weakens, Gilts Rise on Bets PMI Data Insufficient to Stop Further QE

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/pound-weakens-gilts-rise-on-bets-pmi-data-insufficient-to-stop-further-qe.html
The pound weakened against the dollar
for a second day and gilts rallied as traders judged a surprise
expansion of U.K. manufacturing as insufficient to keep the  Bank
of England  from providing further stimulus for the economy.  Sterling depreciated against 11 of its 16 major peers. A
gauge of manufacturing rose to 51.1 from 49.4 in August, a
survey by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  showed. That was higher than the 48.5
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey and above the 50 level
that indicates expansion. Gilts rose, pushing 30-year yields
down to a record, after  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the U.K.’s
AAA credit rating and said the outlook is stable.  “Certain bits of data might come out a bit more positive,
but the overall outlook for the U.K. economy isn’t very good,”
said Shant Movsesian, a strategist in  London  at 4Cast Ltd., a
research company that counts central banks among its customers.
“More quantitative easing is the only way forward. Sterling has
already taken a big hit, but pound-dollar can still go lower.”  The pound declined 0.8 percent to $1.5464 at 4:26 p.m. in
London, and slid 1.3 percent to 118.57 yen. Sterling was little
changed at 85.78 pence per euro.  The yield on the 10-year gilt dropped eight basis points to
2.35 percent. The 3.75 percent security due September 2021 rose
0.735, or 7.35 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 112.32.
Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.58 percent.  QE, Inflation  The 30-year bond due December 2040 surged, pushing the
yield down 14 basis points to 3.417 percent, the least since
March 1996 when Bloomberg began compiling the data, before
settling 12 basis points lower at 3.43 percent.  It is becoming “increasingly probable” that another round
of government-bond purchases may be needed to boost the economy,
Bank of England policy makers said in the minutes of its Sept. 8
policy meeting. The central bank has the tools available to
provide additional “monetary loosening” should the economy
continue to deteriorate, Chief Economist Spencer Dale said in an
interview with the  Daily Mail  published on Sept. 29. At the same
time, accelerating inflation means a resumption is not a “no
brainer,” he said.  Inflation in the U.K. increased in August, with consumer
prices increasing 4.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with
4.4 percent in July, the  Office for National Statistics  said on
Sept. 13.  ‘Wealthy, Open’  S&P affirmed the U.K.’s top credit rating saying the
country has a “wealthy, open, and diversified economy,
supported by a well-established political system and
macroeconomic policy framework, which can react quickly to
economic challenges,” according to a statement released today.  The stable outlook on the nation’s debt rating reflects
S&Ps expectation that the government will implement the bulk of
its fiscal austerity program, the statement added.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , speaking
today to the  Conservative Party ’s annual conference in
Manchester, pledged to freeze local taxes for a second year as
the economy falters amid the deepest public spending cuts since
World War II. Osborne also said he would continue with his
deficit-reduction plan, saying low  interest rates  are the best
way to generate growth.  The central bank’s next decision on interest rates and its
bond-purchase program will be on Oct. 6. Policy makers will keep
the benchmark rate at an all-time low of 0.5 percent, according
to all 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Nine of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the Bank of England
will increase its asset-purchase target by at least 50 billion
pounds ($78 billion) from 200 billion pounds, a separate survey
showed.  ‘Buying Into Gilts’  “QE is coming back, possibly this week but almost
certainly by next month,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in
London. “With QE highly likely people are buying into gilts.
The more fundamental flow is also coming from  risk aversion  to
do with the euro-zone debt crisis. People want a safe place to
put their money and gilts are a beneficiary of that trade.”  Sterling fell 2.9 percent against the dollar in the third
quarter as signs of sputtering economic growth and prospects for
more QE curbed weighed on the currency. Gilts returned 8.9
percent in the period, the best quarterly performance since the
fourth quarter of 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  U.K. house prices fell for a fifth month in September and
the pace of decline may increase in coming months, property
researcher Hometrack Ltd. said in a report today. The average
cost of a home slipped 0.1 percent from August and was down 3.5
percent from a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  