-- 
Pound Weakens Before Report That May Show September Manufacturing Shrank

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-03T07:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/pound-falls-before-report-that-may-show-manufacturing-shrank.html
The pound weakened and gilts rose
before a report that is predicted to show U.K. manufacturing
shrank for an eighth consecutive month in September, adding to
the case for further monetary stimulus.  Sterling weakened against 10 of 16 major counterparts,
losing most versus the Japanese yen. A gauge based on a survey
by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  fell to 48.5, from 49 in August, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A level below 50
indicates contraction. The  Bank of England ’s monetary policy
committee meets on Oct. 6 to consider whether to increase its
asset-purchase program, known as quantitative easing.  “Today’s manufacturing PMI data will be the focus, and
that isn’t expected to be particularly positive,” said Adrian Schmidt, a currency strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in London. Gains in the pound this week may be “more difficult
as the MPC meeting on Thursday is seen by some as offering a
potential risk of quantitative easing.”  The pound declined for a second day versus the dollar,
losing 0.3 percent to $1.5534 at 8:38 a.m. in  London . Sterling
was little changed at 85.84 pence per euro and 0.5 percent
weaker at 119.45 yen.  Gilts rose, lowering yields on the 10-year securities by
six basis points to 2.37 percent. Two-year note yields declined
three basis points to 0.55 percent.  BOE Tools  Bank of  England  policy makers said in minutes of last
month’s policy meeting released on Sept. 21 that it is becoming
“increasingly probable” that another round of government-bond
purchases may be needed to stimulate the economy. The central
bank has the tools available to provide additional “monetary
loosening” should the economy continue to deteriorate, Chief
Economist Spencer Dale said in an interview with the  Daily Mail 
published on Sept. 29.  The central bank will also make a decision on  interest
rates  at its Oct. 6 meeting.  U.K. house prices fell for a fifth month in September,
property researcher Hometrack Ltd. said in an e-mailed report
today based on its monthly survey of real-estate agents. The
average cost of a home slipped 0.1 percent from August and was
down 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  