-- 
Carlyle, Hellman & Friedman to Acquire PPD in Deal Valued at $3.9 Billion

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-10-03T20:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ppd-to-be-acquired-for-3-9-billion-in-cash-by-carlyle-hellman-friedman.html
Carlyle Group  and Hellman & Friedman
LLC agreed to buy  Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. (PPDI)  in a
transaction valued at $3.9 billion that shows how it’s gotten
harder to finance leveraged buyouts.  The private-equity firms will pay $33.25 a share for the
Wilmington, North Carolina-based pharmaceutical-research
company, 30 percent more than the Sept. 30 closing price, PPD
said today in a statement. Under the agreement, which has been
approved by PPD’s board, the company can seek rival offers for
30 days, known as a go-shop provision.  The per-share price falls short of the $34 to $35 sought by
PPD, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
negotiations, who asked not to be named because the talks were
private. Carlyle needed to raise equity from Hellman & Friedman
because banks otherwise wouldn’t have provided financing, said
two people familiar with the deal. PPD said the buyout had
committed debt funding from Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG.  “I’m relieved that they got a deal done and were able to
come to a conclusion on price,”  David Windley , an analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc. in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a
telephone interview. “That the price was at the lower end of
the forecast range is driven by challenges in financing
market.”  Exclusive Negotiations  Carlyle, based in  Washington , had been in exclusive talks
with PPD since at least August, five people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time. It had topped bids from companies
including Blackstone Group LP and KKR & Co., with most offers at
that time between $33 a share and $38 a share, according to the
people.  Since August, equity markets have fallen and LBO financing
costs have increased. Elizabeth Kuronen, a spokeswoman for PPD,
didn’t respond to questions about the deal’s purchase price.  The value of global LBOs in the third quarter fell 33
percent to $23.2 billion from the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, amid signs that banks were hesitant
to finance deals because of uncertainty surrounding  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in U.S. economic growth.  Buyout firms typically use loans secured on the targets
they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase price and
cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek to
improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand them
before selling them within about five years.  PPD rose $6.62, or 26 percent, to $32.28 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had fallen 5.5 percent
this year through Sept. 30, compared with the decline of 14
percent by the S&P 400 Midcap Index.  Founder’s Stake  The acquisition matches the value of Carlyle’s $3.9 billion
buyout of telecommunications-equipment maker CommScope Inc. in
October 2010. Both are the biggest deals announced by the firm
since 2006. Carlyle, which has announced deals valued at $24.1
billion in the last 12 months, is selling old investments and
entering new ones as it plans to go public.  Founded by Fred Eshelman, PPD provides research and
development services for drugmakers, biotechnology companies,
medical-device manufacturers and government organizations,
according to its website. The company has offices in 44
countries and employs more than 11,000 people. Eshelman owned
6.5 percent of PPD’s common stock, making him the largest
shareholder after Wellington Management LP, a Boston-based  money
manager , according to Bloomberg data.  Earnings Multiple  The buyout values PPD at 11.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Bloomberg data
show. That compares with 9.6 times Ebita for Charles River
Laboratories Inc. of Wilmington,  Massachusetts , which helps
customers speed up the discovery and development of
pharmaceuticals.  PPD reported earnings of $127.7 million in 2010 on revenue
of $1.47 billion.  PPD last month named Raymond Hill as chief executive
officer, effective Sept. 16. Hill previously had been at IMS
Health Inc., a provider of medical data, and served as president
of IMS Consulting Group.  Morgan Stanley was PPD’s financial adviser, while Lazard
Ltd. provided a fairness opinion to PPD’s board. Wyrick Robbins
Yates & Ponton LLP and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
acted as legal advisers to the company. Credit Suisse advised
Carlyle and San Francisco-based Hellman & Friedman, while Latham
& Watkins LLP, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Covington &
Burling LLP provided legal counsel to the buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  