-- 
Premier League Risks Blow to BSkyB Broadcasting Rights at EU’s Top Court

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-03T11:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/premier-league-risks-blow-to-bskyb-tv-rights-at-eu-s-top-court.html
English soccer’s Premier League and
European governing body UEFA risk losing part of their revenue
from exclusive television rights sold to broadcasters such as
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in a ruling by the European
Union’s highest court tomorrow.  The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg is set to decide
whether the Premier League’s exclusive regional contracts to
televise its soccer matches are lawful. An adviser to the court
in a non-binding opinion in February said they are not.  The Premier League is home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including  Manchester United , and Liverpool. The
league started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion)
U.K. television contract in August 2010, and receives a further
1.4 billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast
rights.  “The biggest fallout is probably for the Premier League,”
Daniel Geey, a lawyer at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in London.
“Their 1.8 billion pounds contract, of which they’re in the
second year of three, could potentially be deemed illegal and
have to be renegotiated.”  The EU court case was partly triggered by a U.K. dispute
involving Karen Murphy, the owner of the  Red, White and Blue Pub 
in Southsea, close to Portsmouth,  England . She faces a criminal
lawsuit after buying a decoder card that allows her to show
Premier League games from Greek television. BSkyB, the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV operator, said the cards are “illicit” because
they’re being used outside their specified area.  ‘Generations to Come’  Tomorrow’s EU judgment is “going to determine the way in
which broadcasting rights generally, not just live-football, are
marketed in the EU for generations to come,” Paul Dixon,
Murphy’s lawyer, said in a phone interview.  The EU court follows its advisers’ opinions most of the
time.  While there’s a chance the EU court won’t follow its
adviser’s opinion, there are, from a competition law
perspective, “very, very few sectors in the EU” where absolute
territorial protection is permitted, said Geey.  “At the moment, the majority of the Premier League’s
European money comes from the U.K.,” said Geey. If the decision
goes against them, “it may be they don’t get as much money for
their rights as they’re getting at the moment.”  Geey said the ruling may also deal a blow to European
soccer’s governing body UEFA, which parcels up broadcasting
rights to competitions such as its elite  Champions League  on a
territorial basis.  Champions League  Global broadcast rights to the competition, won by
Barcelona in May, are worth about 1.1 billion euros a year.
Unlike the Premier League, which gets most of its revenue in the
U.K., UEFA’s income is spread more thinly from sales of rights
across the continent.  BSkyB spokesman Matt Beake declined to comment, referring
requests to the Premier League. UEFA didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Broadcasters may benefit from a ruling that restricts
exclusive regional contracts, according to Graham Shear, a
partner in the litigation department of Berwin Leighton Paisner
LLP in London.  “It could be used as a weapon by the broadcasters for a
price negotiation,” said Shear. “It’s in their interest to try
and force down the price they’re paying for those inherent
rights, whilst protecting their own revenue.”  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v Media Protection
Services Limited.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  