-- 
Private-Equity Fund Closings Raise 46% Less in Third Quarter, Preqin Says

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-10-03T19:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/private-equity-fund-closings-raise-46-less-in-third-quarter-preqin-says.html
Private-equity firms closing funds in
the third quarter raised 46 percent less than those in the
previous quarter, according to researcher Preqin Ltd., as
leveraged buyouts decreased and financing became harder.  In the three months ended in September, 97 buyout funds
closed after raising $44.8 billion compared with $82.8 billion
by 175 funds in the second-quarter, said London-based Preqin,
which compiles data on alternative investments. An additional
$42.7 billion was raised last quarter by funds that are
continuing to take commitments, Preqin said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Firms are seeking to raise $706 billion for 1,728 funds
globally, according to Preqin, even as economic uncertainty
resulting from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and volatile stock
markets has stunted recent dealmaking. Announced transactions
last month dropped to $12.6 billion from $29 billion in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. September was also “a
particularly slow month for fund raising,” Preqin said, with
“just $8.9 billion” raised by closing funds.  North American-focused closing funds raised $22.5 billion
last quarter, while those centered on Europe raised $11.3
billion, Preqin said. Closing funds aimed at  Asia  and other
parts of the world gathered $11 billion in the third quarter,
Preqin said.  Average Time Closing  Funds that closed last quarter took an average of 17 months
to finish securing commitments, compared with 20 months in 2010,
Preqin said.  Buyout firms typically use loans secured on the targets
they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase price and
cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek to expand
or improve performance at the companies they acquire before
selling them within about five years.  Private-equity firms get money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to invest it within
five to six years and return it with a profit after about 10
years. Private-equity firms typically charge an annual
management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of the fund,
and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  