-- 
Trade Data, Food Inflation, Manufacturing: India Week Ahead

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-10-03T02:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/trade-data-food-inflation-manufacturing-india-week-ahead.html
India  will release trade data for the
month of August today, while the weekly food price inflation
figures and monthly manufacturing output data are slated later.  India’s export growth slowed in August, according to
figures released last month by  Rahul Khullar , the commerce
ministry’s top bureaucrat. Merchandise exports rose 44.2 percent
to $24.3 billion, Khullar said. That compares with an 81.8
percent jump in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s food inflation accelerated for the first time in
four weeks in the seven days ended Sept. 17 as prices of onions,
potatoes and vegetables climbed, maintaining pressure on the
 Reserve Bank of India  to boost  interest rates . An index
measuring wholesale prices of agricultural products gained 9.13
percent in the period from a year earlier. Data for the week
ending Sept. 24 will be released in New Delhi later this week.  The HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics monthly
purchasing managers’ index for September is due to be released
today. The gauge, a measure of India’s manufacturing output,
stood at 52.6 in August. The Purchasing Managers’ index for
services will be released on Oct. 5. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Indian stocks dropped, completing their worst quarter since
2008, as  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  slid after the cabinet approved a bill
making companies mining coal and other minerals pay for
development of areas where they operate.  Coal India  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the commodity,
lost 5 percent to a six-month low. Coal miners must share 26
percent of their earnings while other miners must pay an amount
equal to the royalty collected by the government for mineral
extraction, according to the bill.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, retreated 1.3
percent in September. The measure has lost 13 percent of its
value in the quarter ended Sept. 30, the most since the three
months ended December 2008, on concern the  Reserve Bank  of
India’s record monetary tightening will slow economic growth and
erode company earnings.  India’s rupee completed the biggest quarterly drop since
2008 on concern investors will sell emerging-market assets as
 Europe ’s policy makers struggle to stem the region’s debt
crisis.  The currency dropped the most in a week on Sept. 29 as
exchange data showed global funds pulled a total $5.6 billion
this month from the stock markets of India,  Indonesia ,  South
Korea ,  Taiwan  and  Thailand .  India’s 10-year bond yield climbed to a two-month high
after the government said on Sept. 29 it will borrow 32 percent
more than planned in the second half of the financial year to
make up for dwindling funds. The yield on the 7.8 percent
securities due April 2021 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 8.44 percent.  The benchmark securities completed five quarters of losses
after the  finance ministry  said it will sell 2.2 trillion rupees
($45 billion) of debt in the six months ending March 31, versus
an earlier plan for 1.67 trillion rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 