-- 
Radiohead Adds Drummer in Rare N.Y.C. Appearance: October Music

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/radiohead-adds-portishead-drummer-in-rare-n-y-c-appearance-october-music.html
The wait was over.  After a three-year absence, Radiohead returned to New York
on Sept. 28th for the first of two sold-out shows. For the 3,000
capacity crowd,  Roseland Ballroom  was intimate by this band’s
standards.  The opener “Bloom,” with its avant-garde rhythms, showed
right away the benefits of the second drummer, as Portishead’s
Clive Deamer joined the U.K. five-piece. Thom Yorke’s haunting
vocals elicited the first of many cheers.  Continuing with material from the eighth studio album,
“The King of Limbs,” Yorke danced to the clanking beat of
“Little by Little” as tube lights flickered pink. The latest
record sees the band veering away from heavy guitar riffs to
experimental compositions driven by twitchy drumming and
arrangements. All the new material showcased just how much
bigger in sound “The King of Limbs” is when performed live.  Whooshy synth and drum-pad effects took us through the
unreleased new number “Staircase.” Then Yorke told Deamer he
could take a break as the band moved into “Weird
Fishes/Arpeggi” from the previous album, “In Rainbows.”
Drummer Phil Selway and guitarist Jonny Greenwood were enough to
whip the attentive crowd into a frenzy.  After a piano was rolled to center stage, Yorke went into
“Subterranean Homesick Alien” from the stellar “OK
Computer.” Every face seemed stuck in a delighted grin.  One for R.E.M.  As a tribute to the recently disbanded R.E.M., the guys
played an impromptu version of “The One I Love” before the
keys moved into “Everything in Its Right Place.” The crowd was
in full dance mode.  With Yorke announcing, “This one’s called ‘Myxomatosis,’”
screams erupted for the heavy tune with muffled keys and
pulsating beat. The stop-you-cold piano ballad “Codex” from
“The King of Limbs” gave the crowd a chance to rest, then came
a steam-building version of “The  Daily Mail ” that had
Greenwood thrashing his axe by the song’s end.  The main set closed with “Reckoner,” which proved that
Yorke is only human. About a minute in, he realized he was out
of sync and had the band stop. “I am wrong,” he said, and then
smoothly rejoined the song where they had left off. It was a
laugh for the band and crowd.  Yorke and Jonny Greenwood returned to the stage for “Give
Up the Ghost,” a stripped-down and subdued song on the new
album. Yorke’s vocals were looped as a programmed beat played
below his acoustic guitar and Greenwood’s electric.  The breather was over when Colin Greenwood played the
opening bass line to the classic “The National Anthem.” They
wrapped up with a jittery “Morning Mr. Magpie.”  Last Surprise  But there was one last surprise.  With house lights up and some heading for the exits, the
band returned after five minutes for the eerie crowd favorite
“Street Spirit (Fade Out).” Yorke’s vocals on the finale,
“Nude,” raised the hair on my arms. And then it was over.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in October.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 