-- 
Rajaratnam Opposes U.S. Request to Unseal Data About His Medical Record

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/rajaratnam-opposes-request-to-make-medical-information-public.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund
manager convicted of directing a massive insider-trading ring,
opposed a government request to unseal data about his medical
condition, claiming it would only fuel a “media feeding
frenzy.”  The public has no right to the information submitted to the
court in a bid for leniency, Rajaratnam’s lawyers, led by  John Dowd , argued in papers filed in  Manhattan  federal court today.
Rajaratnam is to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell Oct. 13  “The idea that Mr. Rajaratnam’s interest in keeping his
medical conditions private must yield to the public’s prurient
interest in such intimate details is absurd,” the lawyers
wrote. “No defendant should be forced to choose between
providing the court with medical information relevant to
sentencing and making himself the subject to a salacious and
morbid media feeding frenzy.”  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May on all 14 criminal
counts against him. Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million by
trading with inside information in 11 stocks, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies
Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Sentence Request  The government is urging Holwell to give Rajaratnam, the
co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years in
prison. Rajaratnam’s lawyers, calling the government’s proposal
“grotesquely severe,” asked for a sentence “substantially
below” that.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
declined to comment on the court filing.  Prosecutors argued in papers filed with the court last week
that the public has a First Amendment right to the information,
which has been sealed by Holwell.  The government asked the judge to make public a letter
Rajaratnam’s lawyers sent to him arguing for leniency based on
his medical condition, a doctor’s declaration describing
Rajaratnam’s illnesses, declarations from the director of a
nonprofit criminal justice organization and a former Bureau of
Prisons employee and two letters from Rajaratnam’s doctors to
the judge. Prosecutors are also seeking to unseal a declaration
they filed by a doctor for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons and two
declarations sent by Rajaratnam in response.  ‘Serious Medical Problems’  In a memorandum filed with Holwell Aug. 9, Rajaratnam’s
lawyers argued that the judge should consider unspecified
“serious medical problems present to an unusual degree” in
determining the sentence. Rajaratnam hasn’t disclosed the nature
of any illnesses he’s using to argue for a lower sentence.  During jury deliberations in the trial, Holwell excused
Rajaratnam from the court during part of jury deliberations,
without disclosing any reason for his absence. Rajaratnam’s
lawyers later released a statement saying he had emergency foot
surgery to treat a bacterial infection.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 