-- 
Treasury Two-Year Break-Even Rate Distorted by Twist, Pond Says

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-03T19:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/treasury-two-year-break-even-rate-distorted-by-twist-pond-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to sell
shorter-term inflation-indexed debt and buy longer-term
securities is distorting a gauge of inflation, according to
Barclays Plc’s Michael Pond.  The difference in yield between two-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of inflation over the
life of the debt known as the break-even rate, has narrowed to
1.03 percentage points from 1.40 percentage points on Sept. 21,
when the Fed announced the program known as Operation Twist. The
10-year break-even rate has narrowed to 1.74 percentage points
from 1.86 percentage points during the same period.  “The Fed is distorting the shorter-dated break-evens and
thus distorting inflation expectations there,” Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy at Barclays in  New York , said in a phone
interview. “If Fed officials mistake lower break-evens for
lower inflation expectations, it may lead to additional
stimulus, which would be a policy mistake.” As one of the 20
primary dealers, Barclays trades with the Fed.  The central bank plans to buy $1 billion to $1.5 billion of
TIPS maturing from January 2018 to February 2041 on Oct. 5 and
sell the same amount of inflation-indexed debt due from April
2012 to July 2014 on Oct. 17.  The Fed bought today $2.5 billion of nominal Treasuries
maturing between February 2036 and August 2041 in the first
operation of its replacement of $400 billion of shorter-term
nominal debt and TIPS in its portfolio with longer-term
securities to reduce borrowing costs.  Bullard on Inflation  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said last week in  San
Diego  that the central bank is prepared to ease policy should
the  U.S. economy  weaken, while watching inflation risks.  “Outright asset purchases are a potent tool and must be
employed carefully,” said Bullard, citing the increase in
inflation and inflation expectations during the past year. The
central bank “still has to judge tradeoffs between inflation
and support for the recovery,” he said.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference is known as the break-even rate.  The annual inflation rate in 2011 will be 3 percent,
according to the median forecast of 63 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in debt in two
rounds of what is known as quantitative easing to keep borrowing
costs for companies and consumers low. The target rate for
overnight lending between banks has stayed at a record low zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  