-- 
Record Projects Test UN CO2 Market Capacity as Future in Doubt

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-03T16:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/record-projects-test-un-co2-market-capacity-as-future-in-doubt.html
A record inflow of projects into the
world’s biggest greenhouse gas market threatens to swamp
auditors who validate these activities, and they may be forced
to reject business, said an industry group.  “I think the next 12 months will test the capacity” of
audit firms, said Jonathan Hall, president of the Designated
Operational Entities and Independent Entities Association. So-
called DOEs are auditors that check that emission-reduction
projects in developing nations comply with rules before and
after getting greenhouse gas credits. “I don’t think there are
any DOEs that are refusing validations” though that might
happen, said Hall.  A record of at least 592 projects entered the validation
stage of the Clean Development Mechanism program in the three
months ended last week, about 14 percent of all projects seeking
registration under the program of the 1997  Kyoto Protocol .
Almost 3,000 projects have already been approved since the
program started. Emission reduction projects are seeking
registration by the end of next year because of a deadline
imposed by the European Union, whose factories and power
stations are the main buyers of credits.  The credits are important because they are used to slash
compliance costs in the EU, one of the only regions in the world
with mandatory carbon constraints. A German coal-burning power
utility can make a profit of 7.21 euros ($9.62) a megawatt hour
in 2013 using EU carbon allowances. By using cheaper CDM
credits, that profit jumps 36 percent to 9.81 euros, according
to a so-called clean-dark-spread calculator on Bloomberg.  ‘There’s a Concern’  UN CDM credits, known as Certified Emission Reductions, for
December delivery dropped 3.4 percent today to 7.58 euros a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They’ve
fallen 34 percent this year. EU carbon allowances fell 5.1
percent to 10.19 euros.  “I’m aware that there’s a concern” about the ability of
the program to meet demand from projects through 2012, said
Martin Hession, chairman of the CDM executive board, the market
regulator based in Bonn. “There’s been discussions about what
we need to do.”  The board has sought more information from the audit firms
on the number of project validations planned and resources
available and one option was a “more flexible assessment
approach,” Hession said, without being more specific. “From an
administrative point of view, I think we are fine.”  How busy next year becomes depends in part on what happens
at climate talks in November and December this year in Durban,
 South Africa , said Hall, who is head of the global  climate
change  program at SGS SA. Other audit firms include Det Norske
Veritas Ltd., Tuev Sued and  Bureau Veritas SA. (BVI)   Program Future  Some developing nations may boost the risks for investors
in the market by preventing an orderly extension beyond 2012,
Climate Change Capital Ltd. said last week.  Some nations, especially small countries not receiving
money from selling CDM credits, may be tempted to vote against
proposals to extend the market, said Steven Gray, a policy
expert at the London fund manager who helps represent investors
at UN climate talks.  “It’s highly unlikely that the CDM will stop,” Gray said
today by phone. Still, there’s enough uncertainty surrounding
the future of the program that investors may start to hold back
spending, and service providers to the market may find it
difficult to keep hiring the people needed to approve projects.  CERs can be used to a limited extent by power stations and
factories to comply with caps on greenhouse gas emissions under
the EU’s carbon market, the world’s biggest, and the New Zealand
trading system. They can also be used by nations who exceed
targets in the Kyoto agreement.  Bargaining Chip  Developing nations are using the CDM as a bargaining chip
in negotiations, Gray said, citing a document published in
August after a meeting of developing-nation environment
ministers in  Brazil .  China , the biggest seller of CDM credits,
and  India  were among nations represented at the meeting.  The ministers “stressed that the continuation of the
flexibility mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol, in particular the
CDM, is contingent upon the establishment of quantified
emission-reduction commitments” by developed nations under a
second commitment period of the protocol. Kyoto has targets
applied to 37 rich nations for the five years through 2012.  The audit firms, which carry out checks to make sure
projects are not overestimating greenhouse-gas reductions, may
struggle to justify spending more on technical staff over the
next five years, Gray said. Companies will have less incentive
to come up with new methodologies for cutting  greenhouse gases ,
he said. “It’s difficult to take investment decisions under the
current environment.”  Cookstove Distribution  Hession last week called for “dialogue” with nations and
investors on how the CDM should be adjusted to take advantage of
its ability to deliver finance for sustainable development in
emerging nations. He cited the program’s success in distributing
“tens of thousands” of fuel-efficient cookstoves in a few
years, after other programs achieved “only limited
penetration,” according to a statement from the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change.  Should climate negotiators fail to sort out the
uncertainty, there’s a possibility the rush over the next year
or so will be less intense than expected, said Hall. “I don’t
think anyone will say it’s not going to be busy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  