-- 
Record U.S. Gasoline Exports Help Drive 17% Gain in Tanker Rates: Freight

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-10-04T12:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/record-u-s-gasoline-cargoes-seen-driving-17-tanker-rate-advance-freight.html
Record U.S. exports of gasoline and
other refined oil products are poised to eliminate a glut of
ships hauling the fuels next year, driving freight rates to a
three-year high.  Shipments in the first nine months were 24 percent higher
than a year earlier, led by cargoes to  Latin America , Energy
Department data show. Costs to hire medium-range tankers,
holding enough gasoline to fill about 800,000 cars, will gain 17
percent to $14,000 a day next year, according to the median of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. nine-month crude-oil output rose 1.7 percent, the
highest for the period since 2003. Gasoline demand fell 3.7
percent in July to the lowest for the month in 11 years. At a
time when ships hauling crude and coal are forecast to lose
money for at least another two years, product tankers may break
even as early as 2012. Billionaire Wilbur Ross completed his
first shipping investment last month, joining a group of
investors buying a fleet of 30 fuel carriers.  “We’ve seen a fundamental shift in the trading of oil
products to and from the U.S. over the past three to four
years,” said Thomas Zwick, an Oslo-based analyst at Lorentzen &
Stemoco A/S, a shipping consultant. “That’s been a huge help to
ship owners. It’s given small-tanker markets moderate gains
rather than catastrophic losses since the financial crisis.”  Eight Times Bigger  Rates for medium-range tankers averaged $10,617 a day this
year, 9 percent more than in 2010, according to data from the
London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes assessments for
more than 50 maritime routes. Rents will average $12,000 this
year, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Supertankers, which are as much as eight times bigger,
earned a daily average of $689 this year. Capesizes, carrying
coal and  iron ore , averaged $11,593 a day, down 65 percent from
last year, bourse data show.  The surge in U.S. exports is also boosting earnings on the
Europe-U.S. route, the industry’s benchmark. More vessels that
used to sail back across the Atlantic empty after delivering
cargoes to the U.S. are now getting consignments on the return
leg and to Latin America, said Nikolaj Kamedula, an analyst at
SEB Enskilda in Copenhagen. Rates on the route rose fourfold in
two weeks to $11,496, Baltic Exchange data show.  Gulf Coast Exports  Exports from the Gulf Coast are driving the expansion in
U.S. cargoes. Refineries in the Midwest sent 22 percent more
gasoline and other refined products to the  Gulf Coast  this year
than in 2010, Energy Department data show. Benchmark West Texas
Intermediate crude traded yesterday at a 23 percent discount to
Brent, the grade used by refineries in Europe. A U.S. refinery
now makes $27.44 from refining a barrel of crude into gasoline,
compared with $4.44 in Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. gasoline demand fell 1 percent to 8.96 million barrels
a day in July, the lowest for the month since 2000, Energy
Department data show. Regular-grade gasoline averaged $3.417 a
gallon at gas stations as of Oct. 2, from as much as $3.985 on
May 4, data from the American Automobile Association show.  Refined-product shipments to Latin America from the U.S.
and  Europe  jumped by about 50 percent from July to September,
according to Tina Revsbech, head of tankers at Hellerup,
Denmark-based Torm A/S, which operates about 140 tankers. The
surge is increasing voyage lengths and reducing the number of
vessels competing for cargoes.  Drilling Wells  Gains in charter rates for medium-range tankers, each about
179 meters (590 feet) long, may be curbed by slowing economic
growth. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its world growth
forecasts to 4 percent for this year and next on Sept. 20,
compared with earlier respective estimates of 4.3 percent and
4.5 percent. About $12 trillion was wiped off the value of
equities since May on mounting concern economies will tip back
into recession.  In 2008, during the worst global recession since World War
II, gasoline demand slipped 0.6 percent, the first retreat in
more than a quarter century, according to London-based BP Plc.
Consumption of all refined products fell in 2008 and 2009,
curbing demand for tankers.  U.S. oil output may also slow as prices drop. Crude traded
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange slumped 34 percent from a 2
1/2-year high of $114.83 a barrel in May. There were 2,922 wells
being drilled for exploration or development in August, 74
percent more than a year earlier and the most since 1986, Energy
Department data show.  Order Book  The average of $14,000 a day for medium-range ships
predicted for next year in the Bloomberg survey would still
leave some tankers close to break even. The vessels need about
$13,800 a day to cover operating and financing costs, according
to accountant Moore Stephens International Ltd. and ICAP
Shipping International Ltd. Breakeven rates vary by company and
fleet depending on vessel ages and purchase terms.   Shares of Torm plunged 82 percent in Copenhagen trading
this year, heading for the worst annual performance in 16 years.
It will report a loss of $147.2 million this year and won’t make
money until at least 2014, the mean of as many as nine analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  All eight analysts covering Monaco-based  Scorpio Tankers
Inc. (STNG)  recommend buying the shares. Scorpio, which began trading
in March 2010, will report a loss of $7.43 million this year and
profit of $6.1 million in 2012, according to the mean of five
estimates. The shares dropped 51 percent this year. Shipments
from the U.S. are helping to offset the effects of a decline in
European gasoline exports across the Atlantic, Scorpio president
Robert Bugbee said by phone today.  Transport Costs  Rates for medium-range tankers are also rising because
there is a smaller glut of vessels than in supertankers or
capesizes. There are 1,500 of the vessels and the total order
book at shipyards worldwide comes to 11 percent of the existing
fleet, according to Fearnley Consultants A/S. That compares with
16 percent for supertankers and 30 percent for capesizes,
according to Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay.  Supertankers on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan route will make no more than $13,818 a day through the end
of 2013, according to annual forward freight agreements, traded
by brokers and used to bet on future transport costs. Frontline
Ltd., the biggest operator of the vessels, says it needs $29,800
to break even. Capesizes require about $20,000, and annual rates
won’t exceed that level until at least 2017, according to FFA
data from the  Baltic Exchange .  Ross, the billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL
Ross & Co., and his co-investors spent $900 million on product
tankers. Shipping may be “relatively close” to a bottom, he
said in an August interview. Transactions across the “highly
fragmented” industry will probably accelerate, Ross said at the
Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York on Sept. 27.  “There’s such a negative sentiment about the shipping
industry as a whole that the whole sector is getting flushed,”
said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in
New York. “Product tanker owners should be an exception to that
because the extra U.S. shipments to Latin America have helped
the vessels to outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  