-- 
Nobel Shared by Steinman, Beutler, Hoffmann for Research on Immune System

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e ,   R e g   G a l e   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-10-03T18:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/rockefeller-s-steinman-shares-2011-medicine-nobel-with-hoffmann-beutler.html
Three scientists won the  Nobel Prize 
in medicine for research illuminating how the body’s immune
system recognizes infection and marshals an attack against it,
an award made three days after one of the men died.  Jules A. Hoffmann, born in  Luxembourg , and Bruce A. Beutler, an American, will share half the  10 million-kronor 
($1.5 million) award for studying gene mutations that helped
explain how the body activates its first line of defense against
microscopic invaders, the Nobel Assembly said today in a
 statement . Ralph M. Steinman, born in  Canada , died at age 68
before learning he would receive the award for research into
cells that regulate and adapt the defense mechanisms.  The Nobel Foundation said Steinman remains a Nobel winner
even though he died on Sept. 30, before the announcement was made. 
It had been an issue because the foundation bars the award from
being given posthumously. The committee wasn’t aware of his
death when the prize was announced, it said in a statement.  “The events that have occurred are unique, and, to the
best of our knowledge, are unprecedented in the history of the
Nobel Prize,” the foundation said in a  statement  on its
web site. “The decision to award the Nobel Prize to Ralph 
Steinman was made in good faith based on the assumption that 
the Nobel Laureate was alive.”  The three scientists’ research provided a basis for better
vaccines against infections and also for new drugs that harness
the immune system to fight cancer, the assembly said. The first
of such so-called therapeutic cancer vaccines,  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s
Provenge, won approval in the U.S. last year.  Cancer Therapy  Diagnosed with pancreatic cancer four years ago, Steinman
extended his life using an immunotherapy he had designed
himself, New York-based Rockefeller University, where Steinman
was a professor of cellular physiology and immunology,  said 
today in a statement on its website.  Steinman was the only patient in a trial of the
experimental therapy, and was treated at the university, Joseph Bonner, a Rockefeller spokesman, said in a telephone interview.
His death hadn’t been publicly announced before today, Bonner
said.  Beutler, born in Chicago, is a professor of genetics and
immunology at  The Scripps Research Institute  in  La Jolla ,
 California . The 53-year-old, who received his medical doctorate
from the University in  Chicago  in 1981, said today that he is
returning to work at the  University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center  in  Dallas .  ‘One Gene at a Time’  “My idea right from the beginning, I guess, was to
dismantle the immune system one gene at a time so we could track
the mutations that cause problems,” Beutler said in an
interview by mobile phone today. Beutler said it’s
“incredible” to win a Nobel with Hoffman, and with Steinman,
whom he met as a young scientist at Rockefeller University.  “I woke up in the middle of the night, and glanced at my
cell phone, and the first thing I saw was a message line that
just said the words ’Nobel Prize,’” he said. “Needless to say,
I grabbed it and started looking at messages. Wow.”  Hoffmann, 70, earned his doctorate from the University of
Strasbourg in  France  and led a research laboratory there from
1974 to 2009. He has French citizenship.  “I didn’t think our contribution would lead to a Nobel
Prize,” Hoffmann told reporters by telephone from  Shanghai 
during a press conference in Paris. “We worked on this for 40
years.”  Hoffman, whose mobile phone wasn’t working today, said he
found out about the prize from front desk staff at his Shanghai
hotel, who contacted him after being flooded with calls from
reporters.  Mouse Experiments  Working separately with fruit flies and mice, he and
Beutler found that the two types of animals use similar
molecules to switch on innate immunity, destroying invading
bacteria, fungi and viruses and initiating the inflammation that
helps block their attack, according to the Nobel statement.  “The sensors of innate immunity had finally been
discovered,” the prize committee said. That “triggered an
explosion of research.”  Born in  Montreal  in 1943, Steinman studied medicine at
 Harvard University  and received his medical doctorate in 1968.  The Canadian researcher discovered the dendritic cell in
1973, the Nobel committee said. Steinman found that the presence
of these cells stirred “vivid responses” in the body’s
infection-fighting T-cells, the Nobel committee said. Dendritic
cells can sense signals from the innate immune reaction, making
it possible for the immune system to mobilize T-cells and thwart
invaders without attacking the body, Steinman’s research showed.  ‘In the Spotlight’  “These discoveries helped to better understand the immune
system’s reactions that lead to the eradication of a virus, of
cancer cells or of bacteria,” Vincent Serra, chief executive
officer of France’s  Wittycell SAS , which is developing
ingredients to boost vaccines’ effectiveness, said in a
telephone interview. “The companies developing products
associated to these discoveries are extremely numerous. They are
in the spotlight today.”  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., based in  New York , won approval
for ipilimumab for melanoma in March. Other companies aiming to
follow Provenge onto the therapeutic cancer vaccine market
include  Oncothyreon Inc. (ONTY)  and German drugmaker  Merck KGaA (MRK)  with
Stimuvax for breast and lung malignancies, and the U.K.’s  Oxford
BioMedica Plc (OXB) , with TroVax for prostate, kidney and colorectal
cancers.  Laying the Groundwork  “For once the Nobel committee caught this epochal
discovery in its early days,” Martin Murphy, chief executive
officer of AlphaMed Consulting, who has four decades of health
and cancer research experience and has met all three Nobel
winners, said in a telephone interview today. “Their research
has laid the groundwork for immunotherapy as we know it today.”  Last year’s Nobel prize in medicine went to Robert G.
Edwards, a former University of Cambridge professor, for
developing in-vitro fertilization.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The  Nobel Foundation  was established in 1900, and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  An economics prize was created in memory of Nobel by the
Swedish central bank. Only the peace prize is awarded outside
 Sweden , by the five-member Norwegian Nobel Committee in Oslo.  The Nobel Prize in Physics will be announced tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  