-- 
Romanian Central Bank Said to Sell Euros to Prop Currency

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-10-03T14:38:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/romanian-central-bank-said-to-sell-euros-to-prop-currency-1-.html
The Romanian leu rebounded from its
weakest in 15 months against the euro, raising speculation the
country’s central bank sold euros to support the currency.  The leu gained as much as 1.4 percent, its biggest intraday
advance since January 2009, and traded 1.1 percent stronger at
4.3130 per euro as of 5:11 p.m. in Bucharest today, after the
central bank sold euros through two banks, said three traders
from Bucharest-based banks, who declined to be identified
because of company policy. Central bank spokesman Mugur Stet
declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Romania ’s central bank, which has a managed leu floating
policy, probably sold euros to damp inflationary pressures
stemming from a weaker local currency and protect leu-earning
citizens, who hold about 60 percent of total mortgages in the
common currency, the traders and Nordea Bank AB’s Elisabeth Andreew said today.  “There have been rumors that the central bank may come in
around the 4.35 level and in the absence of other news, maybe
the central bank has been there,” Andreew said. “Foreign-
exchange loans are one problem and maybe they’re also afraid of
rising inflationary pressure again.”  Eastern European central banks are seeking to balance the
risks of slower growth in western  Europe , the main importer of
eastern goods, and weaker currencies as investors cut exposure
to emerging-market assets.  Polish Sales  Poland ’s central bank sold currencies for the second
consecutive day to bolster the zloty as the bank moved to prop
up the currency for the first time in at least a decade on Sept.
23 and stepped onto the market again a week later.  The currency sales came after Governor  Marek Belka  warned
last month that the zloty is getting out of sync with Poland’s
“healthy fundamentals,” making it harder for policy makers to
control inflation. Central bank officials will meet to set
 interest rates  on Oct. 4-5.  Romanian policy makers have kept interest rates stable
since June 2010 as they assess the impact of the global slowdown
and fading effect of a tax increase on prices.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the main rate for an
11th meeting on Sept. 29 at 6.25 percent, the EU’s highest, in a
decision that was expected by all 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. It also left its minimum  reserve requirements  on
foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  