-- 
Roubini Says Europe Needs €2 Trillion ‘Bazooka’

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-10-03T07:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/roubini-says-europe-needs-2-trillion-euro-bazooka-for-crisis.html
Europe must raise the amount of funds
it has earmarked to arrest its fiscal crisis and deploy a 2
trillion-euro ($2.7 trillion) “bazooka” before time runs out,
said  Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  “I’m very concerned of things getting out of control,”
Roubini said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Dubai office
yesterday. “You need a huge bazooka of at least 2 trillion
euros, but you can’t wait three months. You have to do it in the
next few weeks.”  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., financial shares in Europe are under assault and the cost
of insuring bank debt is at records as the global recovery
falters and the euro-region crisis weighs on the economy.  The euro dropped to an eight-month low against the dollar
before European finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg today
will grapple with how to shield banks from the debt crisis and
mull a further boost to the region’s rescue fund.  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.3327 as of 12:07 p.m. in
 Tokyo . Stocks retreated, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
dropping 2.9 percent.  Today’s meeting, starting at 5 p.m., was the original
target date for approving an 8 billion-euro loan payment to
Greece, the sixth installment of the 110 billion-euro lifeline
put together at the start of the crisis in May 2010. That
decision has been delayed until mid-October as Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  seeks to shore up the budget.  ‘Big Elephants’  The Greek government said yesterday it approved 6.6 billion
euros of austerity measures designed to help secure a rescue-
loan payout and a second European Union-led bailout.  “Even if you have a debt reduction, that’s not going to
restore growth unless you have a change in real exchange rates
through a depreciation and you go back to national currencies,”
Roubini said.  Europe ’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to extinguish the Greek crisis while insulating Italy and
 Spain  and coming up with a formula for banks that the
 International Monetary Fund  says face as much as 300 billion
euros in credit risks.  “The problem isn’t that Greece is insolvent, but that the
fact of having two big elephants in the room - Italy and
Spain,” Roubini said. “They’re too big to fail but also too
big to save. Even if they are illiquid, but solvent given
austerity reform, they’ve already lost market credibility.”  There is a risk of a “self-fulfilling run” on their
government debt, Roubini said.  ‘Massive Steps’  “The steps that need to be taken to avoid a dissolvent
situation are massive,” said Roubini, a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business.  Among the measures needed to resolve the European crisis is
an easing of European Central Bank policy and rates, a lowering
in the value of the euro, a recapitalization of European banks
and an “orderly process to allow the exit of  Greece  from the
 euro zone ,” Roubini said. There also needs to be fiscal
stimulus at the core of the euro zone to avoid a recession for
all European countries.  “What is the likelihood of all of these things occurring
in a coherent, consistent and realistic way to avoid the mess?”
he asked. “I think it’s a low probability because of the
political constraints.”  The European debt crisis could have consequences that would
be “worse” than the collapse of Lehman Brothers, he said.  Roubini predicted the bubble in U.S. housing prices before
the market peaked in 2006. His forecasts haven’t all been
accurate. When the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to a 12-year
low on March 9, 2009, he said it probably would drop to 600 or
lower by the end of that year. Instead, the U.S. equity
benchmark gained 65 percent for the rest of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  