-- 
Rupee Declines a Second Day on Deficit, Global Growth Concerns

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-03T12:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/rupee-drops-most-in-a-week-on-deficit-global-growth-concerns.html
India ’s rupee dropped for a second
day after data showed the current-account deficit widened and as
concern about the global economic outlook curbed demand for
emerging-market assets.  Overseas investors cut their holdings of Indian equities by
$626 million in the week through Sept. 28, exchange data show.
India’s current-account shortfall widened to $14.1 billion in
the April-June period from $5.4 billion the prior quarter, the
central bank said on Sept. 30. The local  currency market  was
shut that day as banks were closing their half-yearly accounts.  “The lack of capital inflows continues to weigh on the
rupee,” Barclays Capital economists including Siddhartha Sanyal, who is based in Mumbai, wrote in a report published
today. “The outlook for portfolio flows remains muted for the
coming quarters as well” and the current-account deficit may be
about 2.6 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
ending March 2012, he wrote.  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 49.1575 per dollar at the
5 p.m. close in  Mumbai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It fell 8.7 percent last quarter, the biggest drop since 1992.  The decline in the rupee in “so short a time” is a
concern that reflects volatility in global financial markets,
 Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said Sept.
26. The central bank would consider intervening to smooth market
moves if exchange-rate swings are judged disruptive, he said.  Greek Debt  European finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg today will
grapple with how to shield banks from the debt crisis and mull a
further boost to the region’s rescue fund. The Greek government
said yesterday it approved 6.6 billion euros ($8.8 billion) of
austerity measures. U.S. factory output grew last month at the
slowest pace since July 2009, a report today may show, while the
Tankan survey showed sentiment among  Japan ’s largest
manufacturers remains worse than before the March earthquake.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 49.93 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.88 on Sept. 30. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  