-- 
Russian Manufacturing Faces ‘Lasting Stagnation’ After Decline, HSBC Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-03T10:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/russian-manufacturing-stagnated-in-september-hsbc-says.html
Russian manufacturing stalled last
quarter as foreign demand for the country’s goods weakened,
threatening the government’s plan to lift economic growth.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose last month to a
seasonally adjusted 50 from 49.9 in August,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said today, citing  data  compiled by London-based Markit
Economics. The average of 49.9 in July-September was the lowest
since the fourth quarter of 2009 and contrasted with the post-
crisis high of 54.8 for the first three months of 2011, HSBC
said.  “Russian manufacturers face lasting stagnation,”
 Alexander Morozov , HSBC’s chief economist for  Russia , said in
the statement. “In seasonally adjusted terms, demand weakness
has become more and more apparent, especially as far as external
demand is concerned.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing growth in the U.S. have
raised concern that the global economy will weaken, reducing
demand for Russian exports of energy and metals. The  trade
surplus  narrowed in July, the last period for which data are
available, as import growth outstripped exports. Manufacturers
faced a slide in new export orders for a third straight month
even as the ruble weakened, HSBC said.  Rail Cargoes  OAO Russian Railways shipped 3 percent more cargo in the
first nine months of the year than in 2010, the state rail
monopoly said today in an e-mailed statement. The annual rate of
growth in cargo volumes slowed in September to 0.6 percent.  Rail shipments are seen as a proxy for changes in output
because railroads account for about 85 percent of the nation’s
cargo transport, excluding pipelines, according to VTB Capital.  “Economic growth in OECD countries has been slowing down
and the recession risk has increased,” Morozov said, referring
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
“The sustainability of external demand in Russia is
predominantly based on demand growth from  China  and other Asian
markets.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for
global growth last month and said commodity prices would decline
in the second half of the year and into 2012. The Russian
government expects the nation’s economy to grow 4.1 percent this
year, faster than the 3.4 percent rate seen in the second-
quarter.  Urals crude, Russia’s main export oil blend, fell 12
percent in September, sparking a 10 percent drop in the ruble
against the dollar. The Russian currency fell 7.1 percent last
month against a dollar-euro basket the central bank uses to
manage swings that harm exporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  