-- 
RWE, EON Keep U.K. Reactor Spending After German Nuclear Ban

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-04T16:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/rwe-eon-keep-spending-on-u-k-reactors-as-germany-scraps-nuclear-plants.html
RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG are pressing ahead
with plans to build new reactors in the U.K. after the German
government ordered the closure of nuclear plants at home.  “We are still recruiting people and spending almost a
million pounds ($1.54 million) every single week,” Volker Beckers, chief executive officer of RWE’s U.K. Npower division,
said in an interview in Bloomberg’s London bureau.  Germany’s largest power producers are two of the six
utilities planning to build nuclear plants in the U.K. Their
Horizon venture has secured two sites in  Wales  and the west of
England with the goal of starting construction of the first
reactor by 2015. A public backlash in  Germany  following the
disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant prompted the
government to announce plans to close all its reactors.  “In Germany, a big proportion is against nuclear power
stations, while here you see an increase in acceptance,”
Beckers said. “For an investor it’s key you invest into a
country where you have a supportive framework: political,
commercial and social. I do see this in the U.K.”  A  Populus poll  of 2,050 people conducted for the British
Science Association in August found that 54 percent of people
support the construction of new nuclear stations if it would
help tackle  climate change , and 61 percent back it if it would
improve  energy security .  Governments React  In the months following the March tsunami in Japan, the
British and French governments reiterated support for atomic
energy, while  Chancellor Angela Merkel  rolled back plans for
reactor life extensions. In March, the German government decided
to shut more than 25 percent of the country’s nuclear capacity
and phase out atomic energy completely by 2022.  Other companies considering building nuclear power stations
in the U.K. include Electricite de France SA and  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA. Britain can currently get about 20
percent of its power from its 10 nuclear stations, five of which
are due to shut over the next decade.  “It makes good business sense to keep the option open,”
UniCredit SpA analyst Lueder Schumacher said in a telephone
interview. “The potential benefits could be huge. They’re not
obvious now, but it wouldn’t be prudent to slam the door shut.
Who knows what things are going to be like in 10 years.”  Eight Sites  Utilities may need to spend as much as 6 billion pounds per
reactor, according to U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry . The
British government approved eight sites for new nuclear plants
in October last year and the country’s nuclear regulator is in
the process of assessing two new designs, Areva SA’s EPR reactor
and Westinghouse Electric Co.’s AP1000 reactor.  “We need to sustain 12 gigawatts of nuclear,” Beckers
said. “We need investments in renewables, we need gas plant as
part of the mix and we need a certain slice of coal plant so we
can manage volatility in commodity prices.”  RWE fell 1.6 percent to 26.805 euros in Frankfurt. The
stock has fallen 46 percent this year, valuing the company at 15
billion euros ($19.9 billion).  Given the track record of reactor projects elsewhere in
 Europe , delays are possible. Electricite de  France  SA will spend
5 billion euros, overrunning an initial estimate of 3.3 billion
euros, to complete the first-of-a-kind EPR reactor at
Flamanville, France. In Finland, Areva SA is behind schedule on
its plant at Olkiluoto, initially meant to be finished in 2009.
It’s now slated for completion by 2013.  Adopting a “cautious approach,” SSE Plc dropped its plans
to pursue construction of a new nuclear plant last month. The
utility, which was partnering with GDF and Iberdrola, cited its
preference for renewable energy technologies like wind farms.
Even before making a final  investment decision , Centrica is
committed to spending 200 million pounds on the development of a
reactor at Hinkley point.  A final report on the implications of the Fukushima
disaster for existing U.K. reactors was submitted by the
country’s chief inspector of nuclear installations Mike
Weightman on Sept. 30. The findings will be presented to
parliament by Energy Secretary Chris Huhne next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  