-- 
S&P Downgrade of U.S. Debt Approved By 67% in Global Poll

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-03T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/s-p-downgrade-of-u-s-debt-approved-by-67-in-global-poll.html
Global investors say that  Standard &
Poor’s  was justified in cutting its rating of U.S. debt on Aug.
5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Sixty-seven percent of those responding backed the decision
by McGraw-Hill Cos.’ S&P to downgrade the U.S. credit rating to
AA+ from AAA, a Bloomberg Global Poll shows. U.S. investors were
less supportive, with 57 percent approving, compared with about
three-fourths of respondents in Europe and  Asia , last week’s
survey of 1,031 Bloomberg subscribers found.  S&P’s move contributed to stock losses that left
shareholders $1 trillion poorer by Aug. 25. The two other large
rating firms, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
retained their top grades of U.S. credit. Since the downgrade,
markets for  U.S. debt  have rallied, with the Merrill Lynch U.S.
Treasury Master Index of U.S. debt up more than 3.3 percent,
about the same as top-rated German  government bonds .  The rating cut drew criticism from the administration of
President  Barack Obama  and from investors including billionaire
 Warren Buffett . John Bellows, acting assistant Treasury
secretary for economic policy, said S&P had made a $2 trillion
“mistake” in its arithmetic and then changed the rationale for
its decision. S&P on Aug. 23 announced it was installing
Citibank NA Chief Operating Officer Douglas Peterson as
president, replacing Deven Sharma who will leave at the end of
the year to “pursue other opportunities.”  Crippled Politics  The downgrade was warranted because of the crippled U.S.
political process, said Otto Dichtl, a banking analyst and
managing director at London-based Knight Capital Europe Ltd.,
who responded to the Bloomberg poll.  “If you debate to the last day whether you default or not,
it’s not a triple-A credit,” Dichtl said.  While most of those polled backed S&P’s downgrade, 35
percent of investors said that overall the grades given by
rating firms aren’t reliable. Only 1 percent called them very
reliable, 18 percent fairly reliable and 45 percent just
somewhat reliable.  “Rating agencies, by and large, don’t really know that
much more than anybody else,” Dichtl said.  Creditworthiness  The quarterly survey of investors, analysts and traders
produced mixed opinions about the safety of U.S. debt. Only 56
percent rated the nation’s creditworthiness as good or excellent,
while the percentage calling a default unlikely rose to 94
percent from 91 percent a year earlier.  By region, U.S. investors were more favorable about U.S.
creditworthiness, with 72 percent rating it good or excellent,
compared with 45 percent of Europeans and 42 percent of Asians.  The political debate and S&P’s downgrade hasn’t undermined
the strength of the dollar,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  told its
clients in a note last week. It also hasn’t hurt the cost of
insuring  U.S. government debt  against default, which has
declined since the downgrade to become cheapest in the Group of
10 nations, according to credit default swaps on  Treasury
securities .  Treasuries  Among those polled, 40 percent said their investment
strategy involves reducing holdings of Treasury bonds, with 10
percent saying they would increase their positions and 31
percent staying put. That’s an improvement over May poll results
in which 47 percent of investors intended to cut their
investments in Treasuries.  The scale of the economy, its rule of law and the fact the
dollar is a reserve currency “help our creditors feel
relatively comfortable holding our debt, which in my mind is the
backbone of good credit,” said William Monness, president and
co-founder of New York-based brokerage DeMatteo Monness LLC, who
was among those rating the creditworthiness as good.  David Costa-Moon, a credit analyst at London-based Wells
Capital Management, was more critical, saying the U.S. suffers
“a relative decline in education standards, underinvestment in
infrastructure and R&D, very high debt levels and an anti-
progress partisan political set-up.”  Costa-Moon plans to reduce his holdings in Treasuries,
saying he sees smaller, “healthier” economies such as in
Nordic countries and some emerging markets offering “the
prospect of positive real returns on the back of strong
fundamentals.”  Political Class  Monness predicted an increase in U.S. economic strength is
at least six to 12 months away, so he’s holding on to Treasuries
for now. He said he’s confident the nation’s debt troubles
eventually will be addressed.  “The problem has started to be recognized in the public
arena and by all Americans, not just the political class, and I
believe that the citizenry will start to reflect the desire for
the proper steps to be taken,” Monness said.  The quarterly poll, which has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points, was conducted Sept. 26 by Selzer &
Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 