-- 
Salida Capital’s Wolfe Says Speculation of Hedge Fund Collapse Unfounded

-- B y   S e a n   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-03T20:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/salida-capital-s-wolfe-says-speculation-of-hedge-fund-s-collapse-unfounded.html
Salida Capital LP Chief Executive
Officer Courtenay Wolfe said speculation that her Toronto-based
hedge fund had collapsed is “unfounded.”  “Salida is not going anywhere; we’re not blowing up,”
Wolfe said today in a telephone interview.  Wolfe, who along with Salida representatives paid $1.68
million in 2009 to have lunch in  New York  with billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett , said she’s talked to “key” clients
and hasn’t seen an uptick in fund redemptions. She said rumors
may have been started because of volatility in the equity
markets.  “We’re having a difficult time in the markets, like
everybody else,” Wolfe said. “Everybody sees the volatility.”  Salida  told  investors last month that its Salida Strategic
Growth Fund fell 16 percent in August for a year-to-date loss of
19 percent.  Wolfe said at a conference in Toronto in May that commodity
prices were in a correction and were poised to rebound. At the
time, she said her firm managed about $900 million in assets,
focusing on natural resources, with about 50 percent of the
investments in  Canada .  Canadian stocks fell today, led by energy companies and
banks, as  Europe ’s finance leaders prepared to weigh the risk of
a Greek debt default.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s biggest oil and gas producer,
lost 5.5 percent after crude oil closed at a one-year low last
week. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, sank 7.2 percent as copper fell to a 14-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index lost 372
points, or 3.2 percent, to 11,251.84 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
index has dropped 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  