-- 
Samsung, Kodak, Intel, Zenimax: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-03T11:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/samsung-eastman-kodak-intel-zenimax-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. made a
proposal to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to resolve their patent dispute in
 Australia  regarding touch-screen technology, a Sydney court was
told Sept. 30.  Samsung lawyer David Catterns didn’t give details about the
proposal, and Apple will need time to consider it, Apple lawyer
Steven Burley told the court.  Catterns’s proposal is a bid to end the last dispute over
patent technology in Australia that’s seen Samsung hold off
selling its Galaxy 10.1 tablet in the country. Apple’s claim
that Samsung violated patents for its iPhone and iPad in
Australia is part of a wider patent battle between the two
companies that has come up in courts on four continents.  Samsung agreed earlier to hold off selling the Galaxy 10.1
in Australia as Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett rules on
Apple’s request for an injunction barring the sale of the
Samsung tablets until a court rules on its patent infringement
claim.  The two sides failed to conclude their arguments Friday as
scheduled, and the hearing is set to resume on Oct. 4, after a
public holiday in New South Wales. Bennett, who said Sept. 29
she aimed to deliver a ruling this week, told the lawyers she
couldn’t give a time-frame for a decision on the injunction.  “I can’t promise when I’ll make a decision,” Bennett
said. “I will try to get it out as soon as possible.”  Samsung agreed last week to withdraw two features from the
Galaxy 10.1 which allegedly infringed Apple’s patents. That
reduced their dispute in Australia to the one patent over touch-
screen display technology.  Bennett pressed both sides to consider a trial over the
patent claim as early as the last week of October. Apple had
already agreed to an early trial.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Kodak Said to Weigh Bankruptcy Filing to Spur Patent Sale  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the unprofitable 131-year-old camera
maker, is weighing options including a bankruptcy filing because
of concerns raised by possible bidders for its patent portfolio,
said three people with direct knowledge of the process.  Some potential buyers of the patents are reluctant to
proceed with bids because a purchase may amount to a so-called
fraudulent transfer if Kodak becomes insolvent, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  A number of suitors, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , have signed
confidentiality agreements to examine the assets, said these
people. If a sale were judged a fraudulent transfer, creditors
could later sue for more money, said one of the people. A
bankruptcy filing may help clear the way for the patent sale,
said the people. The sale could fetch about $3 billion,
according to estimates from MDB Capital Group.  Kodak has discussed its options with law firms Kirkland &
Ellis LLP and Jones Day, the people said. It hasn’t yet hired a
firm and a filing isn’t imminent, they said. Lazard Ltd. is
advising Kodak on options for the patent portfolio.  “As we sit here today, the company has no intention of
filing, and there is no change in our strategy to monetize our
 intellectual property ,” said Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for
Kodak. “We’re not concerned about fraudulent conveyance in
regards to the sale of our IP portfolio.”  He declined to comment on whether the company had discussed
a potential filing with law firms, saying that Kodak is
“focused on the fourth quarter and on delivering on our
strategy to become a profitable, sustainable digital company.”  A representative from Kirkland declined to comment. Katelin
Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mail and e-
mail messages seeking comment, nor did an official for Jones
Day.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Rochester, New York-based
Kodak’s bond ratings last week and indicated further reductions
may follow, citing “ongoing weakness” in the company’s
operations. Kodak, which tapped a  credit line  earlier this
month, has seen its market value sink by more than $30 billion
from its 1997 peak.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez announced plans in
July to explore options for the portfolio of more than 1,100
patents, including some for processing, editing and storing
images. Perez, who took the helm in 2005, has sharpened Kodak’s
focus on the printing business to help revive revenue.  Sales have fallen by half since 2005 to $7.2 billion last
year, with further declines predicted this year and next. The
company’s losses since 2008 exceed $1.76 billion.  Kodak, whose origins date back to 1880, was founded by
George Eastman, who introduced the Kodak camera eight years
later, according to the company’s website. Kodak has shifted
away from traditional film as consumers gravitated toward
digital cameras.  TomTom, Garmin Sued for Infringement by Nevada Patent Owner  TomTom NV (TMOAF)  and Garmin International were sued for patent
infringement by a Nevada patent holder.  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  of Schaffhausen,  Switzerland , is a maker of
navigation devices that use global positioning system
technology. Amsterdam-based TomTom is  Europe ’s largest maker of
portable navigation devices.  The two companies were sued in federal court in Las Vegas
Sept. 29, 19 days after the patents were acquired by Silver
State Intellectual Technologies Inc., of Las Vegas.  The patents TomTom and Garmin are accused of infringing are
part of a group of 20 utility patents, six published and pending
patent applications and four design patents  Silver State
acquired Sept. 10 .  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, the named inventor on all the patents is Michael L.
Obradovich of San Clemente,  California . The database indicated
he has been issued  65 U.S. patents .  The patents had previously been assigned to American CalCar
of Las Vegas. In March 2004, American CalCar successfully sued
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW of North America unit for
patent infringement.  In that case, which was settled in June 2006 with BMW
taking a license to the disputed technology, American CalCar was
represented by  Frederick S. Berretta  of  Irvine , California’s
Knobbe Martens Olson & Bear LLP. He is also representing Silver
State in the two new patent cases against the two makers of
global-positioning navigation systems.  A second case by American CalCar against Honda Motor Co.’s
American Honda unit is still moving through the appellate
process.  Silver State is claiming that TomTom infringes six patents
related to navigation systems. Garmin is accused of infringing
those six patents plus three more.  In the complaints, Silver State claims it’s damaged by the
alleged infringement and seeks court orders halting each company
from activities it claims infringes the patents. Additionally,
it asked for money damages and litigation costs.  Neither Garmin nor TomTom responded immediately to e-mailed
requests for comment.  The case against TomTom is Silver State Intellectual
Technologies Inc., v. TomTom Inc., 2:11-cv-01581-KJD-PAL, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  The case against Garmin is Silver State intellectual
Technologies Inc. v. Garmin International Inc., 2:11-cv-01578-
ECR-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Intel to Fund No-Patent Research at University of  Washington   Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, established the
fifth in a series of research collaborations with U.S.
universities, according to a statement from the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company.  Each of the collaborations, known as Intel Science and
Technology Centers, focuses on a specific technology or
discipline.  The agreements between the chip company and the
universities specify that no patents are to be sought by either
the company or the academic institutions and their researchers,
and that all patentable research is to be published.
Additionally, under the agreement, all “significant” software
developed through the centers’ research is to be open source.  Any background intellectual property introduced into any of
the centers projects will have to be licensed by the other
parties involved before it can be used within the project,
according to an Intel  statement .  The newest collaboration will be with the University of
Washington, and will be focused on “pervasive computing.”
According to  an Intel statement , aim of the research is
“developing applications that are organized into the following
themes: low-power sensing and communication; understanding human
state and activities; and personalization and adaptation.”  Applications to be developed will fall into three areas,
mobile health and wellbeing, a family coordination system, and
“task space, smart kitchen.”  Earlier collaborations are with  Stanford University , for
visual computing; secure computing at the  University of
California  at Berkeley; and cloud computing and embedded
computing, both at Carnegie Mellon University.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s ‘Glee’ Said to Infringe U.K. Comedy Club’s Marks  News Corp.’s 20th Century Fox unit was sued for trademark
infringement by the proprietor of several U.K.-based comedy
clubs, the U.K.’s Birmingham Mail reported.  Mark Tughan claims his  Glee Club  is harmed by Fox’s use of
the same name for its television series about a high school glee
club, the newspaper reported.  Tughan told the Mail that the “ Glee ” television program
aims at a younger demographic group than the customers of his
comedy clubs, and that the confusion between names has caused
the underperformance of his two newest branches.  He registered “The Glee Club” trademark in 2001, and
renewed it in 2009, before the first episode of Fox’s “Glee”
was ever aired, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Zenimax Sues Mojang in Sweden, Claims ‘Scrolls’ Game Infringed  Zenimax Media Inc.’s Bethesda Softworks unit is filing suit
in Sweden against Stockholm’s  Mojang AB , claiming the Swedish
company’s unreleased “Scrolls” game infringes its “Elder
Scrolls” game, the U.K.’s Telegraph  reported .  In August Bethesda wrote to Mojang claiming there were
“significant visual, audio and conceptual similarities” in the
two games, according to the newspaper.  Mojang founder Markus Persson told the Telegraph he assumed
the suit was a “more or less automated response” to his
company’s application to register “Scrolls” as a trademark.  In the early stage of the dispute, Persson made an offer --
declined by Zenimax -- that it should be settled by a
“deathmatch” between the two companies’ staffs using Id
Software’s “ Quake III ” multiplayer game, according to the
Telegraph.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  ‘Industrial Espionage’ Does in U.K.’s First Micro-Pig Breeder  The U.K.’s first breeder of  micro pigs  sought protection of
the bankruptcy court after what she claimed was “industrial
espionage,” the U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  Jane Croft, of Christchurch, Cambridgeshire, said she was
also hit by an online campaign waged through social media sites,
the newspaper reported.  She said there was such a demand for her tiny pigs that she
bought some stock from another breeder, and when those pigs grew
up, they were normal, full-sized hogs, according to the Daily
Mail.  Croft, a former investment banker who promoted her business
through her book “This Little Piggy,” said that she had to
give refunds to buyers when the supposedly tiny swine grew to a
much larger size than anticipated.  IP Moves  Baker & Hostetler Hires Theodore Kobus from Marshall Dennehey  Baker & Hostetler LLP hired Theodore J. Kobus III for its
IP group, the Cleveland-based firm said in a  statement .  Kobus , who joins from Philadelphia-based Marshall Dennehey
Warner Coleman & Goggin, does both client counseling and
litigation related to intellectual property, media, technology,
and data breaches.  Among the clients he’s represented are Holland Computers
Inc., the Pendleton Round Up Association, Magnetic Corp.,
Foundation for Fiduciary Studies, Ikea U.S. West Inc. and Valley
Forge Old Guard Inc., according to Bloomberg data.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from
Purdue University, and a law degree from Widener University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 