-- 
Sangamo Halts Diabetes Drug Development After Failing Trial

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-03T20:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sangamo-halts-development-of-diabetes-drug-after-failing-trial.html
Sangamo BioSciences Inc. (SGMO)  fell the
most in almost three years after the company said its
experimental drug for diabetic neuropathy didn’t work better
than a placebo in a clinical trial.  Sangamo declined $1.31, or 30 percent, to $3.04 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, for the
biggest single-day loss since falling 66 percent on Nov. 11,
2008, when the drug failed an earlier study. Sangamo will stop
development of the medicine, SB-509, and focus on drugs for HIV
and genetic diseases, the Richmond, California-based company
said today in a statement.  “We view this data as thorough, and clear, and more than
sufficient for us to make a definitive decision not to pursue
the drug on our own,” said Edward Lanphier, Sangamo’s president
and chief executive officer, in a telephone interview.  Diabetic neuropathy , a degenerative disease, affected as
many as 18 million Americans last year, according to the
statement, citing the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Nerve damage from high blood glucose levels cause
numbness, tingling sensations and pain in the toes or feet. This
can lead to a loss of feeling and function, and sores.  The trial tested the medicine on patients with moderate to
severe symptoms of the disease and was the second of three
typically required for U.S. regulatory approval.  No Changes  Lanphier said the study’s results won’t change the
company’s plans. Last month, Sangamo reported its gene therapy,
designed to mimic the blocking effect of white blood cells in
people naturally immune to HIV, helped six patients fight off
the disease without drugs.  “Our plans have always been if this trial were successful,
to move forward with a partnership around it, so we were not
gearing up, or planning to do another clinical trial,” he said.
“As I said to the employees here, there’s not a single person
working here at Sangamo, in any capacity, who’s going to do
something different today, than they would have if these data
had been unbelievably positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  