-- 
Satellite-TV Companies May Get Court Review on State Taxes

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-03T14:36:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/satellite-tv-companies-may-get-top-court-review-on-state-taxes.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  signaled
interest in a challenge by units of DirecTV and  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  to state laws that exempt cable television from sales
taxes imposed on satellite-TV service.  The justices today asked the Obama administration for
advice on an  Ohio  Supreme Court ruling that upheld that state’s
5.5 percent sales tax on satellite service. DirecTV and Dish,
the nation’s largest satellite-TV providers, say as many as
eight states are violating the U.S. Constitution by using their
tax laws to protect local jobs in the cable industry.  “Cable companies have leveraged their superior in-state
presence to promote legislative proposals -- like the one at
issue in this case -- that threaten satellite’s viability as a
competitor,”  DirecTV (DTV)  and Dish argued in their appeal to the
nation’s highest court.  The case would test the leeway states have to protect their
local interests at the expense of out-of-state businesses. The
Supreme Court has said in previous cases that states can’t
discriminate against out-of-state commerce without congressional
authorization.  Ohio Jobs  The Ohio Supreme Court said the satellite tax isn’t the
type of protectionism the nation’s highest court has outlawed.
The cable industry “is not a local interest benefited at the
expense of out-of-state competitors,” the Ohio court said in a
5-2 ruling.  Ohio Attorney General Mike Dewine said in court papers that
the satellite and cable industries operate differently and are
legitimately subject to different tax and regulatory rules.  DirecTV and Dish say cable companies employ 6,000 Ohio
residents to construct, operate and maintain networks in the
state. The satellite companies, by contrast, have only a handful
of workers in Ohio.  The Supreme Court directed its request to U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, the Obama administration’s top Supreme
Court advocate.  The case is DirecTV v. Testa, 10-1322.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 