-- 
Saudi Arabia May Tap Reserves for Spending Plans: Arab Credit

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-10-04T11:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/saudi-arabia-may-tap-reserves-for-spending-plans-arab-credit.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil
exporter, may be forced to tap its reserves to fund spending
programs as oil drops below the kingdom’s breakeven budget
price.  King Abdullah  this year announced a $130 billion plan to
create jobs and build homes after uprisings toppled leaders in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . While officials haven’t said whether
they’ll sell debt or draw on reserves, as they did two years
ago, an oil price below an $85 to $90 breakeven level as
estimated by Citigroup Inc. may force them to act.  The central bank’s total assets fell 0.3 percent to 1.93
trillion riyals ($515 billion) in August from July, according to
data from the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency . It was the first
monthly decline since February, when the assets fell 0.4
percent. The Riyadh-based bank didn’t respond to telephone calls
and a fax seeking comment on the reason for the decrease.  “The only reasonable explanation is that they have drawn
down their assets to help fund  government spending  as happened
earlier during the financial crisis,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank , said in a
phone interview. “Lower oil prices don’t only explain the
decline.”  Saudi Arabia, which depends on oil for 86 percent of its
revenue, tapped reserves in 2009 to maintain spending as the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression pushed oil
prices as low as $34 a barrel. Then, the bank’s total assets
dropped 8 percent to about 1.6 trillion riyals as the kingdom
deployed a five-year $400 billion stimulus package.  Saudi Buffer  Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf said government revenue
will cover increases in spending this year,  al-Eqtisadiah 
reported Oct. 2. In May, al-Assaf said the kingdom wouldn’t need
to tap its reserves to finance spending, including a five-year
$384 billion development plan, unless revenue slowed.  When al-Assaf made his comments five months ago, crude oil
was trading above $100. Prices have declined more than 30
percent from a high this year of $113.93 a barrel in April and
were trading at $76 a barrel in electronic trading in  New York .  “The reserves provide a buffer for the government to meet
its spending commitments in the event of a shortfall in
revenues,” said Paul Gamble, head of research at Riyadh-based
Jadwa Investment Co. “There’s no reason to get in debt if you
have savings you can use. While they have such huge savings,
they will always prefer to draw these down than issue debt.”  No International Debt  The cost of insuring Saudi debt against default has dropped
seven basis points from a 19-month high of 143 reached in
February, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent, should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap
protecting $10 million of debt.  Even though  Saudi Arabia  has no international debt there is
trading of credit-default swaps linked to the kingdom as
investors seek to protect against the risk of political turmoil
in the world’s biggest oil supplier. Swaps are being used to
speculate on contagion from upheavals in neighboring countries,
as a proxy for government-controlled companies such as
petrochemical maker Saudi Basic Industries Corp. and to hedge
debt the nation may sell in the future.  Saudi Aramco  The average yield on sovereign bonds in the  Middle East 
jumped 23 basis points last month to 4.93 percent Sept. 30,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional
Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index. The rate was at 4.97 percent
yesterday. The average cost of insuring the region’s sovereign
debt rose 56 basis points in the period to 311, compared with
288 at the end of September for debt in the Asia-Pacific region,
according to data provider CMA.  Final pricing on  Saudi Aramco  Total Refining &
Petrochemical Co.’s sukuk was set at 95 basis points over the
six-month Saudi Arabian Interbank Offered Rate, Deutsche Bank AG
said on its website Oct. 1. The six-month Saibor rate was 0.7
percent on Sept. 29.  The Saudi economy has benefited from government spending
and will grow 6.5 percent this year, compared with 4.1 percent
in 2010, the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said
in a review of the Saudi economy in August.  Saudi Arabia should “issue bonds even if they don’t have
immediate financing needs, particularly to build up a yield
curve for local corporates,” Gamble said.  ‘New Downturn’  The kingdom has just seven corporate bonds traded on the
stock exchange. Saudi Basic Industries, the largest
petrochemical maker in the world, and Saudi Electricity Co. are
among four companies with bonds listed on the Saudi exchange.
The nation’s first corporate bond issue took place in 2003.  Saudi Arabia is concerned that global economy “maybe
entering in a new downturn of fear and weakness, especially in
the big financial institutions in  Europe ,” central bank
Governor Muhammad Al-Jasser was cited on Sept. 28 as saying in
the interview with Asharq al-Awsat.  Saudi Arabia is seeking safer foreign-asset classes in
response to the global economic uncertainty, said Turki Fadaak,
head of research at Riyadh-based Albilad Investment Co.  The central bank’s holdings of foreign securities gained
0.8 percent to a record 1.36 trillion riyals in August from
July, central bank data show. SAMA’s foreign currencies and gold
assets increased 6.1 percent to 169.3 billion riyals in August
from July, according to central bank data.  Saudi Arabia may report a fiscal surplus of 1 percent of
its gross domestic product this year on stable non-oil revenue
as expenditure grows by 40 percent, Citigroup Inc. analyst
Farouk Soussa said in a note to clients on Sept. 29.  “We remain confident that Saudi Arabia has the fiscal
space to absorb these deficit either through resorting to its
considerable fiscal assets or through borrowing,” Soussa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  