-- 
Scene Last Night: Rosanne Cash Helps Keep Ex-Cons out of Jail

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/scene-last-night-rosanne-cash-helps-keep-connecticut-ex-cons-out-of-jail.html
Everett Schenk, chief executive of
North American operations at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, spent Sunday
afternoon at an estate in Greenwich.  The occasion was the nonprofit  Family ReEntry ’s luncheon
and concert, which for 13 years has taken place in the garden of
Bydale, the home of Joan Warburg.  Schenk and his wife, Sally, former board chairman of Family
ReEntry, were co-chairmen of the event. BNP Paribas and
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, were sponsors.  The organization helps formerly incarcerated men and women
in  Connecticut  build new lives.  “The main selling point is that reducing recidivism saves
money,” Schenk said as 480 guests found their seats for a
quinoa and turkey salad.  Moments later, Sally Schenk was on stage citing the exact
figures: It costs $44,000 a year to keep someone in prison, she
said. Family ReEntry spends about $2,300 a year helping former
inmates stay out of prison.  “It’s the easiest economic argument I’ve seen in any
charity,” said Gary Halloway, retired chairman of Five Mile
Capital Partners and a Family ReEntry donor.  Individual donors account for $324,000, or 9.5 percent of
the organization’s annual budget. The bulk, about 75 percent,
comes from federal and state funding, but cuts in those areas
are pressuring the group to find more individual contributors.  “We need one hedge-fund guy to make an anonymous gift,”
said board chairman  William Galvin .  Bringing in Rosanne Cash and her husband, John Leventhal,
to perform boosted ticket sales, at least. The 480 guests were a
record for the event.  Good Listeners  “John and I have played a lot of charity benefits, and no
one has listened as well as you,” Cash said in the middle of
her set, which included “Motherless Children” and “Sea of
Heartbreak,” from her latest album, “The List.”  Leonard Tow, chief executive of New Century Holdings LLC,
an outdoor advertising firm, and chairman of the  Tow Foundation ,
listened to the concert from a table in the back with his
grandson James and George Thompson, a Family ReEntry client who
works for its Beacon Mentoring Program.  “What Family ReEntry is about is creating health, pride
and a capacity to earn a living,” said Tow. “It’s about
shedding the cloak of the ex-con, getting society to accept
these people.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 