-- 
Schaeuble Damps Talk of Rapid Euro Fund Boost

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-03T17:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/schaeuble-seeks-to-stifle-debate-over-euro-rescue-fund-as-pressure-mounts.html
Germany  sought to stifle debate over
boosting the firepower of the euro rescue fund, damping
speculation of a breakthrough in talks to quell the European
debt crisis.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opposed moves to
further scale up the European Financial Stability Facility until
the final three countries approve the fund’s latest upgrade.
Slovakia, the Netherlands and Malta have yet to ratify an
earlier decision to expand the fund to 440 billion euros ($584
billion).  “Speculating makes no sense,” Schaeuble told reporters
before a meeting of European finance ministers in Luxembourg
tonight. “We will wait until the other countries that haven’t
ratified it also do so.”  European stocks and the euro fell today and investors
shunned riskier countries’ bonds amid growing international
impatience with 18 months of muddling through marked by clashes
among Germany,  France  and the  European Central Bank .  Europe’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to extinguish the Greek crisis while insulating Italy and
 Spain  and coming up with a formula for banks that the
 International Monetary Fund  says face as much as 300 billion
euros in credit risks.  The meeting, chaired by Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, started at 5 p.m. No time was set for the
concluding press conference.  Greece Lifeline  Today was the original target date for approving an 8
billion-euro loan payment to Greece, the sixth installment of
the 110 billion-euro lifeline put together at the outbreak of
the crisis in May 2010.  Now that decision has been pushed back until mid-October,
as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  concocts plans to
squeeze additional savings out of a population weary of two
years of budget cuts and tax increases.  “We need to wait on Greece,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters. Greece’s odds hinge on an
assessment by  European Commission , ECB and IMF experts, to be
discussed by the ministers on Oct. 13.  The payout would buy Greece time as seven countries
including Germany, Europe’s dominant economy, consider
unstitching a July accord on a second bailout, potentially
calling for Greek bond writedowns of as much as 50 percent that
would constitute default, two European officials said.  ‘Bazooka’ Need  “I’m very concerned of things getting out of control,”
 Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said
in an interview yesterday in Dubai. “You need a huge bazooka of
at least 2 trillion euros, but you can’t wait three months, you
have to do it in the next few weeks.”  Schaeuble and Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden ruled
out a discussion tonight of using leverage to get more out of
the rescue fund, contradicting earlier statements by European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn and Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen.  “We are reviewing options over optimizing the use of the
EFSF in order to have more out of it,” Rehn said. “Leveraging
is one of the options.”  Fourteen of the 17 euro countries have approved the
reinforcement of the temporary fund. Of the three to go,
Slovakia poses the biggest hurdle, with Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  squaring off against euro-skeptics within her
coalition. Slovakia is slated to vote by Oct. 17.  Slovakian Vote  Schaeuble leaned on Slovakia to go along, saying “they are
deciding not just for themselves, but also for all in  Europe .”  The revamped fund will obtain the powers to buy bonds on
the primary and secondary markets, offer precautionary credit
lines and enable capital infusions for banks. Options for
further magnifying its clout include enabling it to borrow from
the ECB, using it for bond insurance or to offer credit
enhancements.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer , an ECB council
member, said today in  Tokyo  he’s “open” to the idea of using
borrowed money to beef up the fund.  Finance ministers are also close to a deal on  Finland ’s
demand for collateral -- such as shares in nationalized Greek
banks or real estate -- to underpin its contribution to  Greece ’s
second package, three people familiar with the discussion said.  A proposal to be considered today sets relatively
unattractive terms so that Finland would be the only country to
force Greece to put up collateral, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  Collateral Wrangling  Deals on collateral have been close before. Finland reached
an arrangement with Greece on Aug. 16, only to see it rejected
by other euro countries.  “Can we find a solution?” Finland’s Urpilainen said.
“That’s impossible to say. We are trying to find a solution
that everyone can accept.”  The clash pitted Greece against AAA-rated Finland, home to
a euro-skeptic movement that catapulted to third place in April
elections by opposing further bailouts. While the party now
known as “The Finns” didn’t make it into the ruling coalition,
it captured the Finnish mood and hardened the stance of new
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  in the euro-rescue bartering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  