-- 
SEC Asks Apple CFO for Information on Nokia Patent Litigation Settlement

-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 
2011-10-03T17:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sec-asks-apple-cfo-for-information-on-nokia-patent-litigation-settlement.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  for information on the financial terms of a patent
litigation settlement with  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   The SEC requested details of the settlement agreement
including any amounts accrued, the periods in which they were
recognized and the timeline of negotiations in a June 28 letter
to the company released in a regulatory filing today. Apple said
“no aspects of the company’s discussions with Nokia were
material to the company’s consolidated financial statements” in
a July 12 letter to the SEC released in a separate filing today.  Nokia won an almost two-year patent dispute with Apple, in
a settlement that awards a one-time payment and royalties to the
Finnish handset maker, Nokia said in June. Details of the
contract are confidential, Nokia said at the time.  Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, Steve Dowling an Apple
spokesman, and  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  The two mobile-phone makers had been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Cupertino,
California-based Apple of infringing patents. Nokia also
demanded royalties on the millions of Apple iPhones sold since
the device’s introduction in 2007. Nokia said in March it had 46
patents asserted against Apple in civil lawsuits and complaints
lodged with the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Nokia’s first claims covered technology for wireless data,
speech coding, security and encryption. Subsequent claims
asserted rights to wiping gestures on a touchscreen and on-
device application stores, both of which Nokia said it filed to
patent more than 10 years before the iPhone launch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  