-- 
Sensitive U.S. Data Imperiled by Agencies’ Weak Cyberdefenses

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sensitive-data-systems-at-risk-in-u-s-agencies-gao-reports.html
U.S. government agencies’ failure to
meet the requirements of a 2002 information-security law are
putting sensitive federal data and computer systems at risk,
according to congressional auditors.  Reports of security incidents at 24 agencies have increased
more than sevenfold over the past five years, according to a
Government Accountability Office report released yesterday. The
agencies haven’t fully implemented security measures mandated
under the law, according to the report, which was sent to the
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  “Threats to systems supporting critical infrastructure and
federal  information systems  are evolving and growing,”
according to the report. “Advanced persistent threats -- where
an adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise
and significant resources can attack by using multiple means
such as cyber, physical, or deception to achieve its objectives
-- pose increasing risks.”  Agencies have not taken steps to comply with GAO security
recommendations, according to the report. For example, the
 Internal Revenue Service  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
have not restricted database and system access for users to only
what is needed to perform their jobs. The FDIC also does not
always encrypt sensitive data, according to the report.  “There is perhaps no greater vulnerability that Congress
has yet to address through legislation than the insecurity of
cyberspace,” Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the top Republican
on the governmental affairs committee, said in a statement. “We
must fortify the government’s efforts to safeguard its own cyber
networks from attack and build a public/private partnership to
promote stronger national cyber-security.”  ‘Risk Management’  The government needs to go beyond the requirements of the
current law, which is outdated, said Liesyl Franz, vice
president of cybersecurity and global public policy at
TechAmerica, a Washington-based technology industry group.  “It’s hard to say that if you’re fully compliant, you’d be
more secure,” Franz said in an interview yesterday. It’s more
important for agencies to be fully aware of their network and
the systems in which they keep data, she said.  If agencies “haven’t fully embraced the risk-management
aspect of this,” they should focus on having better awareness
of their vulnerabilities, including the number of connections to
their networks and the number of people capable of accessing
their systems, Franz said.  41,776 Incidents  The  Federal Information Security Management Act  (FISMA) of
2002 established government-wide security standards for computer
systems and set reporting requirements for U.S. agencies. The
GAO is required to make periodic reports to Congress on
government compliance.  Federal agencies control 11,310 information systems,
according to the report. Of those, 1,296 are high-impact,
meaning a loss of system integrity or availability may have a
“catastrophic adverse effect” on “organizational operations,
organizational assets or individuals,” according to the report.  The number of incidents reported by federal agencies to
Homeland Security Department’s  Computer Emergency Readiness Team 
(US-CERT) increased to 41,776 incidents in fiscal year 2010 from
5,503 incidents in fiscal year 2006, according to the report.  Thirty percent of the incidents reported by agencies to US-
CERT involved the installation of malicious software that
infects an operating system or application, according to the
report. Agencies are not required to report successfully
quarantined viruses, worms and other malicious code.  ‘Obvious Weaknesses’  An additional 26 percent of incidents in 2010 are still
being investigated, according to the report. In 14 percent of
reported incidents, someone gained access to an agency network,
system, application, data or other resources without permission.  “These findings are all the more troubling given that GAO
has been telling us for some time that these are areas of
vulnerability and must be addressed, yet we still haven’t made
enough progress in shoring up these obvious weaknesses,”
Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat and chairman of the
subcommittee on federal financial management, said in a
statement.  The  Homeland Security  Department “has taken many steps to
improve the cybersecurity posture of federal agencies,” Chris
Ortman, a DHS spokesman, said in an e-mail. The department has
pushed for agencies to be able to continuously monitor the
security of their networks, he said.  Authorized Users  The GAO found that most of the agencies reviewed have
weaknesses in access controls, which ensure that only authorized
users can access data, and configuration management controls,
which assure that only authorized software is installed.  FISMA requires the Office of Management and Budget to
oversee policy implementation and compliance, agency heads and
chief information officers to protect their systems, inspectors
general to conduct yearly independent evaluations and the
 National Institute of Standards and Technology  to provide
security guidance.  OMB has taken some steps to improve federal information
security, according to the GAO report. The office has created
tools to increase security reporting by agencies and has set
metrics for reporting, though the majority of those metrics did
not establish performance goals.  Agencies’ efforts to educate users on security awareness
are falling short, according to the report. The agencies
reported that while 92 percent of users with log-in privileges
had received training, there are weaknesses such as how current
or specialized the training is.  In one security incident described by the GAO, a user on an
unnamed agency’s network “was tricked by a carefully crafted e-
mail to go to a website on the pretense that he had won a new
car in a lottery,” according to the report. The user later
“found that several credit cards had been opened in his name
and large amounts of pet supplies had been ordered without his
knowledge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  