-- 
Serbia Rejects Pressure on Kosovo, Won’t Give Up on Serb North

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-03T13:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/serbia-rejects-pressure-on-kosovo-won-t-give-up-on-serb-north.html
Serbia  will continue supporting the
Serb community in northern  Kosovo  regardless of European Union
pressure to change policy or the risk of a setback in its
efforts to join the 27-nation bloc.  Serbia, which will keep striving for EU membership, refused
to accept Kosovo as a sovereign state or halt its support to the
Serb community that refuses to be governed by Kosovo’s ethnic
Albanian government, Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said at a
forum in Belgrade today. The European Commission will announce
on Oct. 12 whether it recommends Serbia to become an EU
candidate.  “There is no conflict between our efforts to join the EU
and protecting the rights of our kin in Kosovo,” Dacic said.
“These people deserve to feel safe, that is part of European
tradition.”  Dacid was responding to an Austrian diplomat who said
Serbia may not be able to start EU entry talks before it
resolves its relations with Kosovo, though a softer Serb stance
on Kosovo “is no formal condition” to continue talks.  Still, “it is self-evident that a substantial territorial
conflict with a neighboring country is an obstacle,” said
Wolfgang Waldner,  Austria ’s State Secretary for European and
International Affairs. “Kosovo partition is not an option” he
said, as Serbia attempts to secure some self-rule for the Serb
community.  Kosovo declared independence in 2008 and won recognition
from 22 of 27 EU states. It tried to impose control of the
northern border with Serbia, which triggered violence with the
locals and an intervention by NATO peacekeepers.  “You supported change of Serbia’s borders when you
recognized Kosovo, but now you say that a change of Kosovo
borders is unacceptable. These are double standards,” Dacic
told Waldner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  