-- 
Seven Currencies in Century Enough for Germans Rescuing Euro

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-10-03T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/seven-currencies-since-1914-is-enough-for-germans-rescuing-euro.html
Addi Brittnacher  is one German
willing to pay a Greek ransom to save his way of life.  The 61-year-old retired machine worker is from Saarland,
the western corner of  Germany  wedged beside France and
Luxembourg and a region built on coal and steel that became the
heart of the European Union’s genesis. His wallet used to bulge
with three kinds of cash and an identification card to cross the
 border s a few hundred meters from his home.  “There are no more borders here and people don’t have
borders in their heads,” said Brittnacher, as he drove a van on
a rutted gravel road along vineyards above the Mosel River.
“It’s worth saving Greece to save the euro.”  Saarland is the birthplace of the European integration
project that emerged from World War II and culminated in
monetary union and the introduction of euro bank notes nine
years ago. That makes the region a microcosm of why German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may have to do whatever it takes to
prevent Greece from blowing the 17-member euro apart.  The region, which was swapped between France and Germany as
war booty, has had seven currencies since 1914. The people there
don’t want another one because employers such as 263-year-old
ceramic maker Villeroy & Boch, Ford Motor Co. and automotive-
parts producer  Robert Bosch GmbH  depend on exports.  Feeling Pain  “The euro is vital because we have above average exports
in comparison with other German states,” Christoph Hartmann,
39, Saarland’s economy minister, said in an interview in his
office in the state capital, Saarbruecken. “We need long-term
security for euro members and we won’t get this through cosmetic
changes. It will be painful.”  Greece has about 350 billion euros ($465 billion) of debt,
equivalent to five times the size of  Argentina ’s default a
decade ago. The Greek pile will amount to 62 percent more than
the size of its economy this year, while its  budget deficit  will
remain wider than targeted as Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
struggles to implement measures to raise money. Based on 10-year
government bond prices, its borrowing costs were 22.8 percent
yesterday, more than 11 times Germany’s.  Brittnacher lives in the German village of  Perl  across the
Mosel River from the Luxembourg village of Schengen, where EU
members signed the  agreement  in 1985 that led to a passport-free
travel zone encompassing most of the group’s now 27 countries.  Wine Prices  Thomas Schmitt, 46, a vineyard owner in Perl, has 7
hectares of grapes producing 90 percent white wines including
Grauer Burgunder, Weisser Burgunder and Elbling.  “The euro is a huge help for us when we have to make big
investments,” Schmitt said. “It allows me to compare prices
from suppliers in  France , Germany and Luxembourg.”  “Naturally, I would help Greece although I’m skeptical
about whether they can get this thing under control,” he said,
sitting at table made from a wine barrel in his vineyard’s
cellar. “If the EU can’t solve this problem then who can?”  As the EU’s largest economy, Germany has committed the
lion’s share to the rescue of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  so
far and is under pressure to commit more funds.  It’s the biggest country in the  European Financial
Stability Facility , or EFSF, with its guarantees rising to 211
billion euros, or 27 percent of the money. The expansion of the
fund was approved by German lawmakers on Sept. 29 while polls
showed the majority of the public didn’t want to.  Merkel’s Future  The broader EFSF has a remit to buy bonds of distressed
euro-area governments on both the primary and secondary markets,
aid troubled banks and offer credit lines. All but three of the
euro members have approved it.  “The euro is our common future,” Merkel said in a Sept.
27 speech in Berlin attended by Papandreou. “We have to show
solidarity to preserve the common currency.”  Germany “profits from the euro” and will provide all the
help it can to stabilize  Greece , she said.  The Saarland’s dependency on sales abroad reflects the
nation. Germany is the world’s second-biggest exporter after
 China . Outgoing goods rose 14.7 percent in the first half of
2011 from the same period a year earlier, to 525.6 billion
euros, according to the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  About 17 percent of Saarland’s exports go to France, with
its neighbor accounting for 19 percent of imports into the area,
the state’s  Economy Ministry  said.  Seeking Safety  “Without the euro, Germany would be in a very difficult
position,” Bruce Stout, the manager of Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc’s $1.5 billion Murray International Trust, said
in an interview at his office in Edinburgh. “If they weren’t in
the euro could you imagine what the over-valuation of the
deutsche mark would be? People would see it as a safe haven.”  The euro lost 7.7 percent against the dollar in the third
quarter. It sank by 9 percent versus the Swiss franc from June
30 until Sept. 5, the day before the central bank in Zurich said
it would cap the currency to prevent its role as a safe haven
from damaging the country’s economy.  The Saarland changed hands four times between Germany and
France in the 20th Century as a result of both World Wars. Its
currency varied more, including the adoption of the transitional
Saarmark for six months in 1947.  The state was a core of the  European Coal and Steel
Community , set up in 1951, to “ make it plain  that any war
between France and Germany becomes not merely unthinkable, but
materially impossible,” according to Robert Schuman, the French
foreign minister at the time and an architect of European unity.
He called the coal and steel alliance “a first step in the
federation of  Europe .”  Border Triangle  Schuman’s family hailed from Lorraine, the area of eastern
France across the border from Saarland that was annexed by the
German Empire in 1871. Brittnacher was born in Saarland after
World War II when it was occupied by the French.  Driving through a French farm village surrounded by
forests, Brittnacher, a well-built man with short grey hair and
a neatly trimmed moustache, rolls down the window of the van and
greets an elderly woman in Plattdeutsch, or “low German,” as
she sorts walnuts in front of her home.  The language, which sounds like a mixture of German and
Dutch, is spoken by people in the border region of the three
countries, he said. “People get confused because we also speak
the local dialect,” he said.  Schmitt’s vineyard in Perl is also a blend reflecting the
region. Pointing to the cellar’s stone walls, oak beams and
heavy wrought iron door hinges, Schmitt said the beams and
hinges were made by French craftsmen while the stonework was
done by a Portuguese company from Luxembourg. “That’s European
unity in stone, steel and wood,” he said.  Better Fish  Markus Moelle, 36, an architect in Saarbruecken, said that
German skilled trades are also in demand in France.  “I have French customers who say they only want German
plumbers and electricians, even though they’re more expensive,
because they know the Germans have better training,” Moelle
said on the roof terrace above his office, Raumloesungen Ltd.,
in an industrial park on the outskirts of Saarbruecken.  Moelle, who designs logistic centers, said “the euro is a
foundation for all cross-border business in the region.”  “I can compare prices, wages, you name it, for any
project,” he said. “On a personal level, I love having the
euro and open border because I do my shopping in France. French
supermarkets have far better fish than those in Germany.”  Worldly Region  The Saarland, with a  population  of about 1 million, is one
of the most international parts of Germany.  More than 200,000 people commute across the state’s
national borders to jobs, business or for shopping every day,
the Saarland Interior and Europe Ministry said in an Aug. 31
 statement . Saarland and French police forces carry out regular
joint deployments such as a June training  operation  with 500
French and German officers.  Support in the Saarland for doing whatever it takes to keep
the euro region intact compares with 76 percent of Germans who
opposed expanding the firepower of the rescue fund for indebted
euro governments, according to an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF
television published on Sept. 9.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  governs the Saarland
with the Greens and Free Democrats.  “The  labor force  beyond the border is increasingly
important,” said Hartmann, the economy minister, citing
Germany’s aging population. “The French have always worked here
but this is growing in importance.”  Hartmann, a member of the Free Democratic Party that serves
as junior coalition partner to  Chancellor Merkel  in Berlin, said
that to save the euro Greece will need a “haircut” and its
debts will have to be reduced by up to 80 percent. Banks will
have to take a “loss,” he said.  Germany’s Greece  Unlike some richer German states, Saarlanders have
experience of what it’s like to need aid.  The Saarland was handed 6.6 billion euros in subsidies from
1994 to 2004 to cut its debt and is due to receive a further
2.34 billion euros from 2011 to 2019, according to the state’s
 Finance Ministry .  The Saarland is the smallest of Germany’s states after the
cities of Berlin, Hamburg and Bremen, and had 11.8 billion euros
of debt at the end of 2010, the Finance Ministry said.  “You could say we’re the Greece of Germany,” Oliver
Groll, an economist at the state’s Chamber of Industry and
Commerce, said in an interview. “The Saarland profits from the
rest of Germany. Low interest on German bonds helps the indebted
Saarland. It’s kind of a German euro bond we benefit from.”  Honecker’s Home  The state, which produced East German communist leader
Erich Honecker, has converted a once declining economy from coal
and steel into one based on manufacturing and services. Steel
and coal employed 100,000 people in 1960 and today the number is
14,000, with the final 3,000 coal jobs due to be axed next year,
according to the Chamber of Industry and Commerce.  Today, of the Saarland’s 100,000 industrial jobs, about
45,000 are at automotive companies including  Ford , which makes
its new Focus compact car in the region, and  Robert Bosch 
manufacturing diesel injection components.  The Saarland’s gross domestic product grew 4.7 percent last
year, the biggest yearly expansion since 1979, according to data
from the Economy Ministry. That’s more than Germany as a whole
at 3.6 percent in 2010.  Nationwide, growth is forecast to slow to 2.7 percent this
year and 1.3 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last month. The  Greek economy  will shrink for a fourth
straight year in 2012, contracting 5 percent this year and 2
percent next year, it said.  Deutsche Mark  Heino Klingen, director of the Saarland Chamber of Industry
and Commerce’s economic and business-development division, warns
that any return to the deutsche mark would push up the value
Germany’s currency to rates of the 1980s and harm exports.  “Saarland industry exports over 50 percent of what it
produces, mostly to the euro region with France as our biggest
market,” Klingen said in an interview. “So the euro is very,
very important for us.”  To buttress growth, the Saarland needs to attract more
companies to base their business there and create research and
development jobs, Hartmann said.  One global company with its headquarters in the Saarland is
Mettlach-based Villeroy & Boch, a ceramics maker of everything
from toilets to luxury tableware for all recent popes including
Benedict XVI. The company, founded in 1748, is active in 125
countries and generates 65 percent of its revenue in euros,
Joerg Wahlers, its chief financial officer, said by e-mail.  “This alone shows the meaning of the currency for us,”
said Wahlers. “The euro reduces Villeroy & Boch’s currency
risks and gives us greater planning security.”  Dishwasher Safe  Villeroy & Boch expects global sales of 760 million euros
in 2011 with net operating profit of about 30 million euros,
said Almut Haehner-Ural, Villeroy & Boch’s spokeswoman.  At the company’s museum next to the factory, tableware
designed for recent popes is on display. Benedict’s are less
ornate, simply with his  coat of arms  of crossed keys, a bear and
a scallop shell after he requested they be toned down.  “He wanted less gold and a thinner gold border,” said
Ester Katharina Schneider, who runs the museum. “He chose from
our normal  production line  and the plates are dishwasher safe.
We’re told he uses them on a daily basis.”  Brittnacher’s van rattles up a hillside surrounded by
fields of rich, reddish soil littered with stone fragments.  “This field is in Germany but it’s farmed by two
Frenchmen,” said Brittnacher, whose home is 300 meters (984
feet) from Luxembourg and 500 meters from France. “Back in the
old days of border controls they had to declare the manure they
drove across the border as fertilizer.”  He pulls up at a Franco-German “ Peace Chapel ” built of
stone between 1996 and 1999 and straddling the French-German
border. Inside is a metal plaque listing men from the
surrounding villages who were killed in both world wars.  “These three countries here are our capital,” Brittnacher
said. “We haven’t had a war for more than 60 years in a place
where there was so much war. This alone makes the EU and the
euro worth fighting for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Perl, Germany, at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  