-- 
Shorting Bans Do Little to Help Europe Banks, Instinet Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-03T18:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/short-sale-bans-doing-little-to-help-europe-banks-instinet-says.html
Financial stocks subject to rules
restricting short sales in  France , Italy, Belgium and  Spain  have
behaved about the same as banks in European countries with no
such prohibitions, according to Instinet Inc.  French lenders governed by the regulations trailed the
benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  by about 7 percentage points between Aug.
12, when the ban was imposed, and Aug. 29, data compiled by the
New York-based brokerage show. Italian financial firms fell
about 4 points more than the FTSE MIB Index, the data show.
Shares in the U.K. and  Netherlands , which didn’t ban bearish
bets, underperformed by 5 or 6 percentage points, Instinet said.  The study says prohibiting bearish bets did little to stem
volatility or reverse losses after concern about the European
debt crisis sent banks in the Stoxx  Europe  600 down more than 30
percent from their February highs. France banned short sales in
 companies  such as  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and BNP Paribas SA, and
Italy’s rules covered almost  30 companies  such as UniCredit SpA.  “The short-sale bans didn’t protect stocks in terms of
price or volatility and were a negative for market quality,”
Alison Crosthwait, managing director for global market structure
research at Instinet and author of the report, said in an
interview. “The stocks performed the same as counterparts
without a ban. It didn’t help them not fall or prevent losses.”  Similar Outcomes  Short sellers sell borrowed securities, hoping to buy them
later at a lower price and return them to the lender. The tactic
can be used to bet on a stock decline or hedge a position, or as
part of a trading strategy involving multiple securities. Market
makers also sell stocks short as part of their normal trading.  While financial companies in France and Italy fared worse
than benchmark gauges in those countries, lenders in Spain and
Belgium did better. German financial stocks, which had no short-
sale restriction, also beat the DAX Index. Similar results in
countries with bans and without suggest no effect attributable
to the curbs, Crosthwait said.  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index dropped 4.2 percent compared with a loss of 0.5 percent
for the Bloomberg European 500 the period from Aug. 12 to Aug.
29. Stocks with bans on short selling, including BNP Paribas and
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , are among companies in the gauge.  2008 Bans  A report on the short-sale ban from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) 
said banned financial stocks fell 10.4 percent from Aug. 12 to
Sept. 20, while German, Dutch and British constituents of the
MSCI Europe Financials Index declined 4.4 percent. The study,
published today, says the rules didn’t stop share price declines
in affected European stocks. Analysts Mark Buchanan, Jonathan Tse and Drew Vincent, based in  London , wrote the report.  Crosthwait said Instinet’s conclusions echo academic
studies that found bans on short sales of bank and financial
stocks instituted in the U.S., U.K. and elsewhere in 2008 didn’t
lessen volatility or prevent declines in the shares of companies
such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. With a ban
in place, price declines come from holders of the stock selling
shares to cut losses, raise capital or adjust their holdings.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission implemented a
ban on about 800 financial stocks in September 2008 after bank
executives including  John Mack , then chief executive officer of
New York-based Morgan Stanley, said short sellers were driving
down prices in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filing for bankruptcy. More firms were later added. The U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority and other regulators also
prohibited short sales of financial shares.  Financial Stocks  British financial stocks dropped 41 percent in the four
months after the FSA imposed the ban that September. The
benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 15 percent in the period. When the
SEC prohibited short-sales for three weeks, a Bloomberg Index
tracking the 880 U.S. stocks affected fell 26 percent, outpacing
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 22 percent decline.  The European Securities and Markets Authority coordinated
the August bans on short sales. ESMA, established last year,
succeeded the Committee of European Securities Regulators.  Regulators used the bans “to shock and awe the markets and
reassure investors that markets were not manipulated,” James Clunie, investment director for U.K. equities at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, the Edinburgh-based fund unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, said in a phone interview. “It was viewed as
shocking when it was originally done, but when repeated a few
years later it’s less shocking.”  The curbs reduced liquidity for investors and made it
harder for traders to hedge positions, according to Clunie. He
questioned the need of regulators to try to stabilize prices.  ‘Extremely Negative’  “If people felt extremely negative about European banking
shares, there might be a knock-on influence if they shorted bank
shares in other countries,” Clunie said. “We’re not seeing
knock-on effects coming into the U.K. market.” He added that it
may be difficult to assess the fair value of banks because
they’re “so leveraged,” making shorting them riskier.  The Instinet study examined three time periods including a
base interval from July 21 to Aug. 2, when Europe’s  VStoxx
Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting against a decline
in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, averaged 25.9, according to
Bloomberg data. That was followed by a period from Aug. 3 to
Aug. 11 when the VStoxx Index surged to 41.9. The third span,
from Aug. 12 to Aug. 29, tracked activity when the ban was in
effect. The volatility index rose to 42.8 in that period.  Instinet compared activity in nations with bans to trading
in the U.K.,  Germany , the Netherlands,  Switzerland ,  Sweden , the
U.S. and  Canada . Instinet is owned by Tokyo-based  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)   Daily Moves  The average daily price moves of financial stocks decreased
during the ban period compared to the early August span by more
than 60 percent in France, more than 40 percent in  Italy  and
over 30 percent in Spain, Instinet data showed. The reduction in
volatility was similar in countries with no bans. Germany, the
Netherlands and the U.S. recorded average daily absolute price
changes in financial stocks during the ban period that were less
than half the size of the moves in early August, Instinet said.  “If the short-sale bans succeeded in reducing volatility,
one would expect the reduction of price volatility to be greater
in countries with the ban than without,” the Instinet report
said. “In fact, the reduction in volatility between the two
groups is similar.”  While the average bid-offer spread, or the difference
between the highest price at which investors will buy shares and
the lowest at which they’ll sell, increased for banned and non-
banned financial stocks as volatility rose in August, it then
diverged for the two sets of companies, Credit Suisse research
showed. Stocks with bans recorded bigger increases in spreads
than those in the German, Dutch and British components of the
MSCI Europe Financials Index through Sept. 16, the broker said.  Volume Impact  The bans also affected volume. Trading in financial
companies in Italy and Spain plunged by more than half in the
Aug. 12 to Aug. 29 period, compared with the span from July 21
to Aug. 2 before volatility increased, Instinet data showed. It
shrank by more than a quarter in France and  Belgium  while volume
in countries with no bans rose.  “If you can’t short, you can’t hedge,” Clunie said. “It
throws sand in the machinery of some market players. But if
there were manipulated stocks, it throws sand in their machinery
too and reassures investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  