-- 
Silver Lake Said to Discuss Yahoo Deal With China’s Alibaba, Digital Sky

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-04T13:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/silver-lake-discussing-yahoo-with-alibaba-digital-sky.html
The private-equity firm Silver Lake,
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies
are discussing a possible joint bid for Yahoo! Inc., three
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The group contacted Yahoo and its advisers in recent weeks
to inform them of a possible offer, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
discussions are still at an early stage and it’s not certain
that the group will agree to make a bid, the people said.  Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma said last week he is “very
interested” in buying Yahoo, six years after selling a 40
percent stake in China’s biggest e-commerce company to the owner
of the most-visited U.S. Web portal. Yahoo is reviewing its
strategy to revive growth and attract more users after firing
Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  last month.  “One of the major motivations for Jack Ma to buy Yahoo is
for him to increase his ownership of Alibaba,” said Muzhi Li,
an analyst at Mizuho Securities in  Hong Kong . “If Yahoo is
being taken over by an international consortium from China and
Russia, the deal will be scrutinized by U.S. agencies very
seriously.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment.  Yahoo rose 50 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $14.03 at 9:49 a.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock had dropped
19 percent this year before today.  U.S. Regulators  Ma had discussions with Yahoo, as well as other potential
buyers, without identifying them, he said on Sept. 30.  “We are very interested in Yahoo because our Alibaba Group
is so important to Yahoo, and Yahoo is also very important to
us,” Ma said at the time. “There are so many people who are
interested in that, and we are also talking to them.”  Silver Lake, Alibaba and DST are girding for potential
opposition from U.S. regulators to foreign ownership of a
company that handles communications, one person said.  In 2008,  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. dropped a bid for
Marlborough, Massachusetts-based computer-equipment maker 3Com
Corp. after the U.S. government began investigating whether a
deal would give China access to technology used by the Defense
Department.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States ,
an interagency committee of the U.S. government known as CFIUS,
had planned to block the sale of 3Com Corp., Bain Capital
Partners LLC, Huawei’s partner on the bid, said in March 2008.  Potential Opposition  Regulators may oppose foreign ownership of a company such
as Yahoo, which plays a crucial role in U.S. communications
through the delivery of e-mail and instant messaging. The
company also serves as the second-largest U.S. search engine,
through a partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The deal would face
tax implications as well because of Yahoo’s stakes in Alibaba
and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , one person said.  Yahoo advisers are receiving inquiries from “multiple
parties” interested in various unspecified strategic options,
according to a memo to employees from co-founder  Jerry Yang  last
month.  “Our advisers are working with us to develop ideas that we
will pursue proactively,” according to the memo, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “They are fielding inquiries from
multiple parties that have already expressed interest in a
number of potential options.”  Bartz Rankles  Investment bank Allen & Co. has examined various scenarios
for Yahoo, a person familiar with the situation said last month.  People involved in the deliberations said last month that
 Silver Lake  was considering a bid for Yahoo. As part of a deal,
the private-equity firm would sell off Yahoo’s Asian assets and
then attempt to turn around the main operations or find a buyer
for that business, the people said.  As CEO, Bartz rankled investors with her handling of
Yahoo’s assets in  Asia , including the Alibaba stake. She feuded
publicly with Ma, who spun off one of his company’s most
valuable assets, the Alipay payment business, without
compensating Yahoo shareholders until later.  When Yang was CEO in 2008, Yahoo spurned a $47.5 billion
offer by Microsoft. The two companies later struck an agreement
to outsource Yahoo’s search technology to Microsoft, diminishing
the chance of a takeover. Yahoo now has a market value of $17.1
billion.  The AllThingsD technology blog  previously listed  Silver
Lake, Digital Sky and Alibaba as potential bidders for Yahoo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  