-- 
SL Green to Acquire Manhattan Properties With Stonehenge for $416 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-03T20:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sl-green-to-acquire-manhattan-properties-with-stonehenge-for-416-million.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York’s
biggest office landlord, agreed to buy eight  Manhattan  retail
and multifamily properties in a joint venture with Stonehenge
Partners for $416 million.  The deal includes 724 Fifth Ave., in the world’s most
expensive shopping district, New York-based SL Green said in a
statement today. Prada SpA, the Milan-based luxury-goods maker,
occupies about 20,700 square feet (1,900 square meters) in the
building, according to the statement.  The purchase marks SL Green’s first foray into New York’s
apartment market and raises the real estate investment trust’s
profile as an owner of Manhattan street-retail properties. Even
with this purchase, apartments are likely to remain “tangential
to their business,” said Alex Goldfarb, an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York .  “I wouldn’t think SL Green is becoming an apartment
company,” Goldfarb, who recommends investors buy the company’s
shares, said in a telephone interview. “Their partner
Stonehenge will take the lead on that, but SL Green has
opportunities with any ground-floor retail that’s associated
with those properties.”  Since July, partnerships including SL Green have bought or
signed contracts to acquire retail buildings in Times Square at
1552 and 1560 Broadway, and 747 Madison Ave. on the Upper East
Side.  New York Focus  The housing part of the transaction helps SL Green
diversify its portfolio while maintaining its New York focus,
Andrew Mathias, the REIT’s president, said in the statement.  Stonehenge, based in New York and co-founded by investor
Ofer Yardeni, will manage and reposition the multifamily
portion, which totals 402 rental units in Midtown and the Upper
East Side. Yardeni’s company has stakes in about 2,560 New York
apartments, according to the statement.  Besides the 12-story 724 Fifth Ave., the properties in the
deal announced today include 762 Madison Ave.; 400 East 57th
St.; 400 East 58th St. and stakes in 752 Madison Ave., occupied
by clothier  Giorgio Armani , and 19-21 East 65th St.  Manhattan apartment rents rose 7 percent in the second
quarter as lower vacancies prompted landlords to cut
concessions, the firms Miller Samuel Inc. and Prudential Douglas
Elliman Real Estate reported in July. Apartments are benefiting
from a stagnant home sales market, the firms reported.  Retail rents have leveled off on Manhattan’s Fifth and
Madison avenues as the most prestigious locations have been
taken, the Real Estate Board of New York reported in May. Upper
Fifth Avenue rents averaged $2,250 a square foot, while Madison
Avenue between 57th and 72nd streets averaged $919 a square
foot, the third-highest rate in the city after upper Fifth
Avenue and Times Square, according to the trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  