-- 
South Carolina Picks Earlier Primary Date After Florida Move

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-03T17:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/south-carolina-picks-earlier-primary-date-after-florida-move.html
South Carolina  will hold its
Republican presidential primary on Jan. 21, the state party said
today, a decision that is likely to shift the first round of
balloting to just after New Year’s Day.  “South Carolina Republicans have a 30-year track record of
picking the eventual Republican presidential nominee,” the
chairman of the  South Carolina Republican Party ,  Chad Connelly ,
said in a statement. “We will continue that historic
tradition.”  South Carolina’s move was prompted by  Florida ’s decision
last week to flout national Republican party rules and hold its
primary on Jan. 31.  The new dates are likely to set off a domino effect among
the traditional early-voting states, shifting the start of the
nominating contests a month earlier than national party leaders
had planned.  Iowa ,  New Hampshire , and Nevada also are expected to uphold
their traditional status as the first voting states by moving
their caucus or primary dates to early January.  New Hampshire may hold its contest as early as Jan. 10,
said Steve Duprey, a national committeeman of the state
Republican party. New Hampshire Secretary of State William Gardner has not officially set the date.  That would mean Iowa would hold its caucuses on Jan. 3,
forcing candidates to campaign during the holiday season.  The Nevada Republican party voted on Oct. 1 to hold its
caucuses on the Saturday following the New Hampshire vote, once
that state sets its date.  First Four  With the exception of the traditional first four early-
voting states, the  Republican National Committee  had forbidden
any primary or caucus vote prior to March 6. According to the
party’s rules, any state with a contest before that date will
lose half of its convention delegates. The threat has proved
ineffective in previous years because a nominee can request that
disqualified delegates’ voting rights be restored.  Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp announced last week
that his state would hold its primary on March 6 to keep its
relevance in the nominating process without breaking party
rules.  Two other states, Arizona and  Michigan , have said that they
will set their balloting for Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  