-- 
South African PMI Climbs Above 50 as Wage Strike Impact Eases

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-03T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/south-african-pmi-climbs-above-50-as-wage-strike-impact-eases.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
index increased above 50 for the first time in three months,
signaling an expansion in manufacturing as fewer strikes
curtailed production, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index advanced to 50.7 in September
from 46.7 in August, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-
mailed statement today. The reading has been below 50,
indicating a contraction in factory output, since July.  Manufacturing slumped in the second quarter as workers in
the chemical, oil and mining sectors went on strike, crimping
growth in Africa’s biggest economy to an annualized 1.3 percent,
the slowest pace in about two years. The industry makes up about
15 percent of gross domestic product.  “The recovery in September should be seen as a move back
to a more normal situation in the absence of industrial
action,” Abdul Davids, Kagiso Asset Management’s head of
research, said in the statement. “Soft global demand should
ensure that the PMI remains relatively depressed in the
foreseeable future.”  While the index measuring new sales orders increased by 4.3
points to 48.9 last month, it remained below the 50 level for a
third consecutive month, Kagiso said. The business-activity
index gained the most of any component, rising 7 points to 53.4,
it said.  The employment index remained “stuck at very depressed
levels,” increasing to 43.8 in September from 43.1 in the
previous month, Kagiso said. South  Africa ’s unemployment rate
rose to 25.7 percent in the second quarter, the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  