-- 
South Korea’s Inflation Slows From Three-Year High as Food Prices Moderate

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-10-03T23:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/south-korea-september-consumer-prices-rise-4-3-from-year-ago.html
South Korea ’s inflation slowed in
September from the fastest increase in 3 years as food prices
moderated, while still remaining above the central bank’s target
range.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier, after
a 5.3 percent advance in August, Statistics  Korea  said today in
Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That was lower than the median
estimate of 4.5 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
economists. Prices rose 0.1 percent from August.  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo has vowed to resume
“normalizing” borrowing costs once the global economic outlook
improves and  Europe ’s debt crisis calms down. His policy board
left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third straight
month in September even as inflation exceeded the bank’s target
ceiling of 4 percent every month this year.  “The BOK will keep monetary policy on hold, at least until
the end of this year, while closely monitoring global financial
markets and the economic outlook,” said Oh Suk Tae, an
economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in  Seoul . “Headline
inflation peaked in August and will eventually return to the
BOK’s target range,” of 2 percent to 4 percent, he said.  South Korea’s consumers predict that price increases will
accelerate, with the expected inflation rate over the next 12
months at 4.3 percent in September, faster than 4.2 percent in
the previous month and the most since November 2008, a survey by
the Bank of Korea showed last week.  Core Prices  Core prices, which exclude energy and food costs, rose 3.9
percent in September from a year earlier, compared with 4
percent in the previous month, today’s report showed. Prices of
agricultural, livestock and fishery products gained 2.3 percent
from a year earlier, the report showed.  The Korean currency lost 9.5 percent to 1,178.10 per dollar
last month, the biggest decline since February 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The weaker currency may put
pressure on inflation as it boosts import costs.  “We expect headline inflation to exceed 4 percent at least
until November, and the recent surge in dollar-won exchange
rates adds to near-term inflation risks,” SC First’s Oh said.  Higher living costs have increased voters’ discontent with
President  Lee Myung Bak , whose public support dropped to 30.3
percent last month compared with 76 percent when he came to
power in February 2008, according to a Sept. 19-23 poll by
Seoul-based Realmeter. Lee said last month “there’s no perfect
solution” to accelerating inflation.  Power Prices  Korea Electric Power Corp. needs to adjust electricity
prices to “realistic” levels, Chief Executive Officer Kim
Joong Kyum said on Sept. 28. The state-run utility raised power
prices by an average 4.9 percent from Aug. 1, the first increase
in more than a year.  Helping ease inflation last month, prices of fresh food
items such as fish, fruits and vegetables fell 7.4 percent from
a year earlier and 2.7 percent from August.  Exports, which are driving growth in  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy, expanded 19.6 percent last month from a year earlier,
the slowest in three months. Factory output slid 1.9 percent in
August from July, when it fell 0.3 percent.  Manufacturers’ confidence for October held at a 21-month
low, while  consumer confidence  stayed at its lowest since March
as businesses and people braced for a global slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  