-- 
Sprint Tumbles After Report of $20 Billion IPhone Commitment

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-03T20:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sprint-tumbles-after-report-of-20-billion-commitment-for-iphone.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, tumbled after a report the
company had committed to buy at least 30.5 million iPhones over
four years, which would cost $20 billion at current rates.  Sprint fell 31 cents, or 10 percent, to $2.73 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. To win the right to carry
the device, Sprint had to commit to buying the phones from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  whether Sprint could find buyers for them or not, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  Sprint is struggling to compete against Verizon Wireless
and  AT&T Inc. (T) , the two largest U.S. wireless operators, which
are both able to offer the Apple device. In July, the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based company reported its 15th consecutive
quarterly loss and lost more contract customers than some
analysts had estimated.  Since Apple’s iPhone helps draw high-spending contract
customers, wireless operators are willing to agree to long-term
supply contracts, Mike Abramsky, an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto.  “The commitment makes sense,” said Abramsky, who has an
“overweight” rating on Apple and doesn’t cover Sprint.  The wireless operator will likely lose money on the deal
with Apple until 2014, the Wall Street Journal said, citing
people familiar with the matter. Wireless operators including
Sprint subsidize the costs of phones for consumers and make up
the money through service revenue.  Sprint plans to offer the iPhone with unlimited data
service to distinguish itself from its larger rivals, people
familiar with the matter said last month. That approach may help
the company draw customers concerned about extra charges for
using applications such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s movie service or
Pandora Media Inc.’s streaming music.  Bill White , a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment.
The company’s stock has dropped 35 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  