-- 
Sprint Urges FCC to Hold Hearings on AT&T-T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-03T20:50:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/sprint-urges-fcc-to-hold-hearings-on-proposed-at-t-t-mobile-deal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  urged the Federal
Communications Commission to quickly start hearings before an
agency judge to challenge  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc.  The FCC, which must rule on whether the transfer of
spectrum licenses from T-Mobile to AT&T serves the public
interest, is still reviewing the proposal after the U.S. Justice
Department sued to block it on Aug. 31. Combining the two
companies would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  “The exhaustive record before the commission demonstrates
that the takeover would result in substantial harms to
consumers, competition, and the public interest and cannot be
cured with conditions - it’s unfixable,” Sprint said in a
letter posted today on the FCC website.  Sprint’s push for a hearing is part of its effort to
strangle the merger, which the company, the third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, asked the commission to block on May 31. The
company also filed a separate antitrust lawsuit seeking to stop
the acquisition.  Under its statute, if the FCC can’t determine the
transaction is in the public interest, it may refer the matter
to an administrative judge for hearings that include calling
witnesses and presenting evidence. The hearings would result in
a recommendation the FCC would vote on. The agency’s decision
could be appealed with the U.S. court of appeals in  Washington .  The hearing process could take months, said Jeff Silva, a
telecommunications policy analyst with Medley Global Advisors,
LLC in Washington.  Echostar Application  The last time the FCC designated a merger application for
hearing was Echostar Communications Corp’s planned $23 billion
purchase of larger U.S. satellite-television rival DirecTV in
2002 -- the first acquisition ever to be turned down by federal
communications regulators.  “If you’re AT&T and you want this cleared up quickly, the
idea of a lengthy proceeding is like death by a thousand cuts,”
Silva said. If the FCC decided to put the transaction before an
administrative law judge, “it’s not a good sign for the
merger.”  AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said in an e-mail that
there’s “no legal or policy reason to designate the proceeding
for a hearing.”  FCC spokesman Neil Grace declined to comment on the letter.  Dish Network Corp., the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, which is considering buying a wireless carrier or
forming a partnership, also urged the FCC to designate the
transaction for hearing, according to a separate letter filed on
the FCC website Sept. 30. Public interest group  Public
Knowledge , which also opposes the transaction, asked the FCC to
block the transaction in a Sept. 1 letter posted on the FCC
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 