-- 
Stada Would Consider Merging With Branded-Drug Maker, Biotechnology Firm

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 
2011-10-03T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/stada-would-consider-merging-with-branded-drug-maker-biotech.html
Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , the generic-
drug maker whose shares have lost more than a third of their
value since it wrote down assets last month, would consider
merging with a similar-sized branded or biotechnology drugmaker,
Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Retzlaff said.  Stada “would not rule out any possible constellation as
long as it made business sense,” Retzlaff said in a Sept. 28
interview at the company’s Bad Vilbel headquarters. “One could
imagine different constellations.”  Combining with a peer would allow Stada to avoid the fate
of German competitors, which were bought by larger drugmakers.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  acquired Hexal AG in 2005 and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  snapped up Ratiopharm GmbH last year.  There are no talks under way, said Retzlaff, who didn’t
name potential merger partners. Stada would consider a biotech
or branded-drug partner because the company is already well
positioned in generics, he said.  Stada in August agreed to work together with  Hungary ’s
Gedeon Richter Nyrt. on copies of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s cancer
medicines Rituxan and Herceptin. Asked whether Richter would be
a suitable partner, he said Stada is “very happy” with the
collaboration and would need to examine how well the companies
cooperate if it were to consider a closer connection.  The biggest challenge would be to assure a fruitful
combination with a potential partner’s pipeline and production
locations, Retzlaff said.  Stock Slump  Stada fell 38 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 15.43 euros in
Frankfurt trading yesterday, giving the company a market value
of 908 million euros ($1.2 billion). The stock trades for 6.2
times this year’s estimated earnings, compared with an average
of 12.5 for European drugmakers of similar size.  The stock is so cheap now that Stada may be a takeover
target, David Adlington, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 London , said in a note to investors last week. Yet the company
may be unlikely to draw a bid because it doesn’t offer
“attractive assets that could add growth to an acquirer,”
Martin Brunninger, an analyst at Nomura Equity Research, wrote
in a report last week.  Net income fell 32 percent to 68.4 million euros last year,
hurt by rebates that drugmakers were forced to give to German
insurers, as well as the first round of Serbian writedowns.
Analysts predict Stada’s profit will rebound 17 percent this
year, based on the average of 15 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Serbian Acquisition  Stada acquired  Serbia ’s Hemofarm Koncern AD in 2006 for 480
million euros, the company’s biggest acquisition and part of a
push to shift manufacturing capacity as well as sales into
eastern  Europe . The company announced a 29.5 million-euro
writedown on unpaid bills from Serbian drug wholesalers last
year, and Sept. 21 said it would take another 97-million-euro
charge for the same reason.  Hemofarm is “really in good shape,” Retzlaff said. “The
market environment is difficult.” About 50 million euros of
Stada’s 829.7 million euros in first-half revenue came from
Serbia, he said.  Beginning Jan. 1, Stada will seek to sell directly to
pharmacies and hospitals in Serbia, or deal with the Serbian
state or Serbian health funds instead of with wholesalers as
middlemen, Retzlaff said. If sales to wholesalers are necessary,
the company would seek payment on delivery, he said.  Stada hasn’t been deterred from expansion in the east and
wants to acquire more brands in  Russia , Retzlaff said.  The company is in discussions about a  bond issue  similar in
size to its 350 million-euro placement last year, he said.  Retzlaff confirmed the company’s 2014 targets of sales of
2.15 billion euros and profit adjusted for special items of 215
million euros. Investors should expect a dividend to be paid for
this year, he said, declining to comment on the amount.  Pharmacists and doctors own about 12 percent of the shares
in Stada, which was founded in Dresden in 1895 as a pharmacists’
cooperative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  