-- 
Starbucks to Accept Donations in Cafes to Spur U.S. Hiring

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-10-03T20:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/starbucks-to-accept-donations-in-cafes-to-spur-u-s-job-growth.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, will start collecting donations online and
at some of its cafes to spur  job creation  among community
businesses in the U.S.  Starbucks will accept money beginning Nov. 1 to help fund
loans to small businesses, according to a statement today.
Seattle-based Starbucks is working with Opportunity Finance
Network, which represents institutions that provide credit to
community businesses, to form “ Create Jobs for USA .”  “We’re going to raise millions of dollars,” Starbucks
Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said today in a telephone
interview, declining to give a specific number. “This is about
Americans helping Americans,” he said. “We’re not going to
wait for  Washington .”  In August, Schultz, 58, asked fellow CEOs and business
leaders to boycott donating to U.S. political campaigns to
encourage leaders to solve the nation’s growing budget deficit.
Last month, he sent a letter to President Barack Obama and
Congress urging them to put partisanship aside to find a
solution to unemployment.  Starbucks will open at least 200 new stores and remodel
1,700 locations in the U.S. this fiscal year, which will create
“well over 2,000 jobs,” Schultz said. “Business leaders can
step up and we can create a renewed level of confidence by
investing in the economy and creating job opportunities.”  The coffee company opened 27 net new stores in the U.S. in
the quarter ended July 3.  Small Businesses  Donations will be earmarked in a special fund at
Opportunity Finance Network and distributed to 180 community-
development financial institutions that provide credit to small
businesses across the nation. Starbucks is giving $5 million to
start the fund.  The  Create Jobs  for USA website will track total donations
and project the number of jobs created, Mark Pinsky, the
president of  Opportunity Finance Network , said in an interview.
The money will finance a range of businesses including small
retailers, affordable housing developers and non-profit
organizations, he said.  Donors who give $5 or more will receive a red, white and
blue wristband with the word “indivisible,” Starbucks said.
There are more than 10,900 Starbucks locations in the U.S. and
6,800 will be collecting money.  Starbucks fell $1.09, or 2.9 percent, to $36.20 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have gained
13 percent this year.  “Fiscal year 2012 will be filled with strong levels of
innovation within all categories of Starbucks,” Schultz said.
“Food will be a big part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  