-- 
States Improving Revenue Seize Gift Unseen Since Clinton Era: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/states-improving-revenue-seize-gift-unseen-since-clinton-era-muni-credit.html
Like homeowners refinancing their
mortgages at the lowest  interest rates  since 1971, U.S. states
and municipalities are slashing debt-service costs by selling
new securities to replace costlier borrowings from past years.  Interest rates on 30-year top-rated tax-exempt bonds last
week were close to the lowest level since 1991 at 3.88 percent,
according to Bloomberg Fair Value index data. The yields
followed the direction of 30-year Treasuries, which are used as
a benchmark for home-lending rates.  Lower yields are helping states and localities cut
borrowing costs as they marked their seventh-straight quarter of
revenue growth over the previous year, the  U.S. Census Bureau 
said last week. The last time governments enjoyed such an
extended combination of falling interest rates and rising
revenue was from June 1996 to September 1998, when  Bill Clinton 
was in the White House.  “Especially in times like these where the budgets are so
strained, you don’t want to miss an opportunity to reduce your
debt-service costs,” Chris Mier, a managing director at Loop
Capital Markets LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  The increase in municipal refunding follows U.S. mortgage
rates plunging to the lowest level in Freddie Mac’s records
after the  Federal Reserve  on Sept. 21 said it would buy long-
term Treasuries. A Mortgage Bankers Association index of
refinancings rose 11 percent in the week ended Sept. 23.  From April 1996 to September 1998, when the  U.S. economy 
was growing by about 4 percent annually, state and local revenue
increased for 10 consecutive quarters year-over-year. Yields on
top-rated municipal bonds maturing in 30 years fell to 4.78
percent from 5.77 percent in the period, according to Bloomberg
Fair Value data.  Oklahoma’s Opportunity  Municipalities have refinanced debt, reduced employee
payrolls and cut capital projects to balance budgets. States
have faced budget deficits totaling $511 billion in the past
four years, data from the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  show.  California saved $152 million when it refinanced $1.1
billion of general-obligation debt on Sept. 20. Municipalities
refunded $36 billion from July through September, the most in a
third-quarter since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In an effort to capture the lower borrowing costs, Oklahoma
Turnpike Authority, the second-biggest U.S. highway agency by
miles, plans to refund $521.8 million Oct. 5 for an estimated
$20 million of savings, Wendy Smith, the authority’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview from  Oklahoma
City .  Projected Savings  The projected savings are twice what the authority spent on
turnpike maintenance in the first six months of 2011, according
to bond documents.  The securities are rated Aa3, Moody’s Investors Service’s
fourth-highest grade. The offering will convert variable-rate
debt into fixed-rate bonds and cover the $51 million estimated
cost of terminating two swaps, Smith said.  “We have $530 million worth of variable rate debt --that’s
about 54 percent of our debt -- and we’d like to get it down
closer to 30 percent,” she said.  The authority has a total of five derivative contracts with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG. The
five swaps have a negative mark-to-market value of $127.5
million, according to a Moody’s report. The agency wants to exit
two of the swaps and the banks will bid against each other on
Oct. 4 with the turnpike authority selecting the lowest
termination fees, Smith said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs and  Justin Perras  at JPMorgan, both declined to comment. UBS didn’t
immediately provide comment.  The agency projects it will collect $229 million of toll
revenue in 2011, increasing each year to $271.5 million in 2020,
according to the preliminary official statement.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
Debt:  PALM BEACH COUNTY SOLID WASTE AUTHORITY, which provides
solid waste and recycling services to 1.4 million residents and
businesses in the county, plans to sell $600 million of revenue
bonds as soon as this week to refund debt. The bonds are rated
AA+,  Standard & Poor’s  second-highest grade. Citigroup Inc. will
lead a syndicate of banks on the transaction. (Added Oct. 3)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  