-- 
Strategic Mortgage Delinquencies as High as 27%

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-10-03T18:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/strategic-mortgage-delinquencies-as-high-as-27-jpmorgan-says.html
The number of borrowers choosing to
fall behind on payments on U.S. home loans packaged into bonds
without government backing has held steady over the past year,
meaning the “strategic delinquencies” account for a larger
share of new late payments, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Strategic delinquencies, or mortgages that turn 60 days
late after home-price drops wipe out the equity of homeowners
who are remaining current on other debt, totaled between about
12,000 and 14,000 a month over the past year among the loans,
JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  wrote in a Sept. 30 report.  “The more sophisticated prime and Alt-A borrowers are
significantly more likely to choose to go delinquent, even when
they appear to have the means to continue paying,” the New
York-based analysts said.  The share of strategic delinquencies among the total has
risen to about 26 percent to 27 percent from 20 percent a year
ago, according to the report.  Amherst Securities Group LP analyst  Laurie Goodman  said
lenders need to reduce principal for homeowners to stem the
foreclosure crisis, which otherwise may engulf more than 10
million additional properties, she estimated.  A record of almost 33 percent of the $1.2 trillion of so-
called securitized non-agency loans are at least 30 days
delinquent, in foreclosure or have been turned into seized
property, according to Bloomberg data based on August bond
reports. That also reflects a slowdown in liquidations of bad
loans amid probes into servicers’ use of flawed paperwork.  California Rejection  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said on Sept. 30
that she is rejecting a proposed nationwide settlement with U.S.
banks over their foreclosure practices, after reports that the
deal might have included money to fund principal forgiveness and
other loan modifications. She said the proposed agreement is
“inadequate.”  About 10.88 million homes, or 22.5 percent of those with a
mortgage, were “underwater” as of June 30, according to
CoreLogic Inc., a  Santa Ana , California-based real-estate data
provider.  Home prices  around 20 of the U.S. largest cities have
tumbled almost 31 percent from their July 2006 peak, according
to an S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Values will probably fall an additional 7 percent until
bottoming next year, according to the JPMorgan analysts, who
were the top-ranked for non-agency mortgage securities in
Institutional Investor magazine’s 2011 poll.  Jumbo Loans  The share of strategic delinquencies among prime non-agency
mortgages, which were typically jumbo loans larger than
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  could finance,
is now almost 40 percent, up from about 30 percent a year,
according to their report.  For Alt-A loans, considered between prime and subprime in
terms of expected defaults, the share is about 35 percent, up
from about 30 percent. For subprime loans, the amount is about
25 percent, up from less than 20 percent, their report showed.  The ratio is about 15 percent for loans less than $100,000,
compared with almost 35 percent for mortgage larger than
$400,000, according to the analysts. The share among borrowers
with the highest credit scores was more than 40 percent,
compared with about 20 percent for those with the lowest.  About 10,000 homes a month are being liquidated following
strategic defaults on securitized non-agency mortgages, a figure
that has also held steady, they said. The loans represent about
12 percent of total U.S. home-mortgage debt, according to
Federal Reserve data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  