-- 
High Court May Enter 2012 Election With Politicized Docket

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-03T15:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/supreme-court-may-enter-2012-election-with-politicized-docket.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  may be thrust
into the 2012 election campaign with potential cases on
President Barack Obama’s health-care law, illegal immigration
and affirmative action in the term that started today.  The nine-month session already includes fights over police
use of tracking devices and nudity on broadcast television, and
review of the health-care law is likely after the Obama
administration asked last week for a hearing.  The court may increase the stakes by taking up appeals that
aim to limit the use of race by university admissions offices
and bolster the power of states to crack down on illegal
immigration.  “This term could turn out to be one of the most momentous
Supreme Court terms in decades,” said Elizabeth Wydra, chief
counsel of the Washington-based Constitutional Accountability
Center, which advocates for civil rights and broad federal
power.  The court would probably decide the health-care, admissions
and immigration cases at the close of its term in late June,
less than five months before the November election.  The justices opened their term today with arguments in a
case that may determine whether health-care providers can sue
over cuts in the federal-state Medicaid program for the poor.
The court also issued an 89-page list of orders, including
single-sentence rejections of almost 2,000 appeals.  Rejected Cases  The court today rejected a bid by  AT&T Inc. (T)  for a $500
million  tax refund  and refused to open wireless-phone
manufacturers and retailers to a suit contending the devices may
cause  brain cancer . The court also refused to halt a proposed 
investor class-action suit against  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and turned 
away a bid to sue  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit for
allegedly paying 700 black financial advisers less than their
white counterparts.  Health care alone would create the rare if not
unprecedented scenario of an election-year Supreme Court ruling
on a president’s signature legislative accomplishment. Lower
courts are divided on the constitutionality of the measure and
its requirement that Americans either acquire insurance or pay a
penalty. Both the Obama administration and a group of 26 states
opposing the law filed Supreme Court appeals last week.  Campaign Issue  A ruling striking down the health-care law would set up the
court as a campaign issue for Obama, said Lucas A. Powe Jr., a
Supreme Court historian who teaches at the University of Texas
School of Law in Austin. The president already has targeted the
Supreme Court once, using his 2010 State of the Union address to
criticize the court’s decision letting corporations spend
unlimited sums on political advertising.  “If they strike down the law, Obama is going to be on the
warpath,” Powe said. The court hasn’t been a major campaign
issue since 1968, when  Richard Nixon  attacked criminal law
rulings issued by the court under Chief Justice  Earl Warren .  A ruling on the health-care law would provide fodder for
Republican candidates, who are campaigning against the measure.
If a ruling favors Obama, his opponents would highlight the
prospect of vacancies on the high court, saying a Republican
should be in office to fill it, said Stephen Wayne, a professor
of government at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  “They’ll say that’s why we need to make sure the court
reflects American public opinion,” Wayne said.  Race and Ethnicity  The immigration and university admissions cases would
inject race and ethnicity into the political mix. The
immigration case stems from  Arizona ’s first-of-its-kind law
requiring local police officers to check the status of people
stopped for questioning. Five other states have since enacted
similar laws.  The Obama administration sued to challenge the Arizona
measure, and a federal appeals court blocked it from taking
effect. The panel said the state was interfering with the
national government’s authority over immigration policy.  Arizona is now  seeking  Supreme Court review, arguing that
federal officials have been lax in securing the nation’s borders
and that U.S. immigration law lets states step into the void.  “The burden’s on the federal government to explain why it
is that immigration is sufficiently different from every other
area of the law that a state can’t effectively try to enforce
the federal substantive law,” said  Paul Clement , a Washington
lawyer and former U.S. solicitor general who represents Arizona
in the case.  Affirmative Action  The affirmative action appeal asks the Supreme Court to
reconsider, or at least limit, its 2003 ruling upholding the use
of race as a factor in university admissions decisions for
purposes of classroom diversity.  The  appeal  is being pressed by Abigail Fisher, a rejected
white applicant to the  University of Texas  at Austin. The
university uses a hybrid system that combines racial preferences
with a rule that guarantees admission to Texans who graduate in
the top 10 percent of their high school class.  The composition of the Supreme Court has changed since
2003, most notably through the retirement of the earlier
ruling’s author,  Sandra Day O’Connor , and the appointment of
 Samuel Alito  to succeed her. Alito was in the majority in a 2007
decision that put new limits on public school integration
efforts.  ‘Anxiety and Nervousness’  Among affirmative action backers, “there is a certain
amount of anxiety and nervousness about the UT case,” said
Sherrilyn Ifill, a professor at the  University of Maryland 
School of Law in  College Park .  The broadcasting case, likely to be argued in January, is
perhaps the most significant of the court’s business cases. The
court will decide whether federal regulators are violating the
Constitution by imposing fines for on-air profanities and
nudity. The case involves expletives uttered on two Fox network
award shows and a scene with a naked woman on ABC’s “NYPD
Blue.”  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC are asking the
court to overturn decades-old rulings that give the Federal
Communications Commission more authority to regulate programming
on broadcast stations than on cable or satellite.  The networks have reason for optimism, said John Elwood, a
Washington appellate lawyer at Vinson & Elkins LLP. In an
earlier phase of the litigation, several justices pointed to
First Amendment concerns about the FCC crackdown. And in its
most recent term, the justices ruled in favor of speech rights
in four cases.  ‘Uphill Battle’  Government lawyers “have something of an uphill battle”
in defending the policy, said Elwood, a former law clerk to
Justice  Anthony Kennedy .  In another case, the question is whether police need a
warrant before they can place a tracking device on a car to
monitor a criminal suspect’s movements over the course of weeks.  The case will mark the first time the high court has
considered how the constitutional ban on unreasonable searches
applies to global positioning systems, better known as GPS
devices. The case is set for argument Nov. 8.  Other cases already on the docket involve the deadlines for
filing some securities-fraud suits, patent protection for
diagnostic medical tests and strip-searches of newly arrested
people.  “Not a lot of the cases are all that sexy at the moment,
but there’s some pretty significant stuff on the horizon,”
Elwood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  