-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop for Second Day; UBS, Credit Suisse Lead Slide

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-03T16:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/swiss-stocks-drop-for-third-day-in-four-bank-shares-decline.html
Swiss stocks retreated for a second
day, extending their biggest quarterly drop since June 2010,
amid concern global economic growth is slowing and that a
possible Greek default could hurt banks’ balance sheets.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  dropped more than 4
percent.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN) , the textile-machinery maker, lost 3
percent.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
climbed 5.7 percent after a report that board member Thomas Schmidheiny will increase his stake.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, declined 0.7 percent to 5,495.69 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. A technical glitch halted price
updates for about two hours. The gauge has tumbled 15 percent
this year as disappointing European and U.S. economic reports
added to concern that the global recovery is faltering. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.7 percent today.  European Union finance chiefs are meeting today in
Luxembourg to weigh the threat of a Greek default, grapple with
how to shield banks from the fallout and consider a further
boost to the region’s rescue fund.  “New statements on how banks can be protected from a
possible collapse of  Greece  are expected from today’s meeting of
the EU finance ministers,” Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner
Kantonalbank in Lucerne, wrote in a note to clients. “It will
be the financial shares that are going to be under pressure the
most.”  ‘Liquidity Backstop’  A much-needed “liquidity backstop” for the region must
come from governments because the  European Central Bank ’s
mandate requires it to keep purchases of sovereign debt
“extremely limited,” said Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer , who is also a member of the ECB. He added that he is
“open” to the idea of using borrowed money to enhance the
capabilities of a European rescue fund.  “It would be unrealistic to expect an increase in the EFSF
itself,” Noyer said, referring to the European Financial
Stability Facility. “But I am personally open to any scheme
that would allow existing commitments to be leveraged to provide
greater intervention capacity.”  Today was the original target for approving an 8 billion-
euro ($11 billion) loan payment to Greece, the sixth installment
of a 110 billion-euro lifeline put together in May 2010. That
decision has been pushed back until mid-October as Greece seeks
to repair its finances. The new measures will help cut the
deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product from 8.5
percent this year, the  finance ministry  said last night.  ISM Index  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in
September. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
climbed to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August. A reading of 50
is the dividing line between contraction and expansion.
Economists had projected the measure to fall to 50.5, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  An indicator of Swiss manufacturing output fell for the
first time in more than two years in September, adding to the
signs of a deepening economic slump.  The Procure.ch Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 48.2 from
51.7 in August when adjusted for seasonal swings, Zurich-based
Credit Suisse Group said. That’s the first contraction since
August 2009. Economists projected the gauge to fall to 50.5, the
median of 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey showed. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  “We remain cautious on equities,” Dirk Wiedmann, chief
investment officer at Rothschild Private Banking & Trust in
Zurich, wrote in a report. “Markets are priced for very weak
growth, but are not yet braced for another long downturn. While
valuations are generally supportive, they often take a back seat
at times when volatility is high.”  Banks Slide  UBS slid 4.3 percent to 10.09 Swiss francs. The bank’s
rating was cut to “equal weight” from “overweight” by Morgan
Stanley analysts. Huw van Steenis and Hubert Lam also reduced
their price estimate for the stock to 13 francs from 15 francs,
saying “the market may underestimate how many years it may take
for UBS to restructure.”  A gauge of European banks was the second-worst performer of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Credit
Suisse fell 4.6 percent to 22.90 francs while Julius Baer Group
Ltd., the 121-year-old wealth manager, slipped 1 percent to
30.40 francs.  Rieter Holding slumped 3 percent to 141.10 francs. The
company may see lower operating margins this year and a decline
in sales in 2012, Chairman Erwin Stoller said in an interview
with Finanz und Wirtschaft newspaper.  Tecan Group AG (TECN) , a maker of  laboratory equipment , dropped
3.5 percent to 63 francs as Carla Baenziger, an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, cut the company’s stock to “hold” from
“buy.”  Holcim gained 5.7 percent to 51.45 francs, its highest
price in two months. Schmidheiny said he plans to increase his
stake to 20 percent from 18 percent, without specifying when,
SonntagsZeitung reported, citing an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  