-- 
Swiss Brides Buy Cover Against Wedding Crash

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-10-03T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/swiss-brides-buy-cover-against-wedding-crash-as-economy-slows.html
Corina Suter can’t afford to take any
chances as she plans her wedding on a Swiss mountaintop next
June. Should disaster strike, her insurance kicks in.  Suter, 29, a human-resources specialist from the canton of
Zug, paid 69 Swiss francs ($78) for a policy from Zurich
Financial Services AG that covers her 20,000-franc nuptials
against cancellation. That includes no-shows by the bride, groom
and their parents because of illness, bad weather and  power
outage , and even the risk of the caterer being shut down by
health inspectors.  “It’s for my own peace of mind,” said Suter, who plans to
marry Marco Kryenbuehl. “It would be a double whammy if
something happens and we would lose the money as well.”  For Suter and other brides following in the footsteps of
 Audrey Hepburn , who married actor Mel Ferrer in Switzerland in
1954, a mix of austerity and higher wedding costs has boosted
the appeal of insurance. Zurich Financial started selling
policies in January through about 300  Valora Holding AG (VALN)  kiosks,
which also stock magazines and chewing gum.  “In difficult economic times, people take fewer financial
risks,” said Patric Deflorin, head of market management at
Zurich Financial’s Swiss unit. “Many just cannot afford to foot
the bill for a canceled wedding. This will positively affect the
sale of wedding insurance.”  Wedding Costs  The price of a wedding has almost doubled to about 30,000
francs over the past 10 years, said Deflorin, who declined to
disclose the Zurich-based company’s wedding insurance premiums.
The average cost of a wedding in the U.S. rose almost 23 percent
to $24,066 last year, according to Tucson, Arizona-based  the
Wedding Report, Inc.   Switzerland’s economic indicator, a monthly gauge that aims
to predict the economy’s direction about six months ahead, fell
to the lowest in two years in September, the KOF Swiss Economic
Institute in Zurich said, adding to signs of a deepening
slowdown. Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said
last week that economic expansion will weaken in the second half
of this year, partly because of a stronger currency.  Higher costs and tougher economic times increase the need
for security, said Caterina Pelosato, a wedding planner from
Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland , who is advising Suter and Kryenbuehl.
While the policies may seem unromantic, celebrity weddings and
movies such as the Wedding Planner, starring  Jennifer Lopez ,
have upped the financial pressure on ordinary couples, said
Pelosato, who offers the insurance to every client.  Royal Weddings  “They spend much more money on their wedding than 10 or 15
years ago because people have become more demanding and the
offering more versatile, and also because of the influence of
media, Hollywood movies or royal weddings, which people want to
copy,” she said. “There only has to be a volcanic eruption in
Iceland for a wedding to be postponed and the bride and groom
face additional costs.”  Royal bride  Kate Middleton  picked British label  Alexander McQueen  for her wedding dress when she married  Prince William ,
second in line to the British throne, in front of about 1,900
guests in Westminster Abbey this April.  For the moment, this type of insurance remains a niche
business, even in the U.S., where less than 2 percent of the 2.4
million weddings each year are insured, according to insurance
broker Robert Nuccio.  Four years ago, Nuccio added a “change of heart” clause,
for cases where a bride or groom backs out, to the standard
wedding insurance policy. That cover, which only kicks in if the
wedding is called off 180 days in advance, is offered by
Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co., the U.S. unit of  Europe ’s biggest
insurer,  Allianz SE .  Change of Heart  “It’s either the most brilliant thing I’ve ever done, or
the dumbest,” said Nuccio, adding that the percentage of claims
for change of heart is “very high.” “You are not supposed to
buy fire insurance if your house is already burning.”  Change of heart coverage starts from about $10 and while
the total policy may cost as much as $300, that “is no more
expensive than inviting one less guest,” said Janet Ruiz, a
spokeswoman for Novato, California-based Fireman’s Fund.  In Europe, insuring against cold feet isn’t common practice
yet because deciding against going through with a wedding is so-
called willful intent, according to Barbara Koester-Heck, a
broker with Aon, the world’s largest insurance broker.  That doesn’t bother Suter, who is more concerned about
finding the right dress and booking a venue after her first
choice was already taken.  “There’s a lot of pressure and it’s easy to underestimate
how long a wedding takes to plan,” she said. “The insurance
gives me certainty that not all is lost if something happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  