-- 
Switzerland Leapfrogs U.S. to Top Financial Secrecy List

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-04T09:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/switzerland-leapfrogs-delaware-to-top-financial-secrecy-ranking.html
Switzerland  climbed to the top of a
financial secrecy index, even after a global crackdown on tax
evasion, according to a report from the Tax Justice Network.  The Alpine country, whose secrecy laws date back to 1934,
was followed by The  Cayman Islands , Luxembourg and  Hong Kong ,
the London-based Tax Justice Network said. The U.S., which
topped a 2009 index through the state of  Delaware , was placed
fifth in a study of 72 tax jurisdictions published today.  While Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to meet
international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development , the country continues to resist the automatic
exchange of information, the Tax Justice Network said.
Agreements signed in August with the U.K. and  Germany  to end
disputes over tax evasion will “entrench Swiss banking
secrecy,” according to the study.  “Both agreements lack transparency,” said Bruno Gurtner,
chairman of the Tax Justice Network’s board of directors.
“Banks say they will follow a white money strategy, but in
practice it’s still possible to find ways to hold black money.”  Under the August agreements, Swiss banks will levy a
withholding tax on  capital gains  earned by Britons and Germans
with offshore accounts. Revenue generated will go to the British
and German treasuries, while client identities remain secret.  ‘Criminal Elites’  The U.K. and German deals “demonstrate that politicians in
all three countries are prepared to protect a secrecy industry
that operates in the service of criminal elites,” the study
said. “Although Switzerland has signed a number of OECD-style
information exchange agreements, which have allowed a limited
penetration of Switzerland’s fabled bank secrecy, we consider
these operationally ineffective.”  Swiss banks have boosted their share of offshore wealth by
attracting illicit flows from developing countries and as the
appeal of Switzerland as a safe haven from  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis increased, the study said.  The index used 15 indicators, including bank secrecy,
corporate transparency regulations and the efficiency of tax
rules, to produce a score for each jurisdiction. That secrecy
score was given greater weight in this year’s index compared
with 2009, when the size of a financial center had greater
influence, the study said.  “The financial secrecy index reveals how the G20 is only
chipping away at the outer shell of financial markets’
secrecy,” said John Christensen, director of the Tax Justice
Network. “Powerful countries like Switzerland, Britain and the
U.S. still block progress.”  ‘Weak Settlements’  The Dodd-Frank legislation, requiring companies listed in
the U.S. to adopt country-by-country reporting, has improved the
ranking of the U.S., the study said. While “pernicious secrecy
facilities” still exist at state level, the ongoing crackdown
on  tax evasion  by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service also stands
out, the Tax Justice Network said.  “While major OECD partner countries like the U.K. and
Germany have been negotiating pernicious and weak settlements
with Switzerland on information exchange, the U.S. authorities
continue to apply robust pressure on Swiss banks,” according to
the study.  Hong Kong and sixth-ranked  Singapore  have attracted
“illicit funds” following a crackdown on tax evasion in the
U.S. and Europe, the Tax Justice Network said, adding that Swiss
and U.K. banks have become increasingly active in these
financial centers.  Chinese Support  “Chinese élites use Hong Kong to evade Chinese taxes,
criminal laws and much more,” the study said. “Chinese support
has enabled Hong Kong to resist pressure from the OECD and other
quarters to improve transparency.”  The other jurisdictions in the top 10 for financial secrecy
are  Jersey ,  Japan , Germany and Bahrain.  “Germany offers widespread tax exemptions for non-
residents, particularly from  developing countries , and this,
combined with its secrecy facilities, has sucked in massive
illicit financial flows,” according to the study. “The recent
freezing of billions of dollars of deposed Arab despots
undoubtedly represents the tip of a much larger iceberg.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  