-- 
Syria Forces Kill 10 Protesters as Dissidents Form Council to Unseat Assad

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-10-03T07:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/syria-forces-kill-10-protesters-as-dissidents-form-council-to-unseat-assad.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 10 protesters demanding the ouster of President Bashar al- Assad as dissidents created a council to coordinate efforts to
end his 11-year rule.  The killings occurred yesterday in the central governorate
of Homs, the northern province of Idlib and the southern area of
Daraa, where the uprising against Assad began in March, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by
phone today. Government agents carried out raids on homes
overnight and into the early morning, arresting many in the
suburbs of the capital Damascus, he said.  The crackdown came as some fragmented opposition groups
formed the Syrian National Council, which they said will be the
sole representative of Syrians seeking a regime change. The
council includes the head of  Syria ’s Muslim Brotherhood, an
Islamic political party banned in the country, as well as
Kurdish groups, Burhan Ghalioun, a member of the council, told
reporters in Istanbul yesterday.  “The council is not representative of all Syrians and one
could say this is an attempt to capitalize and manipulate the
feelings of those inside Syria who are against the regime,”
Merhi said.  Ghalioun, a political sociologist at Paris’s Sorbonne
University, invited other groups to join the council and said
Assad’s crackdown threatens Syria with civil war.  Libyan Example  Syria’s opposition is following the path taken by  Libya ’s
rebels, who formed a National Transitional Council that became
the main governing authority in the North African country in
late August after rebels seized Tripoli, the capital, and ended
Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade rule.  The Syrian protests are part of the wave of unrest across
the  Middle East  and North Africa that unseated governments in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. Assad’s crackdown has left more than
3,600 civilians dead since the unrest began in March, according
to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria. About 30,000 people have been detained and 13,000 are
still being held, according to Qurabi and Merhi.  There have been intensive clashes in the past week between
state forces and soldiers who have defected, mainly in the
central governorate of Homs, according to activists as well as
witnesses and protesters interviewed by  Al Arabiya  and Al
Jazeera news networks.  The defectors have left Rastan, near Homs, where the
clashes occurred, and the Syrian army is now in control of the
area, Merhi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  