-- 
U.K. Stocks Slide for Fourth Day; Banks, Miners Lead Decline

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-03T16:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-k-stocks-slide-as-raw-materials-fall-rio-bhp-billiton-drop.html
U.K. stocks declined for a fourth
day, their longest falling streak in eight weeks, as commodity
and bank shares slid due to concern that the global economy is
faltering and the Greek debt crisis is deepening.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s biggest
mining companies, retreated 1.6 percent and 2.4 percent
respectively as copper slid to a 14-month low in  London .
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell
more than 4 percent as euro-area finance ministers meet to
decide whether Greece will receive another aid tranche.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 52.98 points, or 1
percent, to 5,075.5 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London after
earlier declining as much as 2.8 percent. The index rose 1.2
percent last week as policy makers increased their efforts to
contain the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis. The gauge lost 14
percent in the third quarter, its biggest drop since 2002, amid
concern that  Greece ’s debt woes will spread to other countries
in the region and that the economy is stalling.  The broader FTSE All-Share Index also decreased 1 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.5 percent.  “It’s Greece, Greece and then some more Greece,” said
Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen. “European finance ministers are deciding today on
whether Greece should get its next tranche of fiscal aid.
Commodities are falling as fears spread the European crisis will
really hurt global growth.”  Euro-Area Meeting  The ministers gathering in Luxembourg today will grapple
with how to shield banks from the debt crisis and will consider
a further boost to the region’s rescue fund. The Greek
government said the country’s cabinet approved 6.6 billion euros
($8.8 billion) of austerity measures last night as part of
efforts to secure a pending aid payment needed to avoid default.  U.K. stocks pared losses as a gauge of U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly rose, easing concern the world’s largest economy is
stalling. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
climbed to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said. A level of 50 is the dividing line
between growth and contraction.  Manufacturing in the U.K. unexpectedly increased in
September from a 26-month low as producers attempted to clear
backlogs of orders and companies launched new products and
advertising campaigns. An index based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply ,
rose to 51.1, the highest reading in three months, from a
revised 49.4 in August.  The median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for the measure to fall to 48.5 from an initially
reported 49. A level above 50 indicates expansion.  BHP Billiton , Rio Tinto  The world’s two biggest miners, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto,
fell 1.6 percent to 1,710 pence and 2.4 percent to 2,819.5 pence
respectively. A gauge of miners listed in London slipped 1.7
percent as copper fell to its lowest since July 2010 on the
London Metals Exchange.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , the St. Helier,  Jersey , Channel
Island-based goldminer, gained 3.7 percent to 6,520 pence as
gold advanced.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , a Mexican silver and goldminer,
rose 1.1 percent to 1,604 pence.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said it
would be “inappropriate” for banks to reduce capital and
liquidity levels to stimulate credit supply as members discussed
measures to boost financial stability.  “By reducing ratios at a time of elevated risks, market
participants might well come to see banks as being more fragile,
and they might interpret regulatory advice to cut buffers as a
signal that banks were more fragile than previously had been
thought,” it said in the minutes of its Sept. 20 meeting
published in London today.  RBS, Barclays Fall  A gauge of U.K. banks declined 2.8 percent.  Standard
Chartered  declined 4.5 percent to 1,229.5 pence, Royal Bank of
 Scotland  slid 4.4 percent to 22.46 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  fell
3.2 percent to 156.25 pence.  Aviva Plc, the second-biggest U.K. insurer, declined 5.5
percent to 288.6 pence after Taipei-based Commercial Times
reported Aviva may cut its stake in its insurance joint venture
with First Financial Holding to less than 10 percent from 49
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  