-- 
U.K. Examining Credit Easing to Boost Companies, Osborne Says

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-03T12:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-k-examining-credit-easing-to-boost-companies-osborne-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the Treasury will look at ways of funneling money
directly to British companies, a measure he described as
“credit easing” that will complement the central bank’s
monetary policy.  “There is more the government can do to get credit
flowing,” Osborne told supporters at the Conservative Party’s
annual conference in Manchester,  England , today. “I will get
the Treasury to work to direct money into the economy. It’s
known as credit easing. It’s another form of monetary
activism.”  The practice of credit easing allows authorities to buy
private-sector assets to increase liquidity and credit in the
economy. The Treasury is looking at three options, according to
an official at the department: instructing the  Bank of England 
to buy corporate bonds; encouraging a secondary market for loans
to small companies; or co-funding loans to such companies
directly.  Osborne is facing pressure to stimulate economic activity
amid a slowdown triggered in part by the debt crisis in  Europe .
He resisted calls to ease his deficit-reduction plans, saying it
would risk Britain’s “priceless” standing with investors.  A plan to eliminate the structural deficit by 2015 by
introducing the deepest public spending cuts since World War II
has been the centerpiece of government policy, drawing criticism
from the opposition Labour Party and unions, which say they’re
leading to stagnation.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for U.K.
economic growth last month to 1.1 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2012 from previous projections of 1.5 percent and 2.3
percent respectively. U.K. consumer confidence fell to a four-
month low in August as Britons grew more pessimistic about the
outlook for the economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  Osborne said agreements to prevent the euro-region debt
crisis spreading beyond Greece would provide the single largest
boost to the U.K. economy, saying the failure to find solutions
was proving “debilitating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  