-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Index Rises as Factories Clear Order Backlogs

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-03T09:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-k-cips-sept-manufacturing-index-unexpectedly-rises-to-51-1.html
A U.K. manufacturing index
unexpectedly increased in September from a 26-month low as
producers attempted to clear backlogs of orders.  The gauge, based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply, rose to 51.1, the
highest reading in three months, from a revised 49.4 in August,
according to an e-mailed report in London today. The median
forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for the
measure to fall to 48.5 from an initially reported 49. A level
above 50 indicates expansion.  Output rose last month as factories depleted backlogs of
work at the fastest pace for two years, while promotional
activity and new product launches also provided a boost, CIPS
Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said. Manufacturing activity
shrank in the euro area and  Switzerland  in September, according
to separate reports today.  Bank of England  officials will meet
this week to consider whether to restart its bond-purchase
program to aid growth.  “The U.K. manufacturing figures will offer some cause for
relief,” Noble said in a statement. “However, we are still a
long way off from celebrating. The overall picture is rather
downbeat as growth for the third quarter is well below the
average and employment continues to fall, adding to a subdued
mood.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
report was published. It traded at $1.5516 as of 10:06 a.m. in
London, down 0.4 percent from yesterday.  Faltering Recovery  The U.K.’s economic recovery is faltering as the global
economy slows,  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on the largest market
for British goods and the government implements the biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II to narrow the  budget deficit .  The Bank of England may resume its bond-purchase program on
Oct. 6, according to nine out of 30 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That’s the highest proportion since November 2009,
when the central bank last expanded the program.
The rest say the bank will hold the program at 200 billion
pounds ($311 billion).  All 53 economists in a separate survey see no change in the
Bank of England’s key interest rate, which is at a record low of
0.5 percent.  U.S. factory-output growth probably slowed in September,
economists said before a report today. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index fell to 50.3 last month from
50.6 in August, according to the median estimate of 67
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Tempe, Arizona-based
group will release the ISM results at 10 a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  