-- 
U.K.’s AAA Grade Affirmed at S&P as Osborne Sticks to Deficit-Cutting Plan

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-03T11:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-k-s-aaa-grade-affirmed-at-s-p-as-osborne-sticks-to-deficit-cutting-plan.html
The U.K.’s top credit rating was
affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , which said it it expects the
coalition government to enact “the bulk” of its plan to reduce
the  budget deficit .  “We expect the U.K. political consensus on fiscal policy
will broadly hold for the near future, and that the government
will implement the measures specified in its 2010 fiscal
consolidation program,” S&P said in a statement in  London 
today. It said the outlook on the AAA rating is “stable.”  The ratings company also said Britain’s “lackluster”
recovery will face pressure from Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s fiscal squeeze. The economy may expand about
1.8 percent on average through 2014, less than the 2.5 percent
rate forecast by the  Office for Budget Responsibility , the
government’s fiscal watchdog, it said.  Speaking at the Conservative Party conference in Manchester
today, Osborne said he’ll freeze local taxes for a second year
to help voters struggling with falling living standards as he
implements the deepest cuts since World War II. He also said he
will stick to his deficit-reduction plan as scaling it back
would amount to “abandoning” credibility.  Bank of England  policy makers debated adding more stimulus
to the economy last month in a meeting that was “finely
balanced.” They will probably leave the key interest rate and
bond-purchase program on hold this week, two surveys of
economists by Bloomberg News show.  “Monetary policy should, in our view, provide some support
to the economy, as low  interest rates  keep private-sector debt-
servicing costs low, and the currency at competitive levels,”
S&P said.  The yield on 10-year gilts fell 6 basis points to 2.37
percent as of 12:10 p.m. in London. The pound fell for a second
day against the dollar, slipping 0.5 percent to $1.5512, It
pound weakened 0.2 percent versus the euro to 86.05 pence.  The U.K. suffered a credit-rating scare in 2009, when S&P
lowered the outlook to “negative” amid concerns on the public
finances. The outlook was restored to “stable” in October
2010, five months after the coalition government took office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  