-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Growth Probably Stagnated

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-03T10:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-manufacturing-probably-grew-at-slowest-pace-in-two-years.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded in September at the slowest pace in more than two years
as the economic recovery showed signs of stalling, economists
said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index was
little changed at 50.3 last month from 50.6 in August, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. A level of 50
is the dividing line between growth and contraction.
Construction spending fell in August, another report may show.  American producers faced with slower U.S. demand are
banking on sustained sales to emerging economies like  China  that
have also shown signs of cooling. In an effort to provide a
boost for the recovery as concerns of a European sovereign debt
default roil financial markets, the  Federal Reserve  last month
announced another round of unconventional policy.  “Manufacturing is continuing to grow, though certainly at
a much slower pace than earlier in the year,” said  Eric Green ,
chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York .
“ Capital investment  continues to grow at a slower pace.
Ultimately activity will be driven by how events unfold in
 Europe .”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s survey results will be
released at 10 a.m. New York time. Estimates from 67 economists
ranged from 45 to 52. While 50 is the midway point between
expansion and contraction in the industry, a reading greater
than 42.5 generally indicates an expansion in the overall
economy, the group says.  European Manufacturing  European manufacturing shrank for a second month in
September, adding to signs the euro-area economy is close to
recession. A factory gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 48.5 from 49 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today.  Recently released surveys provided a mixed picture of U.S.
manufacturing. Business at New York-region factories shrank for
a fourth straight month in September and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area contracted for a third time in four months,
figures from the Fed showed. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. last week said its U.S. business
barometer rose in September to the highest level in three
months.  “Significant headwinds continue to challenge the broader
recovery from the 2008 financial crisis,” David Sylvester,
chief financial officer at office equipment-maker  Steelcase
Inc. (SCS) , said in a Sept. 22 conference call with analysts. “We
could feel these pressures again if companies choose to behave
conservatively and pull back on spending because of the
uncertain landscape.”  Stocks Declined  Stocks had their biggest quarterly drop since 2008 from
July through September on concerns that Europe’s debt crisis
will trigger a global recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has declined for five straight months, the longest since the
same period ended March 2008.  After reaching an almost seven-year high of 61.4 in
February, the ISM factory gauge has dropped in five of six
subsequent months. Nonetheless, gains in business investment and
exports are preventing a sharper setback.  Orders for capital equipment like computers and
communications gear climbed in August by the most in three
months, a Commerce Department report last week showed.  “We are not convinced a pullback in corporate spending is
going to occur,” said Sylvester of  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based
Steelcase. “Many corporate balance sheets are as strong as they
have ever been.”  Fed on Economy  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed’s policy-setting committee said on Sept. 21. Economic growth
“remains slow” even as “business investment in equipment and
software continues to expand.”  At the same time, the housing market that triggered the
2008-2009 recession is in the doldrums. Construction spending in
August fell 0.2 percent after a 1.3 percent decline the prior
month, economists forecast the Commerce Department will report
at 10 a.m.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  