-- 
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Credit Risk Soars to Highest Since 2008

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-03T21:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-company-credit-risk-gauge-rises-to-highest-since-may-2009.html
The cost to protect the debt of
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  surged to the
highest levels since the weeks after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy as concern intensified that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will infect the global banking system.  Contracts on Morgan Stanley, the New York-based owner of
the world’s largest retail brokerage, soared 92 basis points to
a mid-price of 583 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, the
highest since October 2008, according to London-based data
provider CMA. Those on Goldman Sachs increased 65 basis points
to a mid-price of 395.  Traders pushed the cost of protecting banks and U.S.
companies higher after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opposed moves to increase the scale of the euro rescue
fund, complicating efforts to prevent a Greek default. Swaps on
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  jumped to a record and a measure of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose to the most since May 2009.  “It’s such a difficult situation for the markets here,”
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“People are primed for bad news. They’re quick to believe the
worst.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed to the highest since May 2009, adding
6.7 basis points to a mid-price of 150.9 basis points as of 5:10
p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has increased from 136.2
on Sept. 27 as concerns mount that Europe’s fiscal imbalances
are worsening.  Mitsubishi Commitment  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America’s senior debt climbed 33 basis
points 457, according to CMA, a unit of CME Group Inc. that
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Contracts on  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  surged 76 to
545, the highest since May 2010, CMA prices show.  The cost to protect Morgan Stanley’s debt has risen from
305 basis points on Sept. 15 and is at the highest level since
October 13 2008, four weeks after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filed for bankruptcy. It reached as high as the equivalent of
1,300 basis points on Oct. 10 of that year, CMA prices show. It
now costs $583,000 annually for five years for every $10 million
of debt insured.  ‘Dirty Word’  “Investment banks are largely black-box businesses, so in
a world where risk is a dirty word, they are going to be
punished in the capital markets,”  Joel Levington , a managing
director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. said today it’s
“firmly committed” to its long-term strategic alliance with
New York-based Morgan Stanley. The Tokyo-based bank said it was
reiterating its commitment to the firm “in response to recent
market volatility.”  “The special relationship we have formed remains core to
our global business strategy,” Mitsubishi UFJ said in the
statement.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  