-- 
Cantaloupe Outbreak Needs U.S. House Hearing, Democrats Say

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-03T19:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-house-democrats-seek-hearing-on-listeria-outbreak.html
The U.S.  House Energy and Commerce
Committee  should hold a hearing on the outbreak of listeria in
cantaloupe that has killed at least 15 people, two senior
Democrats on the panel said.  The committee also should request documents dating to
January 2010 from Jensen Farms, the closely held company that
produced the tainted cantaloupes in Granada, Colorado,
Democratic Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and Diana DeGette of Colorado said today in a  letter  to Republican
committee leaders.  The listeria outbreak, the first ever tied to cantaloupe,
is the deadliest foodborne illness epidemic in more than a
decade. The  outbreak  began about two months ago and had sickened
at least 84 people in 19 states as of Sept. 29, killing 15,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. Jensen Farms recalled the melons on Sept. 14, and Food
and Drug Administration officials said Sept. 28 they were
working with  Colorado  officials to learn how the contamination
occurred.  “An investigation and hearing would allow us to learn
about the causes of this outbreak and understand actions that
could be taken” by industry and the FDA “to prevent similar
outbreaks in the future,” Waxman, the Energy and Commerce
Committee’s top Democrat, and DeGette, senior Democrat on the
Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, said in the letter.  Inspection Records  The committee should ask Jensen Farms to submit records
from all inspections of its facilities by federal, state or
local officials, Waxman and DeGette said. The company also
should submit all documents relating to allegations of product
contamination and the names of all customers to whom it provided
cantaloupe in the past year, the lawmakers said.  Waxman and DeGette sent the letter to Republican
Representatives  Fred Upton  of  Michigan  and  Cliff Stearns  of
 Florida . Upton is chairman of the Energy and Commerce panel and
Stearns heads the oversight subcommittee.  Listeria, a bacterium often found in soil and water,
sickens about 1,600 people and kills about 260 in the U.S. each
year, according to the CDC website.  Animals  can carry the germ
without appearing ill. Pregnant women, the elderly and those
with weakened immune systems are at greatest risk from listeria
infections. Symptoms include fever and diarrhea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  