-- 
U.S. September ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-10-03T14:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-september-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  September Manufacturing ISM Report On Business;  PMI at 51.6%;  Production, Employment and Inventories Growing;  Supplier Deliveries Slower;  New Orders Contracting  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various regional
purchasing reports released across the country. The national
report’s information reflects the entire  United States , while
the regional reports contain primarily regional data from their
local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional reports
is not used in calculating the results of the national report.
The information compiled in this report is for the month of
September 2011.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
September for the 26th consecutive month, and the overall
economy grew for the 28th consecutive month, say the nation’s
supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 51.6 percent, an
increase of 1 percentage point from August, indicating expansion
in the manufacturing sector for the 26th consecutive month, at a
slightly higher rate. The Production Index registered 51.2
percent, indicating a return to growth after contracting in
August for the first time since May of 2009. The New Orders
Index remained unchanged from August at 49.6 percent, indicating
contraction for the third consecutive month. The Backlog of
Orders Index decreased 4.5 percentage points to 41.5 percent,
contracting for the fourth consecutive month and reaching its
lowest level since April 2009, when it registered 40.5 percent.
Comments from respondents generally reflect concern over the
sluggish economy, political and policy uncertainty in  Washington ,
and forecasts of ongoing high unemployment that will continue to
put pressure on demand for manufactured products.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 12 are reporting growth
in September, in the following order: Wood Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Machinery; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation
Equipment; Plastics & Rubber Products; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Chemical Products; and Computer & Electronic
Products. The six industries reporting contraction in September
-- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Textile Mills;
Furniture & Related Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper
Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “The economy continues to be a drag on our business outlook.
We are trying to deal with new and additional FDA regulations
which are costing significant dollars. It is hard to recoup any
of these additional costs in our pricing levels without losing
significant sales volumes.” (Chemical Products) “Market is
cautious, but still steady.” (Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components) “Global demand for semiconductors is down and maybe
not yet ‘bottomed out.’ Inventory reduction activities are a
priority.” (Computer & Electronic Products) “Still strong
automotive demand.” (Fabricated Metal Products) “Orders remain
consistent and steady -- no sign of lower demand.” (Paper
Products) “Japan supply chain issues are over, but exchange
rates and raw material prices are hurting our profit.”
(Transportation Equipment) “We sense a weakening in demand, but
it is not extreme at this point.” (Plastics & Rubber Products)
“Overall, business is improving with a measurable uptick in
orders this month. Part of that is due to pre-holiday season
orders.” (Miscellaneous Manufacturing) “Business continues to be
sluggish.” (Furniture & Related Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price  Aluminum Products(b) (2); Copper Based Products (11); Corn
(2); Electric/Electronic Components (3); Gasoline; Plastic
Resins(b); Stainless Steel (2); Steel(b) (13); and Titanium
Dioxide.  Commodities Down in Price  Aluminum; Aluminum Products(b); Copper (2); Corrugated
Containers;  Natural Gas  (2); Plastic Products (2); Plastic
Resins(b) (2); Rubber; and Steel(b) (5).  Commodities in Short Supply  Castings; and Electric/Electronic Components (9).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  (b) Reported as both up and down in price.  SEPTEMBER 2011 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI  Manufacturing continued its growth in September as the PMI
registered 51.6 percent, an increase of 1 percentage point when
compared to August’s reading of 50.6 percent. A reading above 50
percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 28th consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 26th consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January through
September (56.2 percent) corresponds to a 4.8 percent increase
in real gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI
for September (51.6 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a
3.2 percent increase in real GDP annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 49.6 percent in September,
which represents the same rate as in August. This is the third
consecutive month of contraction in the New Orders Index,
following 24 months of growth. A New Orders Index above 52.1
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in constant
2000 dollars).  The seven industries reporting growth in new orders in
September -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Printing & Related Support Activities;
Chemical Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Fabricated Metal Products. The nine
industries reporting decreases in new orders in September --
listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Textile Mills; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Paper Products; Transportation
Equipment; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; and Plastics & Rubber
Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 51.2 percent in September,
which is an increase of 2.6 percentage points when compared to
the August reading of 48.6 percent, and a return to growth
following one month of contraction. An index above 51 percent,
over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the
Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial Production figures.  The nine industries reporting growth in production during
the month of September -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Paper Products; Fabricated
Metal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Transportation Equipment; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components. The five industries reporting a decrease in
production in September are: Primary Metals; Textile Mills;
Machinery; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Computer &
Electronic Products.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 53.8 percent in September,
which is 2 percentage points higher than the 51.8 percent
reported in August. An Employment Index above 50.1 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of
Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported growth in
employment in September in the following order: Wood Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Transportation Equipment; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; Paper Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Machinery. The six industries reporting a
decrease in employment in September -- listed in order -- are:
Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; Textile Mills;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Printing & Related Support Activities.  Supplier Deliveries   The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was slower in September as the Supplier Deliveries
Index registered 51.4 percent, which is 0.8 percentage point
higher than the 50.6 percent registered in August. This is the
28th consecutive month the Supplier Deliveries Index has been
above 50 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower supplier deliveries
in September -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Textile Mills; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Machinery; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Computer &
Electronic Products; and Transportation Equipment. The four
industries reporting faster deliveries in September are: Primary
Metals; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products; and Plastics
& Rubber Products. Seven industries reported no change in
supplier deliveries in September compared to August.  Inventories  The Inventories Index registered 52 percent in September,
0.3 percentage point lower than the 52.3 percent reported in
August. An Inventories Index greater than 42.7 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of
Economic Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing
inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).  The eight industries reporting higher inventories in
September -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Machinery; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Transportation Equipment. The
seven industries reporting decreases in inventories in September
-- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Chemical Products; Paper Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; and Primary Metals.  Customers’ Inventories(c)  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 49 percent
in September, 2.5 percentage points higher than in August when
the index registered 46.5 percent. This is the 30th consecutive
month the Customers’ Inventories Index has been below 50 percent,
indicating that respondents believe their customers’ inventories
are too low at this time.  The six manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during September -- listed in
order -- are: Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Machinery. The seven
industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low during
September -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Furniture &
Related Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Printing & Related Support
Activities; Transportation Equipment; and Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components.  Prices(c)  The ISM Prices Index registered 56 percent in September,
0.5 percentage point higher than the 55.5 percent reported in
August. This is the fifth consecutive month the Prices Index has
registered below 80 percent since December 2010, and is the 27th
consecutive month the index has registered above 50 percent.
While 26 percent of respondents reported paying higher prices
and 14 percent reported paying lower prices, 60 percent of
supply executives reported paying the same prices as in August.
A Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 report paying
increased prices during the month of September, in the following
order: Furniture & Related Products; Textile Mills; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary
Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Machinery; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Paper
Products; Chemical Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; and Transportation Equipment. The only manufacturing
industry reporting paying lower prices on average in September
is Fabricated Metal Products.  Backlog of Orders(c)  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 41.5 percent in
September, which is 4.5 percentage points lower than the 46
percent reported in August. Of the 86 percent of respondents who
reported their backlog of orders, 15 percent reported greater
backlogs, 32 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 53 percent
reported no change from August.  The three industries reporting increased order backlogs in
September are: Wood Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and
Fabricated Metal Products. The 10 industries reporting decreases
in order backlogs during September -- listed in order -- are:
Primary Metals; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; Furniture & Related Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Machinery; Chemical Products; Paper Products; and
Transportation Equipment.  New Export Orders(c)  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 53.5 percent in
September, which is 3 percentage points higher than the 50.5
percent reported in August. This is the 27th consecutive month
of growth in the New Export Orders Index.  The seven industries reporting growth in new export orders
in September -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Transportation Equipment; Computer &
Electronic Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Chemical
Products. The four industries reporting a decrease in new export
orders during September are: Primary Metals; Machinery; Paper
Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. Six
industries reported no change in exports in September compared
to August.  Imports(c)  Imports of materials by manufacturers continued to expand
in September as the Imports Index registered 54.5 percent, 1
percentage point lower than the 55.5 percent reported in August.
This is the 25th consecutive month of growth in imports.  The eight industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of September -- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Chemical Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; and
Machinery. The six industries reporting a decrease in imports
during September -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Paper Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Computer &
Electronic Products; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  (c) The Backlog of Orders, Prices, Customers’ Inventories,
Imports and New Export Orders Indexes do not meet the accepted
criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment leadtime for  Capital Expenditures 
increased 3 days to 117 days. Average leadtime for Production
Materials increased 5 days to 57 days. Average lead time for
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies remained
unchanged at 26 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’
Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report shows the
percentage reporting each response, the net difference between
the number of responses in the positive economic direction
(higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries) and the
negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment, Supplier Deliveries and Inventories) is then
seasonally adjusted to allow for the effects of repetitive
intra-year variations resulting primarily from normal
differences in weather conditions, various institutional
arrangements, and differences attributable to non-moveable
holidays. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the
U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The PMI
is a composite index based on the seasonally adjusted diffusion
indexes for five of the indicators with equal weights: New
Orders, Production, Employment, Supplier Deliveries and
Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.5 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.5
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the first business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management . The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
October 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Tuesday,
November 1, 2011.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  