-- 
U.S. Crude Oil Supplies Rose Last Week on Imports, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-10-03T21:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-crude-oil-supplies-rose-last-week-on-imports-survey-shows.html
U.S. crude-oil inventories probably
rose for a second week as imports extended the biggest one-week
surge in three years, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories gained 1.9 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, to
342.9 million in the seven days ended Sept. 30, according to the
median of 10 analyst estimates before a weekly Energy Department
report tomorrow. Eight of the respondents projected a stockpile
increase and two forecast a drop.  Crude oil imports climbed 16 percent in the week ended
Sept. 23 to 9.7 million barrels a day as shipments recovered
following the shut-ins of rigs and platforms caused by Tropical
Storms Lee and Nate. It was the biggest one-week gain since
Sept. 26, 2008.  “We should see imports strong again because of arbitrage,
because there’s plenty of crude on the global market and because
of increased OPEC production,” said  Jim Ritterbusch , president
of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based consulting
company, in an interview. “There’s also an expected drop in
refinery runs.”  The oil survey responses ranged from a 4 million-barrel
increase to a 2.75 million-barrel decline. Supplies increased by
1.92 million barrels to 341 million barrels in the week ended
Sept. 23, the first advance following three weeks of declines.  Refineries operated at 87.3 percent of capacity last week,
down 0.5 percentage point, according to the median of nine
survey responses. Refiners perform maintenance in the autumn and
spring, between the peak demand periods for gasoline in the
summer and heating oil in the winter.  Refinery Rates  “It’s a seasonal thing,” said Jacob Correll, a commodity
analyst at Summit Energy Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in
an interview. “Typically at this time of year we get refinery
utilization rates dropping off and see crude building.”  Gasoline inventories rose 1.23 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, to 216.1 million in the week ended Sept. 30, according
to the responses. Eight of the analysts estimated a gain, and
two said there was a decline.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, decreased 400,000 barrels last week to
157.3 million, the survey showed. Seven of the respondents
predicted a drop, and three said inventories increased.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. Oct. 5 in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 