-- 
U.S. 10-Year Notes ‘Cheap,’ FTN’s Vogel Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-10-03T18:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/u-s-10-year-notes-cheap-as-fed-holds-rates-ftn-s-vogel-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s promise to keep
borrowing costs near zero through 2013 suggests Treasury 10-year
notes remain a good value even as yields are almost at historic
lows, according to FTN Financial.  The Fed’s commitment indicates that while the economy is
poised to remain weak for a significant period, the Fed is also
unlikely to raise  interest rates  quickly once signs of
improvement start to appear, said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt
research at FTN in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , today in a telephone
interview.  “Once things are better, how fast is the Fed going to want
to move to dampen the enthusiasm for a stronger economy,” Vogel
said. “The 10-year is a little cheap as it hangs around 1.9
percent.”  Treasury yields have plunged since July 28 when the 10-year
note closed at 2.95 percent after a Commerce Department report
showed that the economy almost stalled in the first six months
of 2011, prompting economists to lower their forecasts. Yields
on Treasury notes maturing seven years and less fell to record
lows after the Fed on Aug. 9 said it would hold rates near zero
for at least two more years.  Yields on 10-year notes fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 1.79 percent at 2:02 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The Fed bought $2.5 billion of Treasuries maturing from
February 2036 through August 2041, according to a New York Fed
statement today.  The purchases are the first under a program announced Sept.
21 to acquire $400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30
years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less to keep borrowing costs down.  “The market is eventually going to start thinking about
roll-down possibilities,” which were formerly concentrated
around the five-year part maturity, Vogel said. “You’re going
to start thinking about the projected valuation of Treasuries
out into this longer horizon, knowing the Fed’s biases as it
tried to manage monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  