-- 
UBS Says It Borrows at Lower Rate Than Credit Suisse After Trading Losses

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-10-03T12:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/ubs-can-borrow-at-lower-rates-than-credit-suisse-even-after-trading-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
says it can borrow funds in the money markets at a lower rate
than  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , even after unauthorized trading
lost it $2.3 billion.  UBS reported it can borrow dollars from other lenders for
three months at 0.411 percentage point, according to today’s
submission for the  British Bankers Association ’s London
interbank offered rate fixings. Credit Suisse, which unlike its
rival refused state help in 2008, said it can fund at 0.425
percentage point.  Libor is calculated as a borrowing benchmark from levels
that banks say they can fund at, and there have been doubts
about the veracity of the numbers since the credit crunch in
2007. UBS lost Chief Executive Officer Oswald Gruebel and said
it may be unprofitable in the third quarter because of the
activities of a trader in  London .  “Libor always used to be a useful guide,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. “I’m not sure if that applies any more.”  UBS spokesman Dominik Von Arx and Credit Suisse spokesman
Adam Bradbery at Credit Suisse, both in London, declined to
comment.  “The BBA does not compile Libor, the data is sent in
confidence directly from contributor banks to an independent
calculation agent” which publishes the data, John Ewan, the
director of the London-based group, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Global Benchmark  Libor rates for 10 currencies over 15 maturities are
produced daily for the BBA, which asks contributors for the
level at which they can borrow “in reasonable size just prior
to 11 a.m.” London time on each business day, according to the
BBA’s website. The average of the submissions is used as a
benchmark for banks’ unsecured borrowings worldwide.  UBS reported it can borrow euros at 1.435 percentage
points, the lowest of the 16 contributing banks, according to
the BBA. Credit Suisse’s 1.6 percentage-point figure was the
highest. The composite three-month euro Libor was 1.498 percent,
compared with 0.378 percent for the dollar benchmark.  During the financial crisis in 2008, there were complaints
that panel participants may have submitted inaccurate
information for Libor and that their rates didn’t reflect
borrowing costs. That prompted  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the biggest broker of
transactions between lenders, to bring in the New York Funding
Rate as an alternative.  UBS plunged in Zurich trading today, falling 3 percent to
10.22 Swiss francs ($11) as of 2 p.m. local time, while Credit
Suisse dropped 3.6 percent to 23.13 francs.  UBS is rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, a step below
Credit Suisse’s Aa2 grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates UBS at A+ and
Credit Suisse one level lower at A. Both rating companies are
reviewing UBS for possible downgrades after the trading loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  