-- 
Lundin, Det Norske Are Tipped as Takeover Candidates by Platou Markets

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-10-03T08:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/lundin-det-norske-are-tipped-as-takeover-candidates-by-platou-markets.html
Lundin Petroluem AB and  Det Norske
Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  were cited as takeover targets by RS Platou
Markets AS following a recent oil discovery that ranks among
 Norway ’s five biggest offshore finds.  Lundin was raised to “Buy” from “Neutral” with a target
price of 145 kronor, while Det Norske’s share-price target was
increased to 70 kroner at Platou. Lundin gained 5.2 percent to
123.70 kronor in Stockholm trading after earlier rising to a
record 124.50 kronor. Det Norske fell 3 percent after jumping 22
percent on Sept. 30.  Last week, Lundin raised its estimate of recoverable
resources for production license 501 at the North Sea Avaldsnes
prospect to 800 million to 1.8 billion barrels of oil.  Lundin is a “very attractive takeover candidate for larger
companies eager to get a strong foothold on the prolific and
fiscally attractive Norwegian Continental Shelf,” Platou
analysts wrote in a note.  The results from  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s discovery well at Aldous
Major South were used to update the estimate. Aldous Major South
and Avaldsnes are part of Norway’s biggest discovery in more
than 20 years.  The combined oil structure is now estimated to hold 1.2
billion to 2.6 billion barrels of recoverable oil equivalent,
compared with a previous estimate of 500 million to 1.2 billion
barrels, Lundin said. Det Norske has a 20 percent interest in
the Aldous Major South find.  Det Norske is in “prime position in what appears to become
an NCS legacy oil field is too attractive to ignore for larger
players” according to Platou. “We regard a bid for the whole
company to be more likely than ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  