-- 
Hungary to Restructure $819 Million County Debt, Orban Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-03T15:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/hungary-to-start-cautious-county-debt-talks-orban-says.html
Hungary wants to restructure the debt
of counties while being mindful of the burden lenders face from
existing government measures, including a bank tax and exchange-
rate losses on mortgage loans, Premier  Viktor Orban  said.  The government wants to restructure the 180 billion forint
($819 million) of debt amassed by Hungary’s 19 counties, which
the government is assuming, Orban told reporters in Budapest
today.  “We’re starting talks with creditors and it’s our hope
that we can reach a reasonable agreement and we will
restructure” the debt “in all probability,” he said.  Hungarian lenders are reeling under a 120 billion-forint
annual bank tax and a government plan that forces them to
swallow exchange-rate losses on the early repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages at below-market rates. The mortgage plan may
hurt lending, growth and public financing, Standard and Poor’s
said on Sept. 13.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, dropped 6 percent
to 3,055 forint in Budapest. The bank’s share price declined 46
percent in the third quarter.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Bayerische Landesbank .  ‘Burden’  Parliament last month approved a law that allows the
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at 180 forint per Swiss
franc and 250 forint per euro. The forint traded at 244.06 per
Swiss franc and 296.38 per euro today.  The mortgage plan is a “very big burden” on lenders,
Orban said today.  “That’s why we have to be careful about what kind of new
burden we put on banks’ shoulders,” he said. “Lenders are
stretched to their limits.”  The mortgage plan sets “a worrying precedent” and is
“credit negative” for Hungarian covered bonds, Moody’s
Investors Service said on Sept. 27. A day later,  Fitch Ratings 
said the plan is a “dangerous precedent” and may hurt lending.  Moody’s and S&P will send teams to Hungary this month to
review the country’s credit grade, which is at the lowest
investment level with negative outlooks at both companies, Debt
Management Agency Chief Executive Officer Gyula Pleschinger said
on Sept. 30.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  