-- 
Transit Union Says Police Can’t Use Bus Drivers at Wall Street Protests

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/union-requests-police-halt-to-using-buses-to-carry-wall-street-protesters.html
Police should be barred from forcing
 New York  transit workers to abandon their routes and transport
anti-Wall Street demonstrators arrested for disorderly conduct,
an employees’ union told a federal judge.  The Transport Workers Union Local 100, which said last week
that it’s supporting the protests, asked U.S. District Judge
Paul Engelmayer to prohibit the  New York City Police Department 
and the New York City Transit Authority from requiring drivers
to transport such protesters.  A court hearing is set for today on the request, said Jim Gannon, a spokesman for the union, which represents 38,000
members, including about 9,000 city bus drivers. Drivers were
ordered on Oct. 1 to convey some of the 700 demonstrators
arrested over the weekend during anti- Wall Street  protests in
lower Manhattan.  “The actions of the NYPD on Oct. 1, 2011, amounted to a
seizure of the bus drivers,” Arthur Schwartz, a lawyer for the
union, said in court papers. The police department “deprived
the drivers of their liberty without due process of law,” he
said.  More Arrests  Five protesters were arrested yesterday, accused of wearing
masks near Liberty Plaza in violation of a city law, said  Paul Browne , an NYPD spokesman. Some protesters have gathered at the
park, located a few blocks from the  Federal Reserve  and Wall
Street.  Police commandeered about five buses after the Oct. 1
demonstration on the Brooklyn Bridge and ordered the drivers to
transport protesters who were arrested, including one bus whose
passengers were told to leave, Local 100 President John Samuelsen said.  The drivers -- some of whom were ordered by their
supervisors to comply with the police -- didn’t resist,
Samuelsen said.  “There’s NYPD brass with guns on buses saying ‘Move the
bus, this bus is now under the control of the NYPD,’” he said.
“What room to protest is there? It’s not a transit supervisor
you’re dealing with.”  The anti-Wall Street protests were thrust into the national
spotlight this weekend when police arrested the protesters for
disorderly conduct on the Brooklyn Bridge.  Demonstrators, originally walking on the span’s pedestrian
footpath, converged on the roadway and were arrested on Oct. 1.  NYPD Cooperation  Only nine of those arrested by the NYPD weren’t released
from holding facilities in Brooklyn and Manhattan, the union
said in its lawsuit. Most of those arrested were given summonses
and released.  “We have no intention of changing our longstanding policy
of cooperating with the NYPD,” Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for
the state  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which operates
the city’s buses and subways, said in an e-mail.  The union said yesterday in its lawsuit that more
demonstrations are planned and transit workers and their buses
will again be used improperly by authorities.  “The Occupy Wall Street demonstrations are continuing,”
the union said in its lawsuit. “There is a great likelihood
that on Oct. 5, or at future marches, the NYPD will engage in
additional mass arrests, and that they will act as they did on
Oct. 1, 2011, and commandeer buses and bus drivers.”  Union members who went to court this afternoon with their
lawyer said they were told he was meeting with Engelmayer.  Elizabeth Thomas, a spokeswoman for the New York City Law
Department, said in an e-mail that the city will respond to the
union’s request for a temporary restraining order. “We believe
that the NYPD’s actions were proper,” she said.  ‘No Imminent Danger’  Schwartz, the plaintiff’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return
a voicemail message to his mobile phone or respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment or update on the matter.  Samuelsen said authorities can only force people to assist
police when there is “imminent danger.” Local 100 members
participate in “legitimate” police and fire department
emergencies as needed, he said.  “There was no imminent danger here,” Samuelsen said.
“The protesters this weekend appeared to be marching peacefully,
as is their right.”  The case is Samuelsen v. Kelly, 11-cv-06947, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  