-- 
UnitedHealth Uses Cheap Hearing Aids to Boost Medicare Sales

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-10-03T20:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/unitedhealth-looks-to-boost-medicare-sales-selling-hearing-aids.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. health insurer by revenue, said it will sell a line of low-
cost hearing aids to at least 36 million Americans with hearing
loss in the first such program offered by an insurer.  The devices will be available to UnitedHealth customers
through Medicare managed care and prescription drug plans for no
out-of-pocket cost to some consumers and a co-pay of up to $649
for others depending on their plan, the company said in a
statement. Hearing aids typically sell for from $2,000 to
$4,000, according to the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer.  The insurer provides Medicare benefits to almost 7 million
consumers, making it the biggest provider under the U.S. health
plan for the elderly and disabled. UnitedHealth shares fell as
the overall market declined.  IntriCon Corp. (IIN) , the hearing aid
manufacturer that will supply the devices, soared 37 percent.  “Even before health reform, we heard across the board from
customers that this was a benefit they wanted,” said Lisa
Tseng, chief executive officer of Hi HealthInnovations, a newly
formed UnitedHealth unit handling the sales and marketing of the
hearing devices.  UnitedHealth is introducing the hearing aid program as
Medicare recipients choose plans for 2012 coverage in a selling
season expected to be competitive after the first of the baby-
boom generation turned 65. The philosophy behind the decision
resembles the company’s recently introduced diabetes testing and
prevention effort, Tseng said.  Diabetes Program  That program seeks to help diabetics control their disease
and those who are likely to develop the chronic condition stave
it off through counseling, exercise and diet. UnitedHealth
provides the effort in partnership with employers and YMCAs.  UnitedHealth spokesman Tyler Mason declined to comment on
how much the new business may add in revenue or earnings or how
it may influence the selection of managed care plans for 2012.
“We didn’t project out the numbers,” Mason said in a telephone
interview. “We’re addressing a pressing need for a sizable
population in the U.S. and we envision a value-add to our
current line of business.”  UnitedHealth’s stock fell $3.20, or 6.9 percent, to $42.92
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading as the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 2.4 percent. The insurer’s
shares have gained 19 percent this year. IntriCon rose $1.07, or
35 percent, to $4.14 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  IntriCon Products  IntriCon, an Arden Hills, Minnesota-based make of
diagnostic equipment, also manufactures a wireless glucose
sensor for Medtronic Inc. The company has a limited number of
shareholders with 5.5 million shares outstanding, said Scott Longval, the chief financial officer. The biggest shareholder is
Mark Gorder, the chief executive officer who holds 10 percent,
Longval said.  Hearing loss is the third-most common chronic condition
among older Americans, data from the National Center for Health
Statistics show. The number affected is projected to increase 42
percent to 51 million by 2030 because the  U.S. population  is
aging and environmental noise is increasing, according to a
 study  from the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of
Medicine and  Public Health .  UnitedHealth, with 4.8 million in its Part D Medicare drug
plans in 2011 according to Bloomberg data, may lose a few
hundred thousand poorer Medicare beneficiaries because its plans
are more expensive than rivals’ programs for 2012, Dave Shove,
an analyst at Bank of Montreal in New York, said in a telephone
interview. The company will charge a monthly average of $39.70
in 2012, up from $34.82 this year, UnitedHealth said.  Retail Sales  HI HealthInnovations also plans to offer the hearing aids
for retail sale. The cost would be from $749 to $949, said
Tseng, who is a physician. The UnitedHealth subsidiary will use
the media and direct mail to advertise the products and is
looking at marketing and distribution deals through large retail
chains that sell drugs, such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in
Bentonville,  Arkansas , or  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  in Deerfield,  Illinois .  “We are only in discussions so far,” Tseng said in a
telephone interview. The company will also make its computer
test available to doctors at no charge, she said.  Hi HealthInnovations will offer four models of digital
devices that are custom programmed to an individual’s hearing
needs, Tseng said.  Seventy-five percent of the people who need hearing aids
don’t have them in the U.S. largely because of cost, Tseng said.
Yet, the loss of hearing directly affects quality of life, often
socially isolating those who can’t hear and leading to other
health problems such as depression and dementia, she said.  “UnitedHealth sees this as a way of meeting a need and
cutting health-care costs,” Tseng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  