-- 
Turkish September Inflation Slows to 6.2%; Core Rate Hits 2 1/2-Year High

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-03T08:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/turkish-inflation-rate-declined-to-6-15-percent-in-september.html
Turkish inflation slowed in
September, a decline the central bank says will probably reverse
later this year as the lira’s drop pushes import costs higher.  The inflation rate fell to 6.2 percent from 6.7 percent in
August, the statistics office in Ankara said on its website
today. The median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 6 percent. In the month, prices rose 0.8 percent.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci says inflation probably
will accelerate in the fourth quarter. While a year-earlier jump
in food prices capped the headline rate in September, the bank’s
preferred measure of  core inflation  jumped to a 2 1/2-year high.
The lira fell 22 percent against the dollar in the 12 months
through September, driving up import prices.  “The data highlight the adverse impact which the weaker
lira is having on the inflation outlook,”  Tatha Ghose , senior
emerging-market economist at Commerzbank AG in  London , said in
e-mailed comments. “Given the adverse growth environment,
however, we think that the bank would still cut rates once
extreme risk effects on emerging market currencies recede.”  Lira-denominated bonds gained after the figures were
announced. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell to 8.39
percent at 10:30 a.m., after rising to as much as 8.48 percent
earlier today.  Further Easing  The central bank cut its benchmark repo rate to 5.75
percent on Aug. 4, arguing the reduction was needed to shield
the economy against possible recession in  Europe ,  Turkey ’s main
trade partner. Further easing may be needed if European debt
problems threaten Turkish growth, Basci said Sept. 29.  The bank argues that its overall monetary policy is
disinflationary because controls on the supply of money and
curbs on bank lending outweigh the lower  interest rate .  Grocery prices rose 1 percent in the month, compared to an
increase of 4.7 percent in September 2010. Clothing prices fell
3.2 percent last month.  Annual core inflation excluding energy, food, tobacco and
gold prices accelerated to 7 percent in September from 6.2
percent a month earlier, exceeding the rate of headline
inflation for the second time this year.  The energy regulator raised household electricity prices 10
percent starting this month. State gas importer Botas said
residential  gas prices  will rise as much as 14 percent.  Consumer-price growth may accelerate to 8.5 percent by the
end of this year, compared with an official target of 5.5
percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 22.
There’s “a high chance” that the bank will meet its 2012 goal
of 5 percent, Basci said on Sept. 30.  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
an annual 12.2 percent in September, compared with a rise of 11
percent the previous month, the statistics agency said today.
Producer prices rose 1.6 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 