-- 
Twitter Can Start a Party but Can’t Keep It Going: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-03T00:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/twitter-can-start-a-party-but-can-t-keep-it-going-noah-feldman.html
Social media is the new forum for
free speech -- and its suppression. Whether coordinating large
protests in Cairo and Tunis or flash mobs in Birmingham and
 London , social media have proved in recent months that they are
capable of disturbing business as usual.  Governments, in response, are selectively shutting down
sites such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to block unwanted
activity. The lonely pamphleteer -- the subject of classic First
Amendment protection -- has become the many-friended user.  The latest deployments of this fast-changing technology
form a pattern. There are certain things that, so far, social
media seem to do very well. One is coordination. Coordinating
large numbers of people to do exactly the same thing at the same
time is notoriously difficult. So long as the activity is
relatively simple -- say, show up and protest the government --
the new social media drastically reduce the costs of
coordination.  In a sense, this coordination is the political analogue to
holding a big party. All people need to know is when and where
the party is. When they show up, the party will by definition be
in full swing. If they come, the party is a success. If they
don’t, the party fails. Of course, the protesters in  Egypt  and
Tunisia were not partying. They were risking arrest and torture
and even death. But the role of social media was nevertheless to
coordinate multiple get-togethers in multiple places -- just as
one would for a party.  Enormous Crowds  Big parties scare governments. Although the enormous crowds
in Cairo and Tunis were not enough on their own to bring down
dictators, they did signal that the public was fed up with the
regime. The rulers realized that if they could not make the
public go home, their legitimacy would be utterly undercut.
Unable to suppress demonstrations using secret police, each
looked to the military. That was the cue for senior officers in
both Egypt and Tunisia to side with the public rather than the
aging autocrat. That spelled the end for  Hosni Mubarak  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Without the coordination of social media, the protests
would still have been possible. Huge crowds have gathered in
places from the Washington Mall to Tiananmen Square long before
the Internet, much less Twitter. But the demonstrations would
have been much harder to organize.  Moreover, social media also carry rapid doses of instant
information about protests (admittedly, of dubious reliability),
sometimes across long distances. Although spreading news about
government depredation is no guarantee of successful revolution
-- consider the Iranian Green movement of two years ago -- it
can certainly help to shift public attitudes away from a regime
that is in the process of cracking down.  It is worth noting, too, that not only autocracies fear
fast-forming crowds. The flash mobs of the British riots this
summer were just as illegitimate from the standpoint of the U.K.
government as the North African protests were to the governments
of Egypt and  Tunisia . The mobs wanted violence and looting,
whereas the peaceful protesters wanted democratic change. But
they were equally illegal under the norms of the country where
they occurred.  During an attempt to protest a shooting in a San Francisco
subway station, the city government  turned off  mobile phone
service in the subway. Although hardly a human-rights violation
(except maybe at rush hour), the action brought criticism from
civil libertarians concerned about free speech. It was a
reminder that every government that seeks to maintain its
legitimacy must deliver order. Without order, indeed, law seems
irrelevant.  Falling Behind  But if social media are good at coordinating simple events,
so far they have failed at building political parties on a
grander scale. In Egypt and Tunisia, the tech savvy young people
who facilitated the protests have already begun to fall behind
in the race to political organization. Ahead of them are Islamic
democrats, political groups that have years of experience in
attracting, organizing and mobilizing followers.  Why should Facebook and Twitter be good for social parties
but not political parties? It’s too soon to know definitively;
and of course it is possible that, as technology changes and
user culture evolves, more complex political organizations may
come out of social media.  For now, however, the answer seems to lie in the kinds of
contacts needed to create extended political cohesion. To show
up at a gathering, I don’t need to have any close or repeated
bonds with the other people. All of us can show up, enjoy
ourselves and go our separate ways. This is true even if we are
meeting to do something risky and politically motivated. The key
is that our objective is simple rather than complex.  Political organization, by contrast, is very complicated
indeed -- more complicated even than ordinary friendship. A
successful political organization must generate beliefs about
the way the world works and how it should be. It must reflect a
shared ethos or morality -- even if the shared worldview is
tolerance of other beliefs. Above all, it must produce some
sense of community and commonality -- at least if it intends to
keep people loyal.  To generate the shared beliefs and feelings that in turn
shape action demands repeated human contact. Charisma is hard to
convey on the small screen, and so is institutional support and
a sense of concerted values. Someday perhaps it may be possible
to capture the full range of human emotions in virtual space.
But it will never be possible to capture every dimension of
human experience there. Right now, human contact still prevails
over the virtual kind when it comes to forming collective
political communities.  Of course social media can be useful to political
organizations that already exist. The Islamists are very
interested in using social media to make their political
organizations more effective -- though so far, their attempts to
produce their own protests using the new coordination techniques
have mostly failed. But getting the committed out on the streets
is a job that follows forming bonds of belief and loyalty, not
one that precedes it. If the aspiring secular democrats of Egypt
and Tunisia want to govern after the regime changes they helped
bring about, they will have to come out from behind their mobile
phones and notebooks and hit the ground running.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 