-- 
MMX, Vale Fall as Morgan Stanley Cuts Recommendations

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-03T21:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/mmx-vale-fall-as-morgan-stanley-cuts-recommendations-1-.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA fell the
most in eight weeks after the iron-ore producer controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  was cut to “equal-weight”
from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  Vale SA (VALE3)  also fell after
an identical cut by the bank.  Shares of Rio de Janeiro-based MMX dropped 7.7 percent to
6.51 reais at the 4:15 p.m. New York time close. That was the
most since Aug. 8 and the largest decline on Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index, which dropped 2.9 percent.  The possibility of a global recession will continue to damp
prices for equities and commodities, Morgan Stanley analysts
including Carlos de Alba wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday.  “We still expect MMX to deliver on its ambitious growth
plans, but we are moving to equal-weight as we think investors
will not buy into a growth story now,” the Morgan Stanley
analysts wrote. “We remain constructive on iron ore
fundamentals, and would expect to revisit our views on the
shares when macro conditions improve.”  The analysts also cut the recommendation of Vale, the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, to “equal-weight” from
“overweight,” saying the shares may remain depressed until the
macroeconomic environment improves. Rising mining royalties in
 Brazil  and pending tax issues will also continue overhanging
Vale, the analysts wrote.  “We are not positive on the mining sector,” said Carlos
Camacho, who helps manage the equivalent of about $2.1 billion
at GAP Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro and doesn’t hold
shares of Vale or MMX. “Iron-ore prices haven’t yet fallen as
significantly as copper and nickel did, so there is a chance
they fall a bit further. We’d rather stay outside of the
sector.”  Vale fell 2.5 percent to 38.25 reais, the lowest since Aug.
22. The shares have lost 21 percent during 2011, less than the
Bovespa’s 27 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  