-- 
Yahoo Strikes News Accord With ABC as Alibaba Weighs Offer for Web Portal

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-03T18:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/yahoo-strikes-partnership-with-abc-news-for-news-operations.html
Yahoo! Inc., the most-visited U.S.
Web portal, struck a partnership with ABC News as  China ’s
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. said it may be interested in
acquiring Yahoo.  ABC News, part of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , will become the leading
provider of news for Yahoo! News and editorial teams from both
organizations will collaborate on stories, the companies said in
a statement today. Yahoo and ABC News will also combine bureaus
in New York,  Washington  and Los Angeles, they said.  The partnership comes as Yahoo, struggling to compete with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc., may face a possible acquisition
bid from Alibaba. The Hangzhou, China-based company, in which
Yahoo holds a 40 percent stake, may be interested in Yahoo,
Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma said at a Stanford
University event near  Palo Alto ,  California , on Sept. 30.  “We are very interested in Yahoo,” said Ma. Talks have
snagged over “political issues,” rather than financial ones,
he said.  Yahoo is reviewing strategy and seeking a new CEO after
ousting  Carol Bartz , who failed to reverse a growth slowdown or
repel competition from Google and Facebook. The process for
reviewing strategic options is likely to take “months, not
weeks,” according to a memo to employees that was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Silver Lake Interest  As of mid-September, private-equity investor Silver Lake
was considering a bid for Yahoo, people involved in the
deliberations said at the time. As part of a deal, Silver Lake
would sell off Yahoo’s Asian assets and then attempt to turn
around the main operations or find a buyer for that business,
the people said. Representatives from Silver Lake have
approached other companies to gauge interest in purchasing
Yahoo’s main business, one person said.  Alibaba, also part-owned by  Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  and
Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte, is expanding in search-engine
services after dominating China’s e-commerce market. In 2009,
Its Hong Kong-listed  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  unit acquired two U.S.
companies to step up international expansion.  “We are very interested in Yahoo because our Alibaba Group
is so important to Yahoo, and Yahoo is also very important to
us,” Ma said, when asked if he would buy the company. “There
are so many people who are interested in that, and we are also
talking to them.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment.  Yahoo rose 28 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $13.45 at 2:30
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock had
dropped 21 percent this year before today.  ABC News Deal  “If the partnership works out and the cultures of the two
companies fit, Disney might be interested in buying Yahoo,”
said Laura Martin, an analyst at Needham & Co. in  Los Angeles .
“This could be the first step.”  Under the agreement announced today, ABC News will be used
throughout Yahoo News sites and on Yahoo’s front page, the
companies said. GoodMorningAmerica.com will launch on Yahoo
today with three online-first videos, they said. The companies
will continue to control the content on their respective Web
pages.  ABC now provides about 20 percent of the video streaming on
Yahoo’s site, said Ben Sherwood, president of ABC News. Yahoo
receives about 700 million monthly visitors. Combined, the two
companies said they will have a news audience of 100 million
people in the U.S. each month on personal computers, mobile
devices and tablets.  “This relationship will give ABC News an unrivaled ability
to reach across the Web, combining Yahoo’s vast distribution and
cutting-edge technology with our award-winning journalism,”
Sherwood said. “This is an audience the size of the Super
Bowl.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  