-- 
Yanzhou Coal Falls Most in More Than Two Years After Potash Acquisitions

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-10-03T09:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/yanzhou-coal-falls-most-in-more-than-two-years-after-potash-acquisitions.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. fell the most
in almost three years in  Hong Kong  trading after it obtained
government approvals to acquire Canadian potash exploration
permits for $260 million.  China ’s fourth-biggest coal producer dropped 14 percent to
close at HK$14.68, the steepest decline since Nov. 6, 2008. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 4.4 percent. The stock has
slumped 38 percent this year.  “Investors certainly do not like it,” said Lawrence Lau,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bank of China Ltd. “It’s entering
a field the company is not familiar with or has experience in.
Potash is not even remotely part of Yanzhou’s core business.”  Yanzhou is seeking assets in countries including Australia
and Canada after buying Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.1 billion
($3 billion) in 2009 to expand coal reserves. The Chinese and
Canadian governments have approved the acquisition of 11 potash
exploration permits from Devonian Potash Inc. and eight permits
from North Atlantic Potash Inc., Yanzhou said on Sept. 30.  “The company will be able to fully leverage its mining
expertise and to enhance commercial benefits,” the Shandong-
based coal producer said in a statement.  The permits cover a total area of about 1.3 million acres
(5,364 square kilometers) in  Canada ’s Saskatchewan province.
Initial data show the permits may hold “abundant” potash
resources, Yanzhou said. The company needs to conduct further
exploration to produce a formal reserves estimate, it said.  Volatile Prices  Potash, a potassium nutrient used to shield crops from
dryness and disease, has slumped by about 50 percent to $461.25
a metric ton as of July from a record in 2009, according to the
IMF Canada Potash Export Price Index. Prices earlier surged
five-fold to $872.50 a ton over the two years to February 2009.  “There has been huge volatility in potash prices in the
past years, and the area is not where Yanzhou’s strength is,”
Karen Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB International
Securities Ltd., said by telephone after the stock fell. “Many
investors just don’t want to be exposed to such risks.”  Yanzhou will join Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
largest mining company, in exploring for the fertilizer
ingredient in Saskatchewan. BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest
mining company, and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. also
operate in the province.  The Chinese coal producer, through its unit  Yancoal
Australia Ltd. , said on Sept. 28 it may spend more than $1
billion buying additional mines in  Australia  as the global
market turmoil makes assets cheaper.  Yanzhou also said last month that it agreed to acquire two
units of Wesfarmers Ltd. for A$297 million after purchasing
Syntech Resources Pty Ltd. for A$202.5 million in August.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the listed unit of the nation’s
biggest coal producer, fell 7.1 percent to HK$28.85. China Coal
Energy Co., the second-largest producer, dropped 0.9 percent to
HK$7.01.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 