-- 
Yemen Drone Strike Shows Careful Balance of U.S. Policy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-03T00:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/yemen-drone-strike-shows-careful-balance-of-u-s-policy-view.html
The killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, the
American-born radical Muslim cleric, by a drone strike in Yemen
was a minor U.S. victory that raises major questions about the
evolving fight against global terrorism.  These include: How important was al-Awlaki? Is the U.S.
justified in targeting its own citizens if they are deemed an
immediate threat to national security? Is cooperating with the
teetering government of Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh in
the U.S.’s long-term interests? And does the 2001 congressional
authorization to use force against those behind the Sept. 11
attacks extend to groups that had no role in them, such as
Yemen’s al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and al-Shabaab in
Somalia?  We’ll take those one at a time. Al-Awlaki was a dangerous
man with the dubious distinction of landing on the CIA’s “kill
or capture” list. His Internet orations stirred popular
resentment against the West and inspired isolated actors like
Faisal Shahzad, the would-be Times Square bomber. He is thought
to have played a role in an effort to blow up an airliner over
 Detroit  on Christmas 2009. And he exchanged e-mails with
Major Nidal Hasan, who is accused of killing 13 people at a
Texas Army base in 2009.  Although al-Awlaki’s significance in the terrorist pantheon
may have been overinflated -- his value as a propagandist
stemmed from his American citizenship and fluency in English,
not from any influence as a religious thinker -- the U.S. and
the world are somewhat safer places without him and the other
American killed in the attack: Samir Khan, the editor of al-
Qaeda’s English-language Internet magazine.  Was the U.S. justified in going after the cleric? There is
no question that killing an American risks undermining domestic
support for antiterrorism efforts. But we agree with the  Justice
Department  that such strikes are legal and justified to
safeguard national security. An enemy combatant is fair game, no
matter where he was born.  And Yemen’s president? Saleh, grasping at straws in an
effort to stay in power, will no doubt use the operation as an
argument for new support from the U.S. He should be ignored. As
an ally in the fight against extremism, Yemen has been slightly
more reliable than Pakistan, which is faint praise indeed. Any
successor government would be just as eager to see al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula shut down, and might be a more efficient
partner. Even a civil war wouldn’t much change the status quo --
the terrorists in Yemen have long enjoyed a free hand. The last
thing the U.S. needs to do is prop up another corrupt dictator.  Finally, debate over extending the war on terrorism beyond
Afghanistan and  Pakistan  had been heating up in recent weeks. It
was a well-known secret that, on one side, the Defense
Department’s top lawyer, Jeh C. Johnson, argued that the U.S.
has a legal right to strike at suspected terrorists in nations
unwilling or unable to suppress the threat. He had faced
opposition from the top legal adviser to the State Department,
Harold Hongju Koh, who reportedly argued that the U.S. could
strike only in self-defense -- that is, at people (al-Awlaki
included) known to be planning a direct attack on the U.S.
homeland.  The question was seemingly resolved in a  speech  given by
National Security Adviser  John Brennan  at  Harvard Law School  on
Sept. 16. Brennan insisted that the government had the
“authority to take action against al-Qaeda and its associated
forces without doing a separate self-defense analysis each
time,” but he said efforts would “focus on those individuals
who are a threat to the  United States , whose removal would cause
a significant -- even if only temporary -- disruption of the
plans and capabilities” of the terrorist groups.  This conclusion to claim broad legal authority for the use
of force combined with a restrictive policy for actually using
it seems to strike the right balance. The administration’s
remarkable transparency on counter-terrorism -- explaining in
detail the mission that killed Osama bin-Laden (and correcting
its initial miscommunications in that account); allowing Brennan
to lay out its policy thinking in public; and now divulging
specifics on the al-Awlaki strike -- should earn it increased
public trust.  The decision to mount a mission to kill a terrorist outside
the battlefield, whether a U.S. citizen or not, should always be
scrutinized as both policy and military strategy. But those who
insist such operations are unambiguously against the law have
little to stand on. And in this case, the Obama administration
has given us reason to trust its judgment.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 