-- 
Mylan Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court on $77 Million Award

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-03T14:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/mylan-rejected-by-u-s-supreme-court-on-77-million-award.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  rejected Mylan
Inc.’s appeal of a $77 million award to four health insurers
that accused the generic-drug maker of cornering the market on
ingredients for two anti-anxiety medicines.  In seeking to have the antitrust suit thrown out, Mylan
argued that the federal courts lacked authority to consider the
case. An appeals court in January refused to dismiss the suit,
instead telling a trial judge to consider trimming an award that
stems from a 2005 jury verdict against Mylan.  Mylan has faced antitrust allegations over its generic
lorazepam and clorazepate for more than a decade. The company in
2000 agreed to pay $135 million to resolve complaints by the
Federal Trade Commission, 32 states and a group of private drug
purchasers. The FTC said Mylan reached exclusive supply
agreements that in 1998 let the company raise the price of the
two drugs by more than 2,500 percent.  At the Supreme Court, the legal issue concerned the
mechanism used by the insurers to get the case into federal
court, rather than state court. Federal judges have power to
hear cases if all the participants hail from different states.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , said that
requirement wasn’t met because the insurers were also pressing
claims on behalf of their 1,400 “self-funded” customers --
mostly large corporations that use their own money to provide
health benefits directly to employees. Mylan said that some of
those self-funded customers were from the same state as at least
one of the defendants in the case.  A federal appeals court in  Washington  told a trial judge to
consider whether some or all of the self-funded customers could
be dismissed from the case.  In addition to Mylan, two other companies --  Cambrex Corp. (CBM) 
and Gyma Laboratories of America Inc. -- are defendants in the
case. Mylan said in a July regulatory filing that it may have to
pay “some or all” of the damages incurred by the other
companies. Cambrex said in an August filing that it expects
indemnification from Mylan for any damages.  The case is Mylan v. Blue Cross Blue Shield of
 Massachusetts , 10-1500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 