-- 
Zambia’s Sata Scraps FirstRand Deal, Fueling Currency’s Slide

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-10-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/zambia-s-sata-scraps-firstrand-deal-fueling-currency-s-slide.html
Zambian President Michael Sata
yesterday scrapped  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s purchase of a local lender
and fired the board of the central bank. The kwacha fell the
most against the dollar.  Sata, who defeated incumbent Rupiah Banda in a Sept. 20
election, dissolved the boards of three state agencies,
including power utility Zesco, according to a statement from his
office. The board of the Bank of Zambia was removed after
Governor Caleb Fundanga was fired on Sept. 29.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest copper producer dropped as
much as 3.8 percent to 5,014 against the dollar yesterday, the
biggest decline since December 2008 and the most of any currency
tracked by Bloomberg. Sata’s overhaul may heighten investors’
concerns at a time when copper prices have dropped 27 percent
since August, undermining the economy’s outlook.  “When people come into presidential positions they bring
their own people,” Yarik Turianskyi, a political researcher at
the South African Institute of International Affairs, said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg yesterday. “With more
moderate leaders, this is more of a moderate process.” Sata
“is sending the message that he is not dependent on external
powers. Obviously that is a worrying sign for investors.”  Kwacha Gains  The kwacha gained 20 percent between April 2009 to the end
of last year as the economy benefited from debt cancellation in
2006, rising copper prices and inflation easing below 10 percent
for the first time in three decades.  Sata, 73, has pledged to extract more money from mining
companies to distribute to citizens, create jobs and fight
corruption. Companies including  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , First
Quantum Minerals Ltd. and Glencore International Plc operate in
Zambia.  Sata didn’t give a reason for annulling FirstRand’s 27
billion kwacha ($5.5 million) takeover of Finance Bank Zambia
Ltd.. The central bank seized Finance Bank in December for
breaching financial laws and agreed to sell it to Johannesburg-
based FirstRand, which had been managing it for eight months.  “We strongly believe that due process was followed and
that the agreements reached with the Bank of Zambia were
concluded in accordance with Zambian law,” Michael Jordaan,
chief executive officer of FirstRand’s  First National Bank , said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  John Sangwa, a lawyer for Finance Bank’s former Chairman
Rajan Mahtani, said the central bank’s decision to dispose of
Finance Bank’s assets was “flawed” and Mahtani was “very
happy” with the decision.  Sata fired the country’s anti-corruption chief and three
senior aides two days ago. Last week he removed the directors of
the Energy Regulation Board and appointed an inquiry to
investigate reports of alleged corruption in the procurement of
oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  