-- 
Zambia’s Sata Reverses FirstRand’s Purchase, Fires Central Bank Board

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-03T16:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-03/zambia-reverses-firstrand-s-purchase-fires-central-bank-board.html
Zambian President  Michael Sata 
reversed  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s purchase of Finance Bank Zambia Ltd.
and fired the board of the central bank and three agencies. The
kwacha plunged the most against the dollar of all currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Sata, who defeated incumbent Rupiah Banda in a Sept. 20
election, dissolved the boards of the National Pensions Scheme
Authority, Zambia Revenue Agency and Zesco, the power utility,
Sata’s spokesman George Chellah said in an e-mailed statement
today. Bank of Zambia Governor Caleb Fundanga was removed from
his post on Sept. 29.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest copper producer dropped as
much as 3.8 percent to 5,014 against the dollar today, where it
was trading as of 6:39 p.m. in Lusaka. Sata’s overhaul may
heighten investors’ concerns at a time when copper prices have
dropped 27 percent since August, undermining the economy’s
outlook.  “To go and chance everything and scare investors away
won’t make sense,” Thea Fourie, an economist at IHS Global
Insight in Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. “There
has been a lot of uncertainty after this election.”  Sata didn’t give a reason for annulling FirstRand’s 27
billion kwacha ($5.5 million) takeover of Finance Bank Zambia
Ltd.. The central bank seized Finance Bank in December for
breaching financial laws and agreed to sell it to Johannesburg-
based FirstRand, which had been managing it for eight months.  ‘Due Process’  “We strongly believe that due process was followed and
that the agreements reached with the Bank of Zambia were
concluded in accordance with Zambian law,” Michael Jordaan,
chief executive officer of FirstRand’s  First National Bank , said
in an e-mailed statement today.  John Sangwa, a lawyer for Finance Bank’s former Chairman
Rajan Mahtani, said the central bank’s decision to dispose of
Finance Bank’s assets was “flawed” and Mahtani was “very
happy” with the decision.  Sata yesterday fired the country’s anti-corruption chief
and three senior aides. Last week he fired the directors of the
Energy Regulation Board and appointed an inquiry to investigate
reports of alleged corruption in the procurement of oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  