-- ‘Massive’ Blockade Needed to Stop Iran Threat, Israel’s Steinitz Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-01-25T21:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/-massive-blockade-needed-to-stop-iran-threat-steinitz-says.html
A “massive” aerial and naval
blockade of  Iran , reminiscent of the 1962 U.S. quarantine of
Cuba, is needed to stop the Islamic regime from pursuing nuclear
weapons, Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said.  The European Union’s ban on imports of Iranian crude and
other economic sanctions “might not be sufficient” to deter
Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Steinitz, 53, said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  The gravity of a potential nuclear-armed Iran is such that
stronger action is needed, he said. A “massive blockade,” so
that “no one can even go out,” stands some chance of success,
he said.  Iran has threatened retaliation, such as blocking the
Strait of Hormuz, transit point for about a fifth of the global
oil supply, if its oil shipping is obstructed. Under
international law, a blockade is an act of war unless authorized
by the UN Security Council.  Steinitz said the U.S. had “good experiences in the
past,” referring to the 1962 missile crisis when President  John
F. Kennedy  declared that any ships carrying missiles to Cuba
would be forced to turn back.  “It worked,” said Steinitz. “Sometimes it might work.
You have to at least try.”  Steinitz, a member of the conservative Likud Party, has
called repeatedly for tougher action to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons.  EU Oil Ban  The EU agreed on Jan. 23 to ban oil imports from Iran
starting July 1 as part of measures to ratchet up pressure on
the country to give up activities that  Israel , the U.S. and EU
say are directed at giving Iran nuclear weapons capability. Iran
said its nuclear program is peaceful, for electricity and
medical purposes.  Iran’s Oil Ministry has played down the effects of EU
sanctions on its economy, saying the move may lead to “heavy
economic loss and damages” for  Europe  and that it has “no
concerns” about finding new customers for its oil.  Steinitz said economic sanctions have taken their toll on
Iran and cracks have begun to appear among Iran’s rulers.  “We know there are some doubts and some kind of internal
debate already going on within the leadership on what to do and
how much they are paying because they insist on accelerating the
nuclear project,” he said. “They are already in severe
economic difficulties so they are not totally insensitive” to
pressure.  The EU measures include freezing the European assets of the
Iranian central bank and Bank Tejarat, the last Iranian bank
financing major trade with the EU, and banning trade in
petrochemicals from Iran.  Suspicious Activities  Tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program  have increased since
the Nov. 8 release of a International Atomic Energy Agency
report citing “credible” evidence showing Iran worked on bomb
components to lift the yield of a nuclear explosion.  Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, discussed Iran during talks in Israel last week
with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and other officials. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and
other U.S. officials have warned Israel not to strike Iran’s
nuclear facilities, which might trigger retaliatory attacks as
well as a naval confrontation in the Strait of Hormuz.  United Nations  Secretary General Ban Ki-moon today called
for a “peaceful resolution” to the dispute and for Iran to
keep open a critical shipping lane.  “The free passage of any ships in open seas should be
respected and protected,” Ban said. “At the same time, I have
been urging the parties to first of all try to defuse the
tension. These rhetorics are not helpful.”  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , has threatened
to close the  Strait of Hormuz , the seaway linking the  Persian
Gulf  with the  Indian Ocean , if nations block its crude oil
sales.  “We can keep the Strait of Hormuz open and we will do what
is necessary to achieve that,” Ivo Daalder, the U.S. ambassador
to NATO, told BBC Radio 4 on Jan. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  