-- ‘Social Equity’ to Be Weighed in U.S. Transit Funding Rule
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-01-25T17:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/-social-equity-to-be-weighed-in-transit-funding-under-u-s-rule.html
The U.S. Department of
Transportation wants to give more weight to factors including
affordable-housing policy in deciding which local mass-transit
initiatives will get federal money.  Its proposed  rules , published in the Federal Register
today, are part of a move over the past two years to alter the
criteria that President  George W. Bush ’s administration used to
award grants for light-rail, subway and rapid-bus systems.  “This proposed rulemaking is moving in the right
direction,” James LaRusch, chief counsel to the American Public
Transportation Association, said in an e-mail. The Washington-
based trade group represents transit agencies and companies that
design, build, finance and operate transit services.  The Federal Transit Administration will use the new
criteria to evaluate applications for grants from the agency’s
New Starts and Small Starts programs to local governments and
transit agencies. The programs get about $2 billion a year from
Congress.  The proposal will also move more projects “from the
drawing boards into construction sooner and with less red tape
along the way,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a
 statement  posted on the department’s website. It could reduce
the amount of time the transit agency needs to consider projects
by at least six months, according to the statement.  Effect on Pollution  Under the proposal, the agency would consider a project’s
effects on air pollution, energy use, greenhouse-gas emissions
and safety, and “social equity impacts” such as affordable
housing and  job creation .  Project elements that don’t improve transportation while
providing benefits such as “extra pedestrian access to
surrounding development or aesthetically-oriented design
features” wouldn’t be counted in project cost calculations,
according to the notice.  The transit agency would determine a project’s cost
effectiveness by how many trips it would generate and the cost
per trip, instead of by how much time travelers would save
compared with a hypothetical alternative, according to the
proposed rule.  The new criteria are “more speculative about the benefits
of transit projects,” David Horner, senior counsel to London-
based law firm Allen & Overy LLP, said by phone.  Forecasting Error  The Federal Transit Administration “is opening the door to
an evaluation that is more subjective than it has been in the
past and more prone to forecasting error,” said Horner, a
former chief counsel to the agency during the  Bush
administration .  The public will have 60 days to comment on the proposed
regulations before the transit agency writes final rules.  “By focusing on broad social benefits and broad
environmental benefits, this administration is fixing a misstep
of the previous administration in a way that’s going to be
helpful to transit riders, transit agencies and the
environment,” Deron Lovaas, transportation policy director for
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , a New York-based
environmental advocacy group, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  