-- Abbott Laboratories Slips as Fourth-Quarter Sales Come in Below Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-25T21:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/abbott-slips-as-fourth-quarter-sales-come-in-below-estimates.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the health-care
company that plans to spin off its drug business, fell the most
in two months after reporting fourth-quarter sales that came in
below analyst estimates.  Abbott dropped 1.3 percent to $55.23 at 4:02 p.m. New York.
Revenue was $10.4 billion, held down by declines for heart
stents and the HIV drug Kaletra, the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
company said today in a statement. Sales were less than the
$10.6 billion average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Miles White  said in October that he
would split Abbott into two companies this year, one focused on
drugs and the other on medical devices, generic medicines and
nutritional drinks. The pharmaceutical side faces emerging
competition for its top seller, the autoimmune drug  Humira (WKUPHUMI) .
Revenue also dropped last year for cholesterol pills after
studies questioned their effectiveness.  “The sales miss was driven largely by” the dollar’s rise
against currencies elsewhere, which reduced the value of revenue
outside the U.S., said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst
in New York, in a note to clients. “Pharma sales missed by
almost $100 million, again largely driven by foreign exchange.”  Abbott said the breakup was “on track,” without providing
details. The company forecast 2012 profit of $4.95 a share to
$5.05 a share, compared with the analysts’ average estimate of
$5.03 a share compiled by Bloomberg.  Share Repurchases  The company also said it would resume a share repurchase
program this year.  Abbott has increased 3.7 percent since Oct. 19, the day the
company announced its breakup.  Net income  rose 12 percent to $1.62 billion, or $1.02 a
share, from $1.44 billion, or 92 cents, a year earlier, when
Abbott took $584 million in charges for acquisitions and job
cuts. Earnings excluding one-time items were $1.45 a share,
topping by 1 cent the $1.44 average of 18 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings were boosted by an improved  tax rate  and a
better-than-expected profit margin, said Damien Conover, a
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  analyst in  Chicago . Humira’s 15 percent sales
increase in the quarter “should be good” for the stock,
showing Abbott can sustain the drug’s momentum, he said in an e-
mail.  Job Cuts  Abbott also announced about 300 job cuts today in the
division that makes heart stents, tiny metal tubes inserted in
patients to prop open diseased arteries. The cuts come in
advance of the end of an agreement with Natick, Massachusetts-
based  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , said Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman.  Boston Scientific licenses Abbott’s Xience stent to sell
under its Promus label in a deal that ends this year, Infante
said. Boston Scientific won U.S. regulatory approval in November
to sell its own stent, called Promus Element.  Abbott is eliminating the positions at the Temecula,
California, plant where its devices are made, Infante said in a
telephone interview. “Several hundred more” jobs will be cut
in the division this year, she said, declining to be more
specific.  About 200 more will be cut in other businesses, including
pharmaceutical manufacturing in  Puerto Rico , Infante said.
Separately, Abbott will eliminate another 200 jobs, mostly in
the Chicago area, as part of a previously announced
restructuring in its diagnostics division, she said.  Restructuring Charge  The company took an 18-cent charge in the fourth quarter
for those two actions and other initiatives. The cuts are in
addition to a restructuring last year that eliminated 1,900
pharmaceutical jobs, Infante said.  In its earnings statement today, Abbott said it employs
about 91,000 people.  Abbott CEO White declined to say how the company’s current
debt and dividend would be split among the two successors, in
comments on a conference call today with analysts. Abbott will
issue a regulatory filing with more details in the latter part
of the first half of this year, Chief Financial Officer Thomas Freyman said on the call.  The company has said the combined dividend of the two new
companies will be equal to Abbott’s current payout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  