-- Abraaj May Invest in Egyptian, Saudi Arabian Companies
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-01-25T16:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/abraaj-may-invest-in-egyptian-saudi-arabian-companies-1-.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the  Middle
East ’s biggest private-equity company, is in “advanced stages”
of investing $20 million in small and medium-sized Egyptian
companies and is also targeting investments in  Saudi Arabia .  The firm will be “making two or potentially three
investments” in  Egypt  soon in industries including
“agribusiness and information technology,” Tom Speechley, a
senior partner, said today in an interview at the World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Abraaj, based in Dubai, is also
considering its first small and medium-enterprise “investment
in Saudi Arabia, in the health-care and information-technology
industry,” he said.  Speechley is chief executive officer of Abraaj’s Riyada
Enterprise Development Fund, set up in 2009 to raise $500
million to buy stakes in more than 100 small and medium-sized
companies in the Middle East, North Africa,  Turkey  and  Pakistan 
over the next four years.  Gulf Arab economies pump more than 20 percent of the
world’s crude oil and have been spending tens of billions of
dollars on infrastructure and industry to boost growth, creating
opportunities for private-equity companies. Oil-exporting
economies of the Middle East and North Africa will expand by an
average 3.6 percent this year and by 5.1 percent in 2013,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Saudi Arabia  In August, Abraaj acquired the North African private-equity
fund of Amundi, the French asset manager jointly owned by
Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)  The company, which
manages about $6.2 billion, took over management of the $161
million SGAM Al Kantara Fund and absorbed its 11-member
investment team to boost its presence in North Africa.  In Saudi Arabia, “there is a huge opportunity for reasons
that include a wave of new entrepreneurship, including women
entrepreneurs, and because SMEs are often in the supply chain of
larger conglomerates and in Saudi Arabia you do have larger
conglomerates,” Speechley said. “Right across the region we
see the SME segment as both a phenomenal investment opportunity
but also the key driver of economic and job growth.”  Abraaj started a company in Saudi Arabia in January 2011
with 2 billion riyals ($533 million) to invest in small and
medium-sized enterprises, private equity, public  capital markets 
and real estate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Davos, Switzerland at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  