-- Accused Inside Traders Kuo, Newman Released on Bond in N.Y.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-25T19:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/accused-inside-traders-kuo-newman-appear-before-u-s-judge.html
Danny Kuo and  Todd Newman , two of
seven men accused of taking part in a “criminal club” of hedge
fund traders and analysts who swapped illegal secrets involving
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , were allowed to remain free on bond.  Both Kuo, a former  fund manager  at Whittier Trust Co., and
Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC, were arrested on Jan. 18 by agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation . Kuo, who was arrested at his
home in San Marino,  California , and Newman were ordered to
appear in Manhattan federal court today to face the charges.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger agreed to release
Newman on $3 million bond secured by $750,000 in cash. He also
ordered Newman to surrender his travel documents and limit his
travel to parts of New York, as well as to Massachusetts,  Rhode
Island  and Connecticut.  “My client has been aware of the investigation for more
than a year, and in addition, there were reports in December
that he would be charged and nothing happened,” his lawyer,
Alfred Pavlis, told Dolinger. “His actions show that he intends
to appear in court and respond to the charges.”  Dolinger directed that Kuo be released on $300,000 bond and
surrender his Taiwanese and U.S. passports.  Close Ties  Citing Kuo’s ties to Taiwan, Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  said the U.S. wanted more stringent restrictions
placed on his movements, and those of his wife and child. The
prosecutor also said Kuo had lost his job and stopped going to
school, further loosening his links to the U.S.  Dolinger said Kuo’s wife must notify court authorities in
writing two weeks in advance if she or the couple’s child will
be making any “significant” travel outside the U.S.  Newman and Kuo are each charged with conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and securities fraud. They face as long as 25
years in prison if found guilty, prosecutors said.  Newman, Kuo and their co-defendants reaped almost
$62 million from insider trades in the personal-computer maker,
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said last week. The tipping scheme
included one trade that earned a $53 million illegal windfall
for Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and
his fund, prosecutors said. Chiasson also has been arrested and
charged.  A five-year insider-trading probe by Bharara’s office,
dubbed “Perfect Hedge” by the FBI, has resulted in charges
against 63 people, Janice Fedarcyk, head of the bureau’s  New
York  office, said last week. More than 50 have pleaded guilty or
been convicted after trial since 2009, including Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  