-- Made in Britain Increases as Europe No. 4 With Nissan-Tata: Cars
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/made-in-britain-increases-as-europe-no-4-with-nissan-tata-cars.html
Britain’s auto industry, which lost
its last major homegrown manufacturer in 2005, is back among
Europe’s top producers following an Asia-inspired revival led by
 Japan ’s  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  of  India .  The U.K. built 1.34 million cars in 2011, a 6 percent gain,
ranking it fourth in Europe and narrowing the gap with  France 
and Spain. Estimated output of 1.45 million autos this year
would be more than double the total in  Italy , home to  Fiat SpA. (F)   Japanese carmakers, which chose Britain as a European base
in the 1980s, account for 52 percent of the total after Nissan
hit record production at the country’s biggest plant in
Sunderland, England. Luxury U.K. nameplates, which survived
through foreign takeovers, are also helping an economy on the
brink of recession, with Jaguar Land Rover, bought by Tata from
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , recruiting enough people to contemplate three
shifts at its Solihull plant for the first time in 60 years.  “It’s astonishing,” said Tony Walker, the deputy managing
director of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s British unit, where he began in
1990 after working at Ford. “I could never have imagined that
Japanese companies could have been making the majority of cars
in the U.K.”  Overseas carmakers are filling a void left by a decline in
Britain’s auto industry that followed the nation’s entry into
the European Economic Community in 1973.  Peak Production  The decision prompted a surge in imports -- which rose from
8 percent of sales in 1968 to 50 percent by 1979 -- exposing the
poor quality of U.K. models, said Garel Rhys of Cardiff
University Business School, who blames bad management for an
“entrepreneurial gap.”  The decline in domestic manufacturing culminated in the
2005 collapse of Birmingham-based MG Rover, the last volume
producer and a relic of postwar consolidation that took in
dozens of brands including Austin, Morris, Triumph and Wolseley.  U.K. output peaked at 1.9 million vehicles in 1972, 50
percent of them built by British Leyland, later part of Rover,
according to the  Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders . The
industry group said that total could be surpassed within five
years, given commitments for the U.K. manufacture of models such
as Nissan’s Leaf electric car and a roadster version of
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Mini, made in Oxford, near  London .  Italian Decline  U.K. output this year will be within 200,000 units of  Spain 
and 300,000 of France, according to PwC’s Autofacts automotive
forecasting division.  Germany  is Europe’s No. 1 producer, making
5.5 million cars in 2010, more than twice the number in France.  Italian output fell 15 percent to 456,000 cars in the first
11 months of 2011, automaker association Anfia said.  Nissan’s vice president for the U.K., Kevin Fitzpatrick,
said in an interview that Britain’s auto industry is undergoing
a “renaissance.” The Tokyo-based company, which established
its Sunderland plant in 1986, now accounts for one in every
three cars built in the U.K., led by its Qashqai crossover.  “All companies have invested quite heavily; we certainly
have,” said Fitzpatrick. “So what we’ve got now is quite a
modern industry with good facilities.”  BMW plans to spend 500 million pounds ($780 million) in the
U.K. by 2014, taking investment to more than 1.5 billion pounds
since 2000, when a failed rescue of Rover caused it to sell the
main business for 10 pounds. The  Mini  sold a record 285,000 cars
in 2011, while luxury unit  Rolls-Royce , marketed as a British
brand despite being German since 1998, sold 3,538, the most in
its 107-year history, aided by a new factory.  Job Creation  Jaguar Land Rover will spend 355 million pounds on a  new
engine plant , it said Sept. 19. It’s also adding 1,000 workers
in Solihull, where the Range Rover and Discovery luxury SUVs are
made, or enough to add a shift, the  BBC  reported Jan. 20, citing
unions. JLR said it doesn’t comment on work patterns.  The automotive industry employs more than 700,000 people
from manufacturing to retailing, according to the Society of
Motor Manufacturers and Traders.  Toyota, which builds the Avensis and Auris models in
Burnaston,  England , and engines in  Wales , set up in the U.K. in
part because of the size of the market, Walker said.  While Japanese companies were drawn by sales opportunities
as homegrown output fell, Britain has become important for
satisfying regional demand, helping to make autos the U.K.’s
third-biggest  export  after engineered goods and oil. Three-
quarters of cars sent abroad go to European Union countries.  Carmaking has emerged as a success story even as U.K.
unemployment rises and  consumer confidence  falls. The economy
probably shrank in the fourth quarter for the first time in a
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists. The
contraction may herald a slide back into a recession, the Ernst
& Young ITEM Club research group predicts.  Pound Barrier  The biggest threat to the U.K. production levels may be
from fluctuations in the value of the euro versus the pound,
said  Peter Schmidt , managing director of Warwick, England-based
Automotive Industry Data.  Sterling fell 38 percent against the euro between 2000 and
2010, making British products less expensive for Europeans, just
as the proportion of U.K.-built cars that went for export rose
from 65 percent to 76 percent, according to SMMT figures.  Toyota is effectively hedged because it buys parts from U.K.
suppliers in euros, according to Walker. Graham Hoare, executive
director of powertrain engineering at Ford, which last year
built 1.7 million engines in Dagenham, London, and Bridgend,
Wales, said that the opposite applies, with many components
sourced from continental  Europe , so that a weaker pound creates
“headwinds” and makes it tougher to remain competitive.  “If the euro were to founder it could lead to the closure
of one U.K. plant after another,” said Schmidt. “Manufacturers
cannot afford to make cars at a loss. Nobody can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  