-- Africa Crop Investors Urged to Be ‘Wary’ of Worsening Conflicts
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-01-25T15:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/africa-crop-investors-urged-to-be-wary-of-worsening-conflicts.html
Investors in African land should be
wary of conflicts in  Ethiopia  and Sudan if they plan to use
fields in the countries to grow crops for export, said Jason
Mosley, a senior analyst on  Africa  at Oxford Analytica.  Outside investors are buying land to grow crops for export,
according to a report by Mosley, released today by London-based
international affairs researcher  Chatham House . Foreign
investments in African land could worsen current conflicts or
create new ones, he said.  “Given the potential for existing local drivers of
violence to be exacerbated by such projects, investors should be
wary of the prospect of becoming embroiled in these dynamics, or
caught between the state and local communities should grievances
escalate into conflict,” Mosley said in the report.  The scale of foreign investment in African land isn’t clear
as information from Ethiopia,  Sudan  and South Sudan is
“extremely limited,” according to the report. Saying
governments are victims of land grabs by foreign investors is an
oversimplification, Mosley said.  “Little clear information has emerged about the intentions
of the would-be investors, whether they are motivated by
speculation on the potential value of the land in the future, or
actually intend to move forward with the mooted projects,” he
said in the report.  Long-running conflicts in the Horn of Africa ranging from
large wars between countries to civil wars to small-scale
pastoral disputes indicate the potential for agricultural
endeavors to create or worsen strife in the region, Mosley said.  South Sudan Investments  “There is the potential for large-scale agricultural
projects to exacerbate or create tensions over the land in
question between the investors and the local population, or
between local communities,” he said.  In the newly formed  South Sudan , large-scale agricultural
investments have been reported, “some of enormous
proportions,” according to the report. The country’s fledgling
government, the Sudan Peoples’ Liberation Movement, probably
isn’t equipped to handle such investments, so investors may
align with alternative political powers, Mosley said.  Investors may “align with opposition political movements
that, while co-opted at present, may more seriously challenge
the SPLM for control,” he said. “If alternative political
power centers emerge in South Sudan, large-scale land projects
could become a focal point for dissent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 