-- Thailand Cuts Key Rate to Support Recovery From Floods Amid Global Slump
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-25T08:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/thailand-cuts-key-rate-to-support-recovery-from-floods-amid-global-slump.html
The Bank of Thailand  cut  interest
rates  for the second consecutive meeting to help spur a recovery
from the worst floods in almost 70 years as a deteriorating
global economy threatens growth.  The central bank reduced its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent, it said in
Bangkok today, a decision predicted by all 15 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Policy makers cut the rate for the first
time in more than two years at the previous meeting on Nov. 30.  Thailand  joins the  Philippines ,  Indonesia  and  India  in
easing monetary policy after the World Bank said last week a
recession in the euro region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown
in  emerging markets . Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has
pledged to spend 350 billion baht ($11.1 billion) on
infrastructure to prevent a repeat of floods that caused the
worst slump in industrial output in more than 10 years.  “The BOT seems to be quite concerned about the growth
outlook,” said Satoshi Ushijima, vice president of the treasury
division in Bangkok at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “While other
Asian nations have also eased policies to help growth, Thailand
had the floods. So, another rate cut can’t be ruled out.”  The baht weakened 0.2 percent to 31.54 per dollar as of
3:17 p.m. local time. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  lost 0.7 percent.
The currency has slipped about 2.2 percent in the past three
months and the  stock index  gained about 12 percent.  Rate ‘Appropriate’  “After two rate cuts, we think the current rate at 3
percent is appropriate for both growth and the inflation
outlook,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said at a
briefing. The economic impact of last year’s floods was greater
than earlier estimated, and a recovery in manufacturing may be
delayed by one to two months, Paiboon said today.  The floods shuttered more than 16,000 factories, reducing
Thailand’s economic growth last year to about 1.5 percent,
compared with estimates of as high as 4.5 percent before the
deluge, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week.  “Thailand can’t afford a repeat of the floods,” Kittiratt
said. “No one will give us a second chance.”  Even though the floodwaters receded in December,  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  won’t resume full production in Thailand until
early in the second half, Chief Executive Officer John Coyne
said Jan. 16 in Bangkok. Honda Motor Co. will need to spend more
than 50 billion yen ($642 million) to renovate damaged
factories, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Jan. 15.  Recovery Delayed  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
Indonesia, may have contracted 5 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, according to the  finance ministry .  Exports (THCTEXPY)  shrank
2 percent in December, compared with a 12.4 percent slide a
month earlier, the commerce ministry said Jan. 20.  Economic growth last year will be lower than an earlier
estimate of 1.8 percent, Paiboon said. The central bank now
expects manufacturing output to return to normal in the third
quarter, compared with an earlier forecast for a second-quarter
recovery, he said.  Inflation (THCPIYOY)  pressure has eased, reflecting a more prolonged
recovery in domestic demand and a slowdown in commodity price
gains, he said. Reconstruction spending and government stimulus
measures may still cause inflation to accelerate, he said.  The central bank is scheduled to give an updated economic
forecast on Feb. 3.  Global Risks  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast by the most
in three years last week, predicting the world economy will grow
2.5 percent this year, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent.
Growth in Asian economies is faltering as  Europe ’s debt woes
hurt the region’s exports. China reported last week its weakest
expansion in 10 quarters.  The Philippines cut interest rates last week for the first
time since July 2009 and  Bank Indonesia  widened the lower range
of its interbank lending rate in a de facto easing of monetary
policy. India’s central bank yesterday reduced the amount of
deposits lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first
time since 2009 and signaled future interest-rate cuts.  “We expect the central bank to pause after this as risks
on inflation are still there with the government’s stimulus
policies in place,”  Thanomsri Fongarunrung , an economist at
Phatra Securities Pcl in Bangkok, said before the decision.
“They may act again only if the global economy deteriorates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  