-- Airbus Works With Airlines on A380 Wing Cracks
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-01-25T09:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/airbus-understands-a380-wing-cracks-working-with-airlines.html
Airbus (EAD)  SAS is working with airlines
to overcome the wing cracks discovered in some A380 superjumbo
aircraft, after European safety regulators called for deeper
inspections to understand the cause of the fissures.  “It’s unfortunate,” Airbus Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders said in Davos, Switzerland, in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum . “We understand the problem. We are working with
airlines to mitigate their fears.”  Airlines operating Airbus’s A380 superjumbo must ground 20
planes or almost one-third of the world fleet within the next
six weeks to check for wing cracks. The European Aviation Safety
Agency issued a directive on Jan. 20 requiring inspections after
the issue was discovered.  The A380 double-decker aircraft is the biggest commercial
jet in operation, and Airbus has required years to smooth out
production glitches and move the program toward profitability.
The airliner is used by carriers including Emirates,  Air France (AF) 
KLM Group,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Singapore Airlines (SIA) , and has
been a hit with travelers for its added space and perks that
include private suites and showers for premium passengers.  Airbus wants to deliver about 30 of the aircraft to
customers this year as it slowly ramps up production. Singapore
was the first carrier to put the jet into service in 2007, and
Emirates is the biggest customer, with 90 A380s on order in
total.  “We are liaising closely with Airbus and we are carrying
out the precautionary inspections as required by the
airworthiness directive,” said Nicholas Ionides, a spokesman
for Singapore Airlines. “We will ensure that we will take
whatever action is needed for the continued safe operation of
our A380 fleet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  