-- Alcatel-Lucent to Cut Up to 1,800 Europe Jobs, Union Says
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-09T16:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/alcatel-lucent-ceo-says-asia-is-ahead-in-digital-economy.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  (ALU),  France ’s largest
telecommunications-equipment supplier, plans to eliminate as
many as 1,800 positions in  Europe (ALU)  through firings and
relocation, a top union official said.  Almost 500 positions in  Italy , or 20 percent of the total
in the country, will probably go, Philippe Saint-Aubin, a
representative of the European workers’ council for the Paris-
based company, said in an interview today. Also affected will be
more than 10 percent of the workforce in Belgium, and 5 percent
in France, where Alcatel  employs  9,000 workers, he said.  Alcatel-Lucent, scheduled to report earnings tomorrow, lags
behind rivals such as Nokia Siemens Networks in adjusting its
workforce as phone companies withhold gear orders. Nokia Siemens,
the venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , said in November 
it will cut 17,000 jobs, or about 23 percent of its workforce.  Alcatel Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, who took
over two years after the 2006 merger with U.S.-based Lucent,
vowed to make profits and cash generation “normal” at the gear
maker by the end of 2011. As his three-year turnaround plan
neared its end, Verwaayen has delayed into this year a goal of
making the company generate positive free  cash flow .  ‘Maximize Workforce’  After five  consecutive years  of losses, analysts estimate
Alcatel will report 2011 net income of 396 million euros,
according to the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales probably slipped 0.8 percent to 15.88 billion euros from a
year earlier, the average of 31 estimates.  Alcatel isn’t alone in facing shrinking demand from telecom
operators.  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  last month cited slowing spending from
North American customers to explain a slump in quarterly
earnings, which sent the stock down 14 percent within a day.  “Our priority is to continue to reduce our fixed and
variable costs,” Alcatel-Lucent spokesmanSimon Poulter said,
declining to comment on the number of positions affected. “We
are doing that through a number of measures. They include the
application of our global presence to maximize our workforce and
apply talent effectively where it can generate value.”  Verwaayen, a former  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  CEO, told Les Echos
newspaper last month that it was “out of the question to reduce
our workforce by 25 percent.”  Employee strike  The job targets were communicated at a Jan. 18 meeting with
management, Saint-Aubin said.  “The Italian unit is most threatened today and we’re not
sure that we will be able to reposition everyone being targeted
in  Belgium ,” he said. “In France we are not sure that we will
end the year without some damage.”  About 600 to 700 employees -- some from Italy and Belgium -
- are expected to gather tomorrow in front of Alcatel-Lucent’s
headquarters to protest a worldwide freeze in salaries, Roland
Tutrel and Stephane Dubled, two union representatives for the
French unit, said in separate interviews.  At the end of 2010, Alcatel-Lucent employed about 79,000
workers worldwide, its annual report showed.  Shares (ALU)  of Alcatel-Lucent climbed 0.2 percent to close at
1.50 euros in Paris. The stock had fallen about 44 percent in
the past 12 months. Ericsson slipped 0.2 percent to 62.55 euros
on the Stockholm exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  