-- New York Developers May Lose Two Manhattan Hotels After Foreclosure Ruling
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-25T22:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/manhattan-boutique-hotels-alex-flatotel-face-foreclosure-on-court-ruling.html
New York  developers Simon Elias and
Izak Senbahar may lose two boutique hotels in midtown  Manhattan 
after a state judge cleared an investor group to proceed with
foreclosure on the properties.  Justice Joan Madden of state Supreme Court ruled Jan. 11
that the investors can foreclose on the  Alex , a 205-room hotel
on East 45th Street, and the 272-room  Flatotel  on West 52nd
Street.  The investors’ group sued the developers in 2010, seeking
to recover principal and interest on loan agreements related to
the hotels that the group bought from  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. (ANGL) ,
which was nationalized in 2009 and is being wound down over a
decade.  The developers defaulted on the loans, which were used to
fund renovations for the  Mark Hotel  on Madison Avenue at 77th
Street, in 2009.  Anglo Irish  then sold the loans in 2010 to the
investor group, comprising the Rockpoint Group LLC, Atlas
Capital Group LLC and the Procaccianti Group -- competitors of
the developers that own and manage hotel and residential real
estate in New York and elsewhere.  “We’re pleased by the decisions granting foreclosure on
the Alex and the Flatotel,” Marc E. Kasowitz, an attorney
representing the investors group, said in a telephone interview.
“They are well-reasoned and correct.”  $320 Million Owed  The developers owe more than $320 million on the
properties, including principal, interest and late fees,
Kasowitz said. Kent Anker, a lawyer representing the developers,
didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment on the ruling.  Elias and Senbahar borrowed $49 million from Anglo in 2004
to take out an existing loan on the Alex, an amount later
increased to $75 million, Madden said in her ruling. In 2005,
the developers and Anglo agreed to acquire the Mark and develop
it into suites for $300 million, with Anglo committing $219
million for the project.  Anglo loaned the developers another $240 million in 2007 to
finance the acquisition of the Flatotel, which had been in
bankruptcy. The Irish bank provided more funds in 2007 and 2008
on the condition that they be used for construction at the Mark.  2008 Bridge Loan  The developers took out a one-year $10 million bridge loan
on the Alex in May 2008, with the proceeds to be used to fund
the Mark renovation on the understanding that the money wouldn’t
be repaid until the Mark was complete and all its suites sold,
Madden said in her ruling.  The developers invested another $14.7 million in the Mark
above the project’s budget from August to December 2008. They
were still short of funds “because of worsening market
conditions and their internal estimates of remaining work and
expenses,” Madden said in the ruling.  Anglo and the developers in November 2008 agreed to cancel
the Flatotel renovations and temporarily relieve the bank’s
obligation to fund them, with the developers taking out another
$10 million bridge loan, this time on the Flatotel.  The developers then stopped making interest payments and
reserving funds for real estate taxes on the Alex and the
Flatotel with the knowledge of Anglo, to help fund the Mark
construction and pay the hotels’ operating expenses, Madden
wrote.  2009 Loans  The developers borrowed another $23.4 million in April 2009
from Anglo for Mark construction expenses, pledging their
interests in the entities that owned the two boutique hotels.
Three months later, they borrowed another $50 million.  The developers then began talks with Anglo in an attempt to
extend the loan to finance continued marketing of the Mark
suites, which if fully sold would allow the developers to
negotiate financing, repay the bridge loans and renovate the
Flatotel, Madden said in the ruling.  In May 2010, Elias was approached by a person named Steven
Witkoff, who asked about the state of the Anglo refinancing,
said he was a potential ally and partner, and promised to keep
all information confidential, Madden wrote.  Elias met with Witkoff three times and “disclosed
significant details” about the status of talks with Anglo,
Madden said. Witkoff turned out to be a close friend of Jeffrey
Goldberger, a principal of Atlas Capital, and Anglo sold the
loans to the investors group, Madden said.  The developers sued Anglo Irish in December 2010, claiming
more than $1 billion in damages for breach of contract and
accusing the bank of reneging on a promise to extend the loans
until the suites were sold.  The news was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  The cases are RPAP Hotel Debt (Alex) LLC v. 205 East 45
LLC, 650963/2010, and RPAP Hotel Debt (Flatotel) LLC v. EALC
LLC, 651154/2010, New York State  Supreme Court , New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 