-- Apple Investors Await a Dividend Gusher
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/apple-investors-await-dividend-gusher-as-cook-ponders-cash-hoard.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has Wall Street’s full
attention after hinting at plans for the company’s $100 billion
cash pile that may lead to  stockholders  receiving a dividend.  Apple is “actively discussing” uses for its cash,
including a dividend, buyback, acquisitions and supply-chain
investments, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  told
analysts and investors Jan. 24 in an earnings conference call.  The comments were a welcome sign for investors who have
called for a dividend as Cupertino, California-based Apple has
added to its balance sheet. Apple’s $97.6 billion in cash and
investments is larger than the market value of all but 26
companies in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index. The total could
reach $150 billion by year-end if the company doesn’t give money
back to shareholders, said David Rolfe, chief investment officer
of Wedgewood Partners Inc.  “They have turned into the  First National Bank  of
Cupertino,” said Rolfe, whose firm manages $1.3 billion in
assets, including Apple shares. “Common sense dictates that
they don’t need a cash hoard of $150 billion.”  Apple reported fiscal first-quarter profit this week that
more than doubled to a record $13.1 billion, boosted by holiday
purchases of the iPhone and iPad tablet. Sales jumped 73 percent
to $46.3 billion. Gross margin, the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the cost of production, rose to 44.7
percent, from 38.5 percent a year earlier, the company said.  Shares Surge  A dividend is a recurring payment made by companies to its
shareholders, typically as a percentage of profit given each
quarter. For Apple, a dividend of 3 percent could propel the
stock as high as $550 a share, said Rolfe, who expects Apple to
announce such a move later this year.  Apple  rose  6.2 percent to $446.66 at the close of trading
yesterday. The stock is up 31 percent in the past 12 months.  A policy change would attract a new class of investors who
only buy shares of companies that offer dividends, said  Brian White , an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC.  “It’s going to be a gusher when they tap into that
thing,” White said. “It’s like tapping into an oil field out
in  Texas .”  Analysts at Canaccord Genuity Corp., Jefferies & Co. and
Morgan Stanley also expect Apple to announce a dividend or
buyback.  Showing Confidence  Even so, not all  analysts  say a dividend is a good idea.
Apple’s refusal to return the money to shareholders -- even a
one-time payment that wouldn’t recur each quarter -- speaks to
the confidence of a company that intends to chase giant growth
opportunities, said  Trip Chowdhry , an analyst at  Redwood City ,
California-based  Global Equities Research .  “If Apple declares a dividend, it would be an indication
to me that it’s time to get out of the stock,” Chowdhry said.  Oppenheimer, Apple’s finance chief, didn’t say if, or when,
Apple would disclose a decision about use for its cash.  “We’re examining all uses of our cash balance -- what we
might do in the supply chain, what we can do from an acquisition
perspective, and otherwise,” said Oppenheimer. “In the
meantime, we’re not letting it burn a hole in our pockets.”  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said last year that
he wasn’t “religious” about holding on to Apple’s cash. That
signaled a change from co-founder  Steve Jobs , who had been more
resistant to shareholder calls for a dividend or buyback.  Ticonderoga’s White said it would be a surprise if Apple
made a large acquisition, something it typically doesn’t do.  On the call, Oppenheimer described Apple’s approach to
making acquisitions.  “We have done acquisitions where they tended to be smaller
or medium-sized companies that have just great engineering and
other talent, a great start on a product or a technology that
we’d like to bring into Apple,” he said. “We tend to do
several a year. We’re very, very disciplined in how we think
about this and how we do it, and I think our track record here
has been very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  