-- Apple ‘Didn’t Bet High Enough’ on China Demand for IPhone 4S, Cook Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-25T06:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/apple-didn-t-bet-high-enough-on-chinese-demand-for-iphone-4s-cook-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  underestimated the
“staggering” demand for the iPhone 4S when it started sales in
 China  this month, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said.  “We thought we were betting bold,” Cook said about sales
of the device in China on a conference call yesterday. “We
didn’t bet high enough.”  Crowds pelted Apple’s oldest store in China with eggs on
Jan. 13 when the shop in Beijing’s Sanlitun district failed to
open on the first day of sales for the iPhone 4S. After Beijing
police sealed off the area to remove more than 500 people, Apple
announced that it would suspend sales of iPhones at all stores
in Beijing and  Shanghai  “for the time being” to ensure safety.  With sales halted at its China retail outlets, Apple is now
offering the iPhone in the world’s largest mobile phone market
through its online store, carrier partner  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. , and authorized resellers. The company’s online store
in China is currently sold out of the iPhone 4S.  Chinese demand for the handset is “off the charts,” Cook
said on the call.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , this month moved
closer to expanding its distribution in China through a second
carrier partner when regulators approved specifications for a
device that would run on the network of  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the
nation’s third-largest wireless carrier.  Cook declined to answer questions about when a second
carrier would be added in China.  ‘Key Partner’  “China Unicom continues to be a very key partner,” he
said on the call. “I’ve got nothing to announce today on an
expansion there, but as I’ve consistently said, China is an
extremely important market for us and we continue to look at how
to grow it further.”  Apple announced yesterday that  quarterly profit  more than
doubled to $13.1 billion in the period that ended Dec. 31 on
surging demand for the iPhone and iPad.  The company sold 5.6 million iPhones in China during the
first nine months of last year, making it the No. 4 smartphone
vendor in the country in the third quarter, according to
Stamford, Connecticut-based research company Gartner Inc.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  