-- Arab Nations to Join U.S. in Pressing Russia Over Syria Resolution at UN
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-25T13:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/arab-nations-u-s-to-press-russia-on-syria-resolution-at-united-nations.html
Arab and Western nations are
planning a diplomatic push at the  United Nations  to persuade
Russia to back the Arab League’s call for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to relinquish power.  Qatar, Morocco, the U.S. and the U.K. are among the nations
trying to overcome Russian resistance to sanctioning Syria by
promoting a UN Security Council draft resolution that has strong
Arab backing, according to a UN diplomat who wasn’t authorized
to speak on the record.  The measure “condemns the continued and gross violations
of human rights and fundamental freedoms” by Syrian authorities
and calls for the Assad regime to implement Arab League
resolutions for a “political transition,” according to a copy
of the document obtained by Bloomberg.  “We are going to present all Arab resolutions, including
the one from two days ago, to the  Security Council  so the
highest authority in the world can adopt them,” Qatar Prime
Minister Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al Thani said in an interview
with Al Jazeera television yesterday.  Russia provides both political support and arms to Syria.
Russia and China, veto-wielding members of the Security Council,
blocked a European-led Oct. 4 attempt to sanction Syria in
response to the regime’s crackdown on protesters.  Russian Stance  The draft resolution was produced during discussions
between the U.K., U.S., France and Arab nations, as Russia
indicated its growing frustration with Assad.  “It’s big if the Russians sign on to it,” said  Andrew Tabler , a Syria analyst at the  Washington  Institute for Near
East Policy, a research group.  The first response from Russia was not encouraging. Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, a former Russian ambassador at the UN,
said today after meeting in Moscow with his Turkish counterpart
that Russia continues to oppose calls for the UN to back
sanctions against Syria.  Syria rejected a critical  Arab League  report and Persian
Gulf states decided to withdraw from the league’s observer
mission. The league has asked other Arab countries to provide
replacements, Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported
today. Syria approved the league’s request to extend the
monitoring to Feb. 24, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
reported yesterday.  The Arab League compiled a report after sending observers
to Syria on Dec. 26 to ensure Assad stuck to his pledge to
withdraw security forces from cities, release political
prisoners and allow anti-government demonstrations.  ‘Game-Changer’  The league’s plan, approved Jan. 22 in Cairo, calls for the
government and opposition to start a dialogue within two weeks
and form a national unity government within two months. The
draft Security Council resolution notes Arab League sanctions
against Syria and encourages other countries to follow suit.  “I hope it will be a game-changer,” said Peter Wittig,
 Germany ’s ambassador to the UN. “It remains to be seen, first
of all, if we can agree and if we can recover unity here in the
Council.”  Among the 15 member countries on the Security Council, the
U.S. and the Europeans represented by the U.K., France,  Portugal 
and Germany favor a resolution with sanctions. In the opposing
camp Russia is joined by  China ,  South Africa ,  India  and  Brazil .  ‘Open the Door’  “If approved, it would open the door to putting UN
sanctions on Syria,” Tabler said in an interview yesterday.  The Qatari Prime Minister told Doha-based Al Jazeera that
Arab countries “didn’t ask the United Nations for a military
intervention. We only ask it to adopt and support the Arab
decisions.”  Russia has been wary of any UN-backed use of military
action, such as the operation that eventually helped topple
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Yesterday, Kremlin envoy to  Africa  and the Middle East
Mikhail Margelov said Russia is losing confidence in the
possibility of a negotiated outcome in Syria. Assad hasn’t
responded to efforts to promote a peaceful solution to the 10-
month-old unrest, Margelov said in a telephone interview.  “We don’t see any willingness, either from the authorities
or the protesters, to reach an agreement,” Margelov said.  Russia  presented its own UN draft resolution earlier that
demanded all parties immediately stop the violence. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton was among the leaders who criticized the
document for its seeming parity between the regime and
protesters.  Russian Resistance  Officials at the U.S. Mission to the UN had no comment.  The new UN draft calls on all sides to halt attacks. Even
so,  Jon Alterman , who directs the Middle East Program at
Washington’s Center for Strategic and International Studies,
said it remains unlikely that Russia will back the draft
resolution.  “It’s hard to imagine either the Chinese or Russians
signing on to this,” Alterman said.  He cited the two countries’ ties to Syria and their
concerns that  Iran , a close Syrian ally, would become isolated
if the Assad regime were toppled.  The U.K.,  France  and the U.S. are trying to arrange
briefings by the Qatari prime minister and the Arab League
president for the 15-member Security Council, according to the
UN diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private.  Even if the resolution does get approval, “it won’t stop
the killing,” Tabler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  