-- Arab Spring Leaves Davos Investors Skeptical One Year After Egypt Eruption
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-26T06:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/arab-spring-stumps-davos-investors-one-year-after-egypt-eruption.html
One year after Egypt knocked global
finance off the agenda at the  World Economic Forum , Arab
officials returning to Davos may struggle to drum up interest in
the region.  Across North Africa, where uprisings ended the autocratic
rule of three men, economic growth has stalled, stock markets
have slumped and Egyptian bond yields are at a record, with the
 nine-month treasury bill  at 15.802 percent. Foreign direct
investment in the Middle East and North Africa last year was the
lowest since 2005.  Failure to lure investments threatens to hinder the
transition to democratic rule and may spark more deadly
protests, while energy-rich states, such as Saudi Arabia, may
struggle to diversify their economies and cut the world’s
highest youth unemployment rates.  “There’s certainly long-term potential in the Middle East,
but that’s not necessarily a compliment,” said Michael Cirami,
who helps manage $12 billion at Boston-based Eaton Vance.
“What’s unfortunate is that there’s so much low-hanging fruit
and so much the governments can do to improve the situation.”  Even in the  Persian Gulf , which escaped most of the
turmoil, financial markets are struggling. Dubai, home to the
world’s tallest building, has lost 41 of the 98 local brokerages
active in 2008, while Kuwaiti trading volumes slumped almost 50
percent last year.  Renewed Protests  “A singular failure of the Arab world is that it has been
unable to develop a private sector that is independent,
competitive and integrated with global markets,” Adeel Malik
and Bassem Awadallah, who is in Davos, wrote in an Oxford
University study released last month.  Tens of thousands of Egyptians poured into the capital’s
 Tahrir Square  overnight to protest against the interim military
rulers and celebrate the anniversary of the start of the
uprising that ended President  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule. Fireworks
lit the sky before dusk while banners were erected vowing to
avenge the deaths of civilians during the revolt, in which at
least 846 people died.  A year ago, the Arab Spring burst onto the agenda of the
World Economic Forum’s annual meeting on Jan. 28 amid escalating
protests. As the forum’s official schedule debated the outlook
for the world economy, some delegates sat in their hotel rooms
watching televised images of Cairo set ablaze and the changing
 Middle East  dominated talk at the Davos party circuit that
Friday evening, the highlight of the gathering’s social scene.  A year later, protesters accuse the army of mismanaging the
country’s transition and using tactics similar to Mubarak’s to
stifle dissent. Dozens have been killed in clashes between
demonstrators and security forces in the past three months.  Arab Spring Debate  At least six panels at this year’s World Economic Forum are
about the Middle East, including a televised debate on “The
Implications of the Arab Spring” and an address by Tunisian
Prime Minister Hammadi Jebali.  Other Arab officials headed to Davos include Mohamed Al- Mady, chief executive officer of Saudi Basic Industries, the
world’s biggest petrochemical maker, and Rafik Ben Abdessalem,
the foreign minister of  Tunisia ’s first elected government since
the overthrow of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali a year ago.  Tunisia’s  benchmark stock index  fell 8 percent in 2011, the
first annual loss since 2002, while  Egypt’s benchmark  slumped 49
percent. Dubai’s benchmark stock index this month retreated to
the  lowest since May 2004 .  Can’t Oversell  “Investors are in a wait-and-see mode, but everybody
realizes the potential can be great,” Yasser El-Mallawany,
chief executive officer of EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank, said in an interview in
Davos yesterday. “But today, you can’t oversell something at
this conjunction.”  The lack of progress means the investors who remain are
taking refuge in Qatar, the world’s top exporter of liquefied
natural gas, which is preparing a $88 billion spending plan to
host the 2022 soccer  World Cup  finals, said Oliver Bell, who
helps manage $2.9 billion in Middle East and Africa equities T.
Rowe Price International Inc.  Qatar’s benchmark  QE Index (DSM)  recorded the only gain among
Arab stock markets last year, while its economy is estimated by
the  International Monetary Fund  to have grown 19 percent, the
fastest pace in the world.  Overcoming regional barriers is the “most important
collective action problem that the region has faced since the
fall of the  Ottoman Empire ,” wrote Malik, a lecturer at Oxford
University and Awadallah, the former Jordanian finance minister
who’s now the Secretary General of the Islamic Chamber of
Commerce and Industry.  Regional Rules  In the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, a political and
economic alliance that includes Saudi Arabia, the  United Arab
Emirates , Qatar and  Kuwait , limits on economic integration
include a ban on banks opening more than one branch in another
member country. The alliance, established in 1981, has delayed
plans on customs union until at least 2015. The decision to
locate a proposed regional central bank in  Saudi Arabia  prompted
the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, to pull out of a
planned currency union.  “The GCC may be outperforming the troubled economies of
the West, but it’s lagging many other  emerging markets  at a time
when its wealth and the lift it receives from high commodity
prices suggest that it should be in the vanguard of the emerging
market transformation,” said  Simon Williams , chief economist
for the Middle East and North Africa at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Dubai.  Regional Joblessness  Saudi Arabia needs its non-oil economy to grow at an
average rate of 7.5 percent in the next five years to lower
total joblessness by half to 5 percent, the IMF said in a
September report.  Israel ’s economy, in comparison, grew faster than the rest
of the developed world last year and its  unemployment rate  in
October fell to its lowest level in at least 30 years.  About 27 percent of Saudis between the age of 20 and 30
were unemployed in 2009, official data show. Youth unemployment
in the Middle East was 25 percent in 2010, the highest in the
world, according to the Vienna-based International Labor
Organization.  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah announced a $130 billion
spending plan last year to build homes and combat unemployment
of 10 percent. The program comes amid concerns  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis will hurt global growth.  Compounding structural hurdles in the region have been a
series of setbacks and missteps that have sapped investor
confidence and raised concerns about the ability for the
region’s transition.  IMF Talks  A decision by the Egyptian military, which took interim
power in February, to turn down a $3.2 billion loan from the IMF
has quickened the slump in the central bank’s foreign reserves
to 50 percent in 2011. That helped send borrowing costs to their
highest level since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006
and undermined the currency. Talks on the loan have since
restarted.  Egypt ’s economy grew 0.2 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 5.5 percent in the same period in 2010, government
figures show.  To be sure, not everybody is waiting. Carlyle Group LP, the
Washington-based private-equity firm, said last month it bought
a 42 percent stake in Saudi restaurant operator Alamar Foods.  Abraaj Capital Ltd., the Middle East’s biggest private-
equity company, is in “advanced stages” of investing $20
million in small and medium-sized Egyptian companies and is also
targeting investments in Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Opening  The firm will be “making two or potentially three
investments” in Egypt soon in industries including
“agribusiness and information technology,” Tom Speechley, a
senior partner, said yesterday in a Davos interview.  Investors are also excited about the prospect of Saudi
Arabia, the world’s top oil exporter, opening its stock market
to non-GCC funds, said Simon Kitchen, Cairo-based strategist at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  “As the dust begins to settle from the Arab Spring, I’m
looking to see what action policy makers take, whether they look
to respond with structural reforms that can lift trend growth
rates or they elect to shy away from contentious policy
change,” HSBC’s Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Davos, Switzerland at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  