-- Asian Currencies Gain, Led by Won, After Global Funds Raise Share Holdings
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-01-25T08:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-won-after-global-funds-raise-share-holdings.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by Malaysia’s ringgit, after global funds added to holdings of
regional assets on optimism policy makers will take steps to
boost economic growth.  International investors bought $152 million more shares
than they sold in  Indonesia , Thailand and the Philippines this
week through yesterday, according to exchange data.  India ’s
rupee rose for a third day after the central bank cut lenders’
cash reserve-ratio yesterday. The Philippine peso rose to the
highest level in more than two months after policy makers cut
borrowing costs last week.  “ Asia  has built up plenty of room to provide fiscal
stimulus and to lower  interest rates  in response to a worsening
external environment,” said  Michael Hasenstab , who runs the $57
billion Templeton Global Bond at San Mateo, California-based
Franklin Templeton Investments. “Global liquidity will continue
to flow into Asian markets blessed with strong macro
fundamentals, particularly as the region’s currencies still
appear largely undervalued.”  The ringgit advanced 0.9 percent from Jan. 20 to 3.0775 per
dollar as of 4 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The won rose 0.2 percent from yesterday to
1,125.95 and the peso climbed 0.1 percent to 43.115. Financial
markets in  China ,  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  are closed today for the
Lunar New Year, while Malaysia’s markets were closed in the
first two days of the week.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of  stocks  rose to the highest
level since October before the Federal Open Market Committee
releases forecasts today for benchmark U.S. interest rates for
the first time.  Growth Forecast  The world’s largest economy expanded an annualized 3
percent in the three months through December from a year earlier
after growing 1.8 percent in the previous quarter, according to
the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before Commerce Department data due on Jan. 27.  The won rose to the strongest level since Dec. 7 on
speculation exporters are converting their foreign exchange to
meet month-end cash demand. The South Korean economy expanded
3.5 percent in the three months ended December from a year
earlier, matching the pace in the preceding three months,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey before official data due tomorrow.  “The market is expecting to receive a flurry of exporter
settlements as the month-end nears,” said Hwang Sun Min, a
Seoul-based currency dealer at Kookmin Bank. “The won seems to
be able to sustain its upward momentum as offshore players favor
the local currency over the dollar for now ahead of the  Federal
Reserve ’s meeting.”  Thailand ’s baht dropped 0.2 percent to 31.54 per dollar as
the currency’s advance to near a three-week high attracted
demand from importers. The Bank of Thailand cut its one-day
repurchase  rate  to 3 percent from 3.25 percent today, a move
predicted by all 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
currency fell 0.2 percent to 31.54 per dollar, and touched 31.35
yesterday, the strongest level since Jan. 4.  “There was quite a good volume of trade coming from the
corporate side today and it was quite a good level to buy the
dollar for them,” said Satoshi Ushijima, vice president of
treasury at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Bangkok.  Elsewhere, the  Indian rupee  climbed 0.1 percent to 50.0375
per dollar and the Indonesian rupiah dropped 0.5 percent to
9,038.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ven Ram at  at
 vram1@bloomberg.net  