-- Attachmate Seeks $400 Million in Loans to Fund Dividend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-01-25T17:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/attachmate-seeks-400-million-in-loans-to-fund-dividend-1-.html
Attachmate Corp. (ATTM) , a systems
infrastructure software provider, is seeking $400 million in
loans to fund a dividend to sponsors, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  A $300 million incremental first-lien term loan due in
April 2017 will pay 5.75 percentage points more than the London
interbank bank offered rate, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. Libor, the rate banks
say they can borrow in dollar from each other, will have a 1.5
percent floor.  A $100 million incremental second-lien term loan due
October 2017 will pay 9 percentage points more than Libor with a
1.5 percent minimum on the benchmark, the person said.  Attachmate is proposing to sell both the first and second
portions at 98 cents on the dollar, the person said, reducing
proceeds for the company and boosting the yield to investors.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of
America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co . are arranging the financing
for the Seattle-based company and will host a lender call
tomorrow to discuss the deal, the person said.  The proposed amendment will allow for the incremental term
loans and increase the  interest rate  the company will pay on its
existing $875 million first-lien term loan due in April 2017 to
5.75 percentage points more than Libor from 5 percentage points,
the person said.  Lender Fees  The interest rate on Attachmate’s existing $275 million
second-lien term loan due in October 2017 will also be increased
to 9 percentage points more than Libor from 8 percentage points
with the amendment.  Existing first-lien lenders that vote in favor of the
amendment will be paid a 25 basis-point fee and second-lien
lenders will receive a 50 basis-point fee, the person said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  An investor group led by Golden Gate Capital Corp.,
Francisco Partners and Thoma Bravo acquired Attachmate for an
undisclosed amount in June 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A spokesman for San Francisco-based Golden Gate Capital
declined to comment. Amber Roberts, a spokeswoman for Thoma
Bravo, declined to comment. David Golob, a partner at Francisco
Partners, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  First-lien debt is repaid first in a bankruptcy or
liquidation, second-lien debt is repaid next. In a revolving
credit facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid;
in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  