-- Aussie Rises to 12-Week High Versus Yen on Core Inflation Data; Kiwi Falls
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-01-25T05:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/aussie-rises-to-12-week-high-versus-yen-on-core-inflation-data-kiwi-falls.html
Australia ’s dollar climbed to a 12-
week high against the yen on speculation the nation’s  Reserve
Bank  may have less scope to cut borrowing costs after a measure
of  core inflation  accelerated more than forecast.  The so-called Aussie advanced versus the dollar, trading
0.6 percent from its strongest level in more than two months,
even as headline consumer-price inflation stalled in the quarter
ended in December. New Zealand’s currency slid against all of
its major peers before a central bank meeting tomorrow, with
policy makers predicted to hold the country’s benchmark lending
rate at a record low.  “The inflation pulse in Australia is a little bit firmer
than what the market expected,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “At
the margin, we’ll see it reduce the likelihood of more
aggressive RBA rate cuts. That’s why we’re seeing the Aussie
rally.”  Australia’s dollar climbed 0.5 percent to 81.89 yen at 4:05
p.m. in Sydney after earlier advancing to 82.09, the highest
level since Nov. 1. The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0514. It
strengthened to $1.0573 on Jan. 23, the strongest since Oct. 31.
New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 80.93 U.S. cents. It
was little changed at 63.04 yen.  Australian bonds fell, pushing the yield on benchmark  10-
year  securities up by nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 3.98 percent.  New Zealand ’s  two-year swap rate , a
fixed payment made to receive floating rates, gained four basis
points to 2.86 percent.  Australian Inflation  Consumer prices  were unchanged in the fourth quarter
compared with the previous three-month period, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That was weaker than the 0.2
percent gain that was the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The so-called  trimmed mean , one of the
central bank’s measures of underlying inflation, advanced 0.6
percent, compared with a forecast 0.5 percent increase.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said the nation’s underlying inflation
is “well contained” within the RBA’s target band. He spoke at
a press conference broadcast on  Sky News .  Traders see a 52 percent chance that the RBA will lower its
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points when officials meet
on Feb. 7, cash rate futures indicate. The futures yesterday
signaled a 64 percent chance of a cut. Australia’s  key rate  is
currently at 4.25 percent after back-to-back reductions at the
central bank’s last two meetings.  RBNZ Meeting  New Zealand’s dollar halted a three-day advance as
economists in another Bloomberg poll predict the  Reserve Bank of
New Zealand  will keep  borrowing costs  unchanged at 2.5 percent
before officials meet tomorrow.  “I think they’re going to try and leave rates steady,”
said  Thomas Averill , managing director in Sydney at Rochford
Capital, a currency and  interest-rate  risk-management company.
“There’ll be a little bit of concern that if they cut too early
and if things really do go dire, they haven’t got scope for
further cutting.”  Declines in the so-called kiwi were limited after separate
reports today showed the nation’s manufacturing advanced and
card spending climbed last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  