-- Australian Core Inflation Quickens; Currency Gains as Rate-Cut Bets Pared
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-25T04:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/australian-core-inflation-quickens-currency-gains-as-rate-cut-bets-pared.html
Australia ’s core inflation rate
accelerated above the middle of the central bank’s 2 percent to
3 percent annual target range last quarter, prompting traders to
pare bets on another interest-rate reduction next month.  The annual trimmed mean, which diminishes sharp price
swings, quickened to 2.6 percent from the third quarter, when it
rose a revised 2.4 percent that was faster than previously
reported, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney today. The
overall inflation rate was unchanged last quarter from the prior
three months as the price of bananas plunged 46 percent.  The currency rose as futures traders saw about a 50-50
chance  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
reduce the benchmark rate for a third straight meeting to 4
percent, compared with 21 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News who predict a cut. Stevens lowered borrowing costs in
November and December as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed prospects
for global growth.  “Europe may still push them over the line but the
inflation numbers don’t seem to be a trigger for another back-
to-back cut,” said  Kieran Davies , Sydney-based chief economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and the only one not
predicting a rate increase on Feb. 7. “You saw another revision
to history from the underlying inflation.”  The nation’s currency rose to $1.0514 at 3:47 p.m. in
Sydney compared with $1.0470 immediately before the report. The
so-called Aussie appreciated 5.7 percent last quarter. Traders
are pricing in a 52 percent chance Stevens will cut by a quarter
percentage point, down from 60 percent before the report.  Core Rate  Core inflation measures, which exclude the largest price
increases and declines, showed more price pressure in the second
half of 2011 than economists had previously forecast.  The unchanged main inflation rate last quarter was slower
than the 0.2 percent increase estimated by economists and was
the weakest figure in three years. It gained 3.1 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  The cost of food, which at 16.8 percent is the second-
biggest component in the consumer-price basket, dropped 1.5
percent as supply of fruit benefitted from resumed shipments
from Queensland after floods and storms in the northeastern
state wrecked crops and sent the price of bananas soaring 138
percent in the second quarter.  Health costs declined 1.2 percent as the price of
pharmaceuticals fell 5.6 percent, the report showed.  Housing Gains  In contrast, the costs of housing, which includes rent,
home purchases and utilities, and at 22.3 percent is the biggest
component of the index, gained 0.4 percent last quarter, today’s
report showed.  Apartment rents climbed 5 percent in Australia’s eight
capital cities in November from a year ago, while rents for
houses rose 4.3 percent, according to real estate researcher RP
Data.  Communication increased 1.1 percent, and recreation and
culture gained 0.8 percent, today’s report showed.  The statistics bureau also released a seasonally adjusted
consumer-price index that showed a 0.2 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual increase of 3 percent.  “This tells us that inflation pressures were contained in
the second half of 2011 and it certainly leaves the door open
for the RBA to consider further rate cuts,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former
central bank official.  ‘Sigh of Relief’  “The RBA will probably be breathing a huge sigh of relief
at the moment,” he said. “They had one observation of
inflation in the third quarter, it was surprisingly low, they
moved rates on the back of not feeling concerned about inflation
because of that one observation.”  Australia’s consumer prices are stronger than those in
neighboring commodity exporter  New Zealand , where they dropped
0.3 percent from the third quarter, government data showed last
week.  Australia’s growth is being driven by a surge in investment
by resource companies that are supplying emerging economies
including China and  India  with coal,  iron ore  and natural gas.
Other parts of the economy, including tourism and manufacturing,
are struggling because of the currency’s strength.  The so-called two-speed nature of Australia’s economy was
reflected in the loss of 29,300 jobs in December, capping the
worst year for employment since 1992. Consumer and business
confidence have eased as Europe’s debt crisis deepens.  The RBA has more scope to cut borrowing costs than the
central banks of New Zealand,  Norway ,  Sweden ,  Canada  and the
euro region, where benchmark policy rates range from 1 percent
to 2.5 percent. Rates in  Japan  and the U.S. are near zero.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecast
for global growth and warned that the European debt crisis
threatens to derail the world economy.  The fund, in an update of its World Economic Outlook
report, lowered its estimate for global growth this year to 3.3
percent from a September forecast of 4 percent. The expansion
next year will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent. The euro
area may enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it shrinks 0.5
percent. The U.S. outlook was unchanged at 1.8 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  