-- Australia’s Consumer Prices Stall on Cheaper Bananas as Core Rate Quickens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-25T00:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/australia-s-consumer-prices-stall-on-cheaper-bananas-as-core-rate-quickens.html
Australian  consumer prices  were
unchanged last quarter as banana costs plunged, while a measure 
of  core inflation  that accelerated more than economists forecast
sent the currency higher.  The consumer price index was unchanged from the previous
three months, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney today.
That was weaker than the rise of 0.2 percent  median estimate  in
a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. Prices were 3.1
percent higher than a year earlier, compared with the median
forecast of 3.3 percent. The so-called trimmed mean measure
advanced 0.6 percent, compared with expectations for a 0.5
percent increase.  Twenty-one of 22 economists surveyed predict  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will reduce the 4.25 percent
benchmark rate for a third consecutive policy meeting next
month. The European debt crisis has dimmed prospects for growth
around the world including in  Australia .  The result “could convince RBA officials to delay the next
rate move, despite the weaker domestic data and the troubles
elsewhere, which we believe were a key driver of the twin rate
cuts late last year,”  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief economist in Australia, said in a research report before
today’s release.  The nation’s currency strengthened, buying $1.0509 at 11:42
a.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0470 immediately before the
report. The so-called Aussie appreciated 5.7 percent last
quarter.  Food Costs  Today’s report showed food costs fell 1.5 percent from the
previous quarter, led by a 46 percent drop in the cost of
bananas, the report showed. Health costs declined 1.2 percent as
the price of pharmaceuticals fell 5.6 percent, it showed.  Communication increased 1.1 percent, and recreation and
culture gained 0.8 percent, it showed.  Core inflation measures, which exclude the largest price
increases and declines, were also published today.  The trimmed mean gauge rose 2.6 percent from a year
earlier, the report showed. Economists forecast an annual rise
of 2.4 percent.  The weighted-median gauge of inflation advanced 0.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, for an annual increase of 2.6 percent.
Economists forecast a quarterly rise of 0.5 percent and annual
increase of 2.4 percent.  The statistics bureau also released a seasonally adjusted
 consumer price index  that showed an 0.2 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual increase of 3 percent.  New Zealand consumer prices dropped 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, when they advanced 0.4 percent, government data
showed last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  