-- Roche’s Avastin May Provide Benefit in Early Stage Breast, Studies Find
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/avastin-studies-point-to-benefit-in-early-stage-breast-cancer.html
Two studies of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Avastin show the tumor-fighting drug may help early-stage  breast
cancer  patients, though the results may not show enough of a
benefit to change the way doctors treat the disease.  A U.S. study of 1,206 patients and a German study of 1,948
patients found that adding Avastin to chemotherapy in patients
with breast tumors that haven’t spread to other organs slightly
increased the likelihood of a tumor shrinking to an undetectable
level.  The Food and Drug Administration revoked approval of
Avastin for metastatic breast cancer in November, saying its
benefits didn’t outweigh side effects including high  blood
pressure  and bleeding. Oncologists will probably continue to
follow the ruling because of the possibility of not being
reimbursed, said Charles Vogel, of the  Sylvester Comprehensive
Cancer Center  at  Deerfield Beach , Florida, who reviewed the
studies in an editorial published alongside them today in the
 New England Journal of Medicine .  “Oncologists are not going to go out on a limb thinking
that insurers are not going to pay them,” Vogel said in a
telephone interview.  The findings are “interesting and important,” Roche said
in an e-mailed statement. “Longer follow-up from these studies
is needed before definitive conclusions can be drawn.”  The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker contributed funding
to both studies. Data from a larger trial, dubbed  Beatrice , is
expected this year, Roche said.  Avastin remains approved for colon, lung, kidney and brain
cancer and is approved for breast cancer in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  