-- Bahrain Detains Protesters Using Molotov Cocktails, BNA Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-01-25T14:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/bahrain-detains-protesters-using-molotov-cocktails-bna-says-3-.html
Bahraini authorities detained groups
of protesters for closing several streets nationwide and using
metal rods and Molotov cocktails in confrontations with police,
the state-run  Bahrain  News Agency said today.  Those arrested will be prosecuted, BNA quoted Chief of
Public Security Major-General Tariq al-Hassan as saying. At
least 41 members of the security forces were injured in
yesterday’s clashes, the Information Affairs Authority said in
an e-mailed statement today. It said attackers hurled metal
rods, rocks, bottles and petrol bombs directly at the riot
police.  “The nature of the attacks reflected a serious escalation
in the violent tactics of groups and individuals supporting the
political opposition,” the authority said.  Tensions in the island nation persist almost a year after
the resurgence of protests led by members of the Shiite Muslim
majority demanding a more representative government and greater
rights from the country’s  Sunni Muslim  rulers. Thirty-five
people died between Feb. 14 and April 15, according to the
Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, which investigated
the unrest. Neighboring  Saudi Arabia , also a Sunni monarchy,
sent troops to Bahrain, which hosts the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet,
to help restore order.  Violent Rallies  Protesters took to the streets in several villages
yesterday in response to calls by opposition groups for
unauthorized rallies, dubbed the Bahrain Fist. Recent rallies
have turned violent, with demonstrators throwing Molotov
cocktails and police using tear gas and rubber bullets.  The U.S. State Department has said that embassy employees
who live near an area that has seen an increase in
demonstrations are being relocated to other neighborhoods. The
U.S. Navy is aware of the travel advisory issued by the embassy
and is examining options for personnel living in that area if
needed, Jennifer Stride, a public affairs officer, said in
response to an e-mailed question.  “We continue to monitor the situation and advise our
personnel to avoid areas where protests occur,” she said.  Al-Hassan said yesterday that a request by opposition
groups to hold a protest today in a busy commercial area of the
capital, Manama, had been turned down. Several unauthorized
rallies have been held there recently, resulting in traffic jams
and increased police presence. Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite
group, said in a statement yesterday the opposition would go
ahead with the rally anyway.  Road Closures  About 200 opposition supporters assembled in Manama today,
Hadi al-Mousawi, a senior al-Wefaq member, said in a telephone
interview. “But they couldn’t go ahead with the protest because
security forces closed the roads and used teargas to disperse
the crowds,” he said.  A helicopter circled over the capital and its suburbs in
the afternoon. Traffic on a highway leading to Manama and the
nearby Diplomatic Area, where the  Central Bank  and other
government institutions are located, slowed to a crawl because
of road closures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  