-- Barcelona Ties Real Madrid 2-2 to Reach Semifinals of Spain’s Copa del Rey
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-25T23:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/barcelona-ties-real-madrid-2-2-to-reach-semifinals-of-spain-s-copa-del-rey.html
Barcelona  tied Real  Madrid  2-2 at
home to move to the semifinal of Spanish soccer’s Copa del Rey.  Goals from Pedro and  Dani Alves  late in the first half were
enough to give the hosts a 4-3 victory over the two-match series.
Cristiano Ronaldo and Karim Benzema scored for Real in the
second half. Barcelona won 2-1 in Madrid on Jan. 19.  Real controlled play early in the match, with Barcelona
goalkeeper Jose Manuel Pinto making several saves, and Madrid
forward Mesut Ozil’s 25-yard (22 meter) shot bouncing down off
the crossbar but not going in.  The home side fought back in the last five minutes of the
first half as  Lionel Messi  drew defenders and passed to Pedro to
score. Four minutes later Alves’s shot from just inside the 18-
yard box went into the top of the opposite corner. The ball was
deflected after a free kick given when Lassana Diarra fouled
Messi, which could have been the Madrid player’s second yellow
card.  Real started to press in the second half, with a  Sergio Ramos  headed goal disallowed for a foul. With 30 minutes left,
the visitors put on Jose Callejon and Benzema as substitutes.
Ronaldo scored in the 68th minute and Benzema shot past Pinto
four minutes later.  The visitors, who needed a goal to advance to the semifinal,
continued to challenge until Ramos was sent off in the 89th
minute for an elbow at Barcelona’s Camp Nou.  Real beat European champion Barcelona in last year’s final
of the Copa del Rey, the domestic cup competition. Barcelona
beat its archrival on the way to winning the Champions League
last season, and also won the Spanish league title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 