-- Belarus Unit of Iran’s Bank Tejarat ‘Angered’ at U.S. Sanctions
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-01-25T08:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/belarus-unit-of-iran-s-bank-tejarat-angered-at-u-s-sanctions.html
Trade Capital Bank, the Belarusian
bank controlled by  Iran ’s third-largest lender, said it will not
stop operating after the U.S. designated it as providing
financial services to the Export  Development Bank  of Iran amid
sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation.  “This attitude angers us, because we’re a Belarusian bank,
operating fully within the jurisdiction of the Republic of
Belarus to the standards required by our laws,” Andrei
Veretelnikov, chairman of Trade Capital Bank’s board, said by
phone from Minsk yesterday. “There will be difficulties with
our relations with European and American banks, but the work of
the bank will go on.”  The U.S. Treasury Department on Jan. 23 took steps to cut
off Bank Tejarat from the international financial system for
providing financial services to Iran’s lenders and companies
under international sanctions for involvement in the country’s
nuclear and missile proliferation. The move “will deepen Iran’s
financial isolation,” Treasury Undersecretary for Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence David S. Cohen said in a statement.  European Union foreign ministers on Jan. 23 also agreed to
freeze the assets of Bank Tejarat’s European branch in Paris.  Belarus, which U.S. President  George W. Bush  described as
“the last dictatorship in  Europe ” in 2005, yesterday called
the sanctions against Iran “counterproductive.”  Economic Sanctions  “Methods of economic pressure and coercion are totally
unacceptable,” the foreign ministry said in a statement
yesterday. “The economic sanctions against the Islamic Republic
of Iran have nothing to do with nuclear non-proliferation, and
will only cause harm to the country’s economy and ordinary
people.”  Trade Capital Bank is Belarus’s 12th-largest lender with
about 1.9 trillion Belarusian rubles ($224 million) in assets as
of Oct. 1, according to the central bank’s  records . The lender
had the third-biggest profit growth of Belarus’s banks last
year, the central bank data shows, after net income rose
eightfold to 21.6 billion rubles in the third quarter from 2.6
billion rubles a year earlier. The bank has branches in Tehran
and Kiev as well as Minsk, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  