-- Best Consumer-Stock Gain May End on South Africa Valuations
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T15:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/best-consumer-stock-gain-seen-ending-on-south-africa-valuations.html
The world’s best-performing consumer
stocks have become the lowest-rated by analysts after valuations
of South African retailers and food producers climbed to the
most expensive levels on record.  Five companies in the MSCI South  Africa  Consumer Staples
Index including  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. (MSM)  are rated the  lowest  among peers in 36 countries, according
to more than 3,800 recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauge, which rallied 23 percent in the past six months, may fall
2.3 percent within 12 months, according to share-price estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  While rising food prices helped boost profits and companies
accelerated store openings to meet demand, the rally in South
Africa is outpacing  earnings  prospects as the highest
unemployment rate worldwide curbs spending and regional economic
growth slows, according to Cadiz Asset Management and Investec
Asset Management. The MSCI index rose to 20 times projected
profits last week, the highest on record and the biggest-ever
 premium  to global peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The multiples are quite expensive right now,” said
Warren Buys, an equity analyst at Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset
Management, which oversees about $5.1 billion. “We would be
very cautious about buying businesses on the hope that earnings
might beat expectations.”  The South African consumer-staples index has outperformed
gauges of the stocks in every other developed and emerging
market tracked by MSCI Inc. since mid-July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record High  Shoprite, South Africa’s biggest retailer by market value,
and Massmart, controlled by Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , led the advance as food inflation exceeded 11
percent and the companies both announced plans to boost their
number of stores by about 8 percent in fiscal 2012. Their gains
helped send the  MSCI South Africa Index (MXZA)  to a record high of
871.78 on Jan. 23.  The MSCI South Africa consumer-staples index was down 0.2
percent when South Africa’s stock market closed at 3 p.m. London
time. Shoprite gained 1 percent and Massmart added 0.4 percent.  Investors may be overestimating retailers’ growth
potential, said Diane Laas, an analyst in Cape Town at Investec,
which oversees about $83 billion. South African retail sales
trailed the median forecast in Bloomberg News surveys the past
two months, with growth slowing to 6.8 percent in November from
last year’s high of 10 percent in April.  Slower Spending  The  World Bank  cut its 2012 economic expansion forecast for
South Africa to 3.1 percent from a June estimate of 4.1 percent,
according to a Jan. 17 report. The Washington-based lender also
reduced its forecast for growth in Sub-Saharan Africa to 5.3
percent from 5.7 percent. Shoprite gets about 11 percent of its
revenue outside South Africa, compared with 7.4 percent at
Massmart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook for South Africa’s BBB+
foreign-currency credit grade to negative on Jan. 13, citing
unemployment and a weaker economic expansion than emerging-
market peers.  Spending growth by households will probably slow to 3.3
percent this year from 5 percent in 2011 as gains in real wages
also decelerate, Elna Moolman, an economist at  Renaissance
Capital  in Johannesburg, said in an e-mail. South African
unemployment was 25 percent in the third quarter, the highest of
the 61 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “The earnings growth that will come from Africa will be a
lot more difficult to come by than foreigners are pricing into
these shares,” Investec’s Laas said in a Jan. 10 phone
interview.  Profit Growth  Rising valuations for South African retailers are justified
because they have “stable” earnings that are more resilient
during periods of slowing economic growth than other industries,
said  Andy Brown , who helps manage about $45 billion at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc in  London  and holds South African stocks
including Massmart. Money managers around the world have favored
food  companies  and consumer-staples retailers in the past six
months on concern that the global economy may slow, Brown said.  Earnings in the MSCI South Africa consumer-staples index
may increase 29 percent in the next 12 months, compared with 15
percent growth for the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) , which is
comprised of 10 industries, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are worried at the moment so they would prefer
to hold companies that deliver steady, stable earnings growth,”
Aberdeen’s Brown said.  Sell Ratings  UBS AG’s Darren Cohn is advising investors sell Shoprite
shares even as he forecasts profits will jump 33 percent this
year. While Shoprite plans to expand its  stores  outside  South
Africa  by about 10 percent annually during the next five years,
the stock’s valuation suggests investors are anticipating
“unrealistic” earnings growth, the Johannesburg-based analyst
said in a Jan. 16 research report.  Shoprite, which closed at 129.95 rand in Johannesburg
trading yesterday, may slip to 128.20 in the next 12 months,
according to the average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg this year. The stock has nine  ratings  equivalent to
“sell,” four “hold” and three “buy” recommendations. The
Cape Town-based company is valued at 26 times reported earnings,
near the all-time high of 27 reached on Jan. 4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Huge Premiums’  Massmart was cut to “sell” from “hold” on Jan. 12 by
Nick Higham, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in Johannesburg, who
said the company’s strategy of using “aggressive” discounts to
win market share may curb earnings.  The stock may fall to 159.74 rand in the next 12 months
from 178.46 yesterday, according to the average of nine
analysts’ estimates. The Johannesburg-based company is valued at
41 times profits, a record high and more than double the average
of 20 times for global consumer-staples companies, according to
monthly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth prospects for South African retailers are “more
than adequately reflected” in the share prices, Quinton Ivan,
an analyst at Coronation Fund Managers in  Cape Town , which
oversees about $34 billion, said in an interview. They “trade
at huge premiums,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  