-- Better Place Plans Electric-Car IPO Within 2 Years, Agassi Says
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-25T14:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/better-place-plans-electric-car-ipo-within-2-years-agassi-says.html
Better Place LLC, a U.S. startup
developing charging stations for electric vehicles that started
putting cars on the road this week, expects to go public in the
next two years, Chief Executive Officer Shai Agassi said.  “We’re probably not going to go for another private round
between now and the initial public offering,” Agassi, 43, who
founded the business, said yesterday at Better Place’s test
track and showroom north of Tel Aviv. “We have enough capital
to go all the way until then.”  Better Place, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , has raised
$750 million since it was founded four years ago and is in
partnership with  Renault SA (RNO)  to install electric-car charging
systems in  Israel , Denmark and  Australia . Cars are expected to
start using the company network in Denmark within weeks and
Australia later this year, Agassi said.  The local capital expenses of the roll-outs will be funded
by debt rounds in Israel and Denmark. In Australia, an equity
round is planned to finance the introduction there, Agassi said.  In China, where Better Place opened a visitors’ center in
the southern city of Guangzhou last month, the company may raise
money locally if it starts to expand there as part of its
partnership with China Southern Power Grid Co.  Better Place is building at least 20 roadside switching
stations across  Israel (ILCO) , which enable car owners to exchange
spent batteries within five minutes, much like pulling into a
gas station, Agassi said.  Plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles have the
potential to make up 9 percent of auto sales in 2020, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That could rise to 22 percent
of sales by 2030, or four million vehicles.  Station Roll-out  “The global electric vehicle market is still at a nascent
stage,” U.K. market-research company  Technavio  said in an
August 2011 report. “The biggest challenge that is causing
hindrance to the growth of the global electric vehicle market is
the high price and low performance of electric vehicles as
compared to conventional vehicles.”  As many as 10,000 cars using Better Place stations will be
on Israel and Denmark’s roads by the end of the year, said
Agassi, who skipped his annual trip to the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos this year to oversee the Israeli roll-out.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has made cutting
the nation’s dependence on petroleum one of his government’s
primary goals. Israel’s energy imports are often connected to
the geopolitical situation in the region, seen in multiple
attacks on its  gas pipeline  from Egypt over the past year.  “We buy batteries and sell at the price of oil so it is a
great business to be in between those two elements,” according
to Agassi.  The visitors’ center in Israel has been expanded into a car
retail showroom, where the Renault Fluence ZE model is being
sold from 122,900 shekels ($32,500), including a subscription
for fuel miles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  