-- Bird-Flu Virus Engineered in Wisconsin Lab Isn’t Fatal, Scientist Says
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/bird-flu-virus-engineered-in-wisconsin-lab-isn-t-fatal-scientist-says.html
An airborne strain of avian flu
engineered in  Wisconsin  isn’t lethal and can be blocked with
existing medicines, the study’s lead scientist said.  While the mutated virus was contagious among laboratory
ferrets, it didn’t kill any of them, said  Yoshihiro Kawaoka , a
professor of virology at the  University of Wisconsin  at Madison.
There’s an urgent need for more research on transmissible bird-
flu strains, Kawaoka said in a commentary published online today
in the Journal Nature.  Kawaoka was among scientists who last week  halted  their
experiments for 60 days in response to what the researchers
called a “perceived fear” that mutated forms of the virus may
escape from labs and infect humans. The Wisconsin team, and a
group of scientists in the Netherlands, agreed last month not to
publish certain details of their bird-flu research after a  U.S.
biosecurity panel  asked them to keep it secret for security
reasons.  There is an urgent need “to expand development, production
and distribution” of bird-flu vaccines “and to stockpile
antiviral compounds,” Kawaoka said. Censoring the findings
“will make it harder for legitimate scientists to get this
information while failing to provide a barrier to those who
would do harm.”  The U.S.  National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity 
recommended blocking the publication of certain methods and
genetic mutations used by Kawaoka’s group and the Dutch team led
by Ron Fouchier of Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam.
Fouchier’s team engineered a lethal strain of bird flu that was
contagious among laboratory ferrets.  The advisory panel, formed after the 2001 anthrax attacks,
urged the data be kept secret after determining the risks of
publishing it would outweigh the benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  