-- King’s Stimulus Drive Backed by Policy Makers Saying More QE Is ‘Likely’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-25T10:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/boe-voted-9-0-to-hold-bond-plan-as-some-saw-more-asset-purchases-as-likely.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s drive for more stimulus gained momentum this month with
some policy makers sharing his view that more bond purchases may
be needed when the current round is completed.  “For some members, the risks of undershooting” the
inflation target “meant that a further expansion of asset
purchases was likely to be required,” the central bank said in
the minutes of its Jan. 11-12 meeting published in  London  today.
“But there was no compelling need to increase the scale of the
program before completing those already announced.”  All nine policy makers voted unanimously for no change in
the current 75 billion-pound ($117 billion) stimulus program,
due to finish this month. King said yesterday that slower
inflation gives policy makers room to increase bond purchases to
guard against a “renewed severe downturn.” Data today showed
the U.K. shrank 0.2 percent in the  fourth quarter , more than
economists forecast.  The  Bank of England  held the target for purchases at 275
billion pounds this month and kept its benchmark rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent. The language in the minutes compared
with view among some MPC members in November and December that
more so-called quantitative easing “might well become warranted
in due course.”  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
minutes and the gross-domestic-product data. It traded at
$1.5574 as of 9:58 a.m. in London, down 0.3 percent from
yesterday. The yield on the two-year government bond was little
changed at 0.44 percent.  Considerable Risks  Officials noted “uncertainties” related to the euro-area
debt crisis, the pace of the U.K. recovery in the second half of
2012 and the outlook for inflation.  “There remained considerable risks to the downside from
the global economy,” the Monetary Policy Committee said in the
minutes. Still, “the committee agreed that there had been some
positive developments over the month that had moderated some of
the more serious near-term downside risks.”  The Bank of England noted the impact of the  European
Central Bank ’s three-year loans in December, which it said had
eased the “immediate risk of a more severe dislocation in the
euro area arising from banking-sector difficulties.”
Nevertheless, in the U.K. there was “little to alter the view
that output was likely to be broadly flat” in the fourth
quarter of 2011 and first quarter of 2012.  The MPC also said there had been a “sequence of slightly
stronger data from the rest of the world, including the U.S.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  concludes a two-day
policy meeting today and will release a statement at 12:30 p.m.
in  Washington . The central bank will also publish forecasts from
FOMC participants for the main interest rate, and Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  plans to hold a press conference at 2:15 p.m.  Inflation Cooling  King said in a speech yesterday that with inflation easing
and wage growth “subdued,” there is “scope for  interest rates 
to remain low, and, if necessary, for further asset purchases,
to prevent  inflation  falling below the 2 percent target.”  U.K. consumer-price growth slowed to 4.2 percent last month
and the MPC forecasts that it will cool “sharply” in the
coming months. The longer-term outlook for price growth is more
uncertain, it said.  Some policy makers said the risks to inflation were “more
finely balanced and it was less clear that inflation would fall
below” the goal in the medium term. The central bank noted
upside inflation risks from tensions in the  Middle East , which
may stoke commodity prices, as well as companies seeking to
increase margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  