-- Boeing Financing May Get Government Boost Before Costs Rise
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-25T17:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/boeing-financing-may-get-government-boost-before-costs-rise.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  commercial aircraft
financing may get more government backing in 2012 than last year
as airlines rush to take advantage of funding costs that will
rise in 2013, a senior executive said.  Kostya Zolotusky, managing director for leasing and capital
markets at the Chicago-based company’s Boeing Capital Corp.,
said revised rules on the cost of getting loans backed by U.S.
guarantees will go into effect in 2013, after the 2011
renegotiation of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s agreement on export credits for civil aircraft.  Boeing’s airliner deliveries should climb to 585 to 600 in
2012 from 477 last year, the company said today as it reported
earnings. That should help Boeing in a bid to reclaim the top
spot in commercial-jet production lost to  Airbus (EAD)  SAS in 2003.
Airbus has said it will deliver about 570 planes this year.  The role of export financing in aircraft sales has
ballooned since late 2008 after the global credit crunch curbed
banks’ willingness to lend. Government guarantees backed 34
percent of aircraft purchases in 2009, more than double the
percentage in 2008. The Export-Import Bank of the U.S. provided
guarantees for about 29 percent of plane purchases last year,
Zolotusky said.  Export-Import participation will stay at a high level this
year because markets are “undergoing significant realignment,
and when this realignment occurs, help is needed,” Zolotusky
said in an interview in Dublin today. “The other big driver is
that 2012 is the last year that pricing on Ex-Im credit will be
attractive.”  New Rules  In 2013, credit for plane purchases shifts to a new
“Aircraft Sector Understanding” rule that will make it more
expensive and “reduce demand by airlines to use Ex-Im credit,”
he said. The executive declined to say whether deliveries might
be expected to ease in 2013.  “This year’s deliveries and next year’s deliveries are
locked in,” he said. “I think everything is pre-planned, and
we’re executing our plan.”  While U.S. carriers have tapped  capital markets  to borrow
money to buy planes in recent years, non-U.S. airlines have done
so sparingly, and only when backed by government guarantees.
Otherwise, lenders lacked the protection of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , which allows creditors to take back planes if financing
payments aren’t current. A global agreement known as the Cape
Town Treaty, which Boeing pushed for, will help protect
creditors in the future and may help facilitate capital-market
financing outside the U.S., Zolotusky said.  Boeing is boosting output by more than 60 percent in four
years through 2014 to meet demand for more fuel-efficient
planes. Sales in 2012 may be $78 billion to $80 billion, the
manufacturer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net  