-- BP Says Shah Deniz to Stay Exempt From Iran Sanctions
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-01-26T09:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/bp-says-shah-deniz-gas-field-to-stay-exempt-from-iran-sanctions.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to fix Nabucco date in
third paragraph.)  BP Plc (BP/)  believes its Shah Deniz
natural-gas field off the coast of  Azerbaijan  will remain
exempted from U.S. and European Union sanctions on Iran.  “We are confident at the moment that we will not be
captured by any change or escalation in the sanctions process,”
Steve Garlick, a marketing manager for BP on Shah Deniz, said at
the Energy Exchange’s European Gas Conference 2012 in Vienna
today.  Tehran-based Naftiran Intertrade Co. has a 10 percent stake
in Azerbaijan’s biggest gas field that may help supply fuel to
the 7.9 billion-euro ($10.9 billion) planned Nabucco link and
bring gas to  Europe  via Turkey from 2017.  The European Union will ban Iranian oil imports from July
and freeze assets of the central bank and eight other entities.
The U.S. has also imposed restrictions on financial transactions
with  Iran  and its officials are touring the world to boost
support for the measures. Iran was already under four sets of
United Nations Security Council sanctions.  “Obviously the situation is being monitored and we are
actively involved with various political bodies and lobbyists
and attempting to understand exactly what does this legislation
mean for Shah Deniz,” Garlick said. “There is at the moment an
exemption, whether that exemption actually holds remains to be
seen,” he said adding that “big projects like this are all
about risk and about managing risk and the Iranian sanctions are
a risk that we are having to manage.”  BP and  Statoil ASA (STL)  each own stakes of 25.5 percent in Shah
Deniz. Other partners with 10 percent stakes are State Oil Co.
of Azerbaijan, OAO  Lukoil (LKOH) , Naftiran Intertrade Co. and Total.
Turkiye Petrolleri AO owns 9 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  