-- Brazil Real Falls Second Day as ECB Opposes Greek Debt Losses
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-01-25T14:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/brazil-real-falls-second-day-as-ecb-opposes-greek-debt-losses.html
Brazil ’s real fell for a second day
as speculation that the European Central Bank remains opposed to
taking losses on its Greek bond holdings raised concern that
solutions to the debt crisis in the region will be delayed.  The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7615 per U.S. dollar at
12:07 p.m. in Rio de Janeiro, from 1.7585 yesterday. Trading at
the BM&FBovespa exchange, Latin America’s largest securities
exchange, is closed for a holiday in  Sao Paulo .  The ECB is concerned that joining private-sector investors
in taking losses on Greek debt will damage confidence in the
institution, according to two people familiar with the Governing
Council’s stance. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters on Jan. 23 that the government will make room for a
more “flexible” monetary policy to support the economy,
fueling speculation lower  interest rates  will reduce the allure
of the country’s currency.  “Global markets continue to bleed, pushing Latin American
currencies to once again open the trading session in negative
territory,”  Eduardo Suarez , a senior currency strategist at
Scotia Capital Inc. wrote in a note today. While a stock market
rally attracts foreign capital to Brazil, the interest rate
outlook “looks unsupportive” for the real, he wrote.  The government will rely on credit expansion, lower
borrowing costs, an increase in public investment, policies to
prevent the currency from appreciating and a responsible fiscal
stance to shore up economic growth amid  Europe ’s debt crisis,
Mantega said this week.  Brazil’s central bank is scheduled to release the minutes
of its Jan. 17-18 policy meeting tomorrow. The central bank has
cut its benchmark interest rate 2 percentage points since August
to 10.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  