-- Bristol-Myers Warning Ignored on Steroid Shots Tied to Deaths
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/bristol-myers-warning-ignored-on-steroid-shots-tied-to-deaths.html
Doctors are still injecting a
steroid made by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  in a way the company
warns they shouldn’t, following reports that patients have died
or become paralyzed after receiving steroidal shots.  Bristol-Myers changed the label on its steroid Kenalog seven
months ago to say that it’s “not recommended” for injection
into the epidural space near the spine because of “reports of
serious medical events, including death,” associated with
administering steroids in that fashion. The label doesn’t
specify if Kenalog patients died and a spokesman for the company
declined to comment.  Used for neck and back pain, Kenalog and the  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
drug Depo-Medrol are the most frequently administered steroids
in epidural injections. Over eight million such shots were given
in the U.S. in 2010.  Physicians are either ignoring the Bristol-Myers warning or
aren’t aware of it, according to doctors who use Kenalog or who
work with others who do. “It is still being given in
abundance,” said Christopher Gharibo, head of pain medicine in
the anesthesiology department at NYU-Hospital for Joint Diseases
in  New York .  Neither Bristol-Myers nor the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration publicized the revision, even though the FDA is
reviewing the safety of epidural steroid shots. While not
required to alert doctors or patients, the FDA has broadcast
changes to other drugs’ prescribing information. In June, around
the time the Kenalog label was rewritten, it issued a press
release about a muscle injury risks warning that Merck & Co.
applied to its Zocor cholesterol pill.  ‘A Better Way’  The FDA should notify physicians in every case of a new
caution and require companies to make changes to labels stand
out, said Curt Furberg, an epidemiologist at the Wake Forest
School of Medicine in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina .  “I think they are irresponsible,” he said of the FDA.  Charles Bennett, a medication safety expert at the South
Carolina College of Pharmacy in Charleston, said it’s the FDA’s
duty to be more aggressive because most physicians “don’t even
look at the label” on a drug they’ve used for years.  “There has to be a better way of making sure doctors know
about very serious side effects of drugs,” he said.  Morgan Liscinsky, a spokesman for the agency, said
decisions about taking steps such as issuing press releases are
made on a “case by case basis.” She said a notice about the
label change was e-mailed to 200,000 people who have signed up
to receive agency safety alerts.  Reviewing Data  “The FDA acknowledges that communicating risk is
challenging, and the agency remains committed to improving the
capacity to provide the public with timely, accurate, evidenced-
based safety information,” she said.  Bristol-Myers added the Kenalog warning after reviewing
“post-marketing safety data,” said Ken Dominski, a spokesman
for the New York-based company, in an e-mail. He said the
company wouldn’t provide additional information.  The FDA -- which approves the prescribing information that
companies write for their drugs -- declined to provide the data.
Liscinsky said it would only be released through a Freedom of
Information Act request, which can take months to process.
Bloomberg filed one Jan. 13.  Manufacturers sometimes alert doctors to safety updates,
which Bristol-Myers Squibb has done in the past with other
drugs. Dominski didn’t explain why that wasn’t done with
Kenalog.  Primary Suspects  The use of epidural steroid injections is booming, thanks
to an aging population and generous reimbursement by insurers.
The shots can calm inflamed nerves and are popular for easing
pain in hips, knees and others parts of the body.  The FDA is conducting what Liscinsky called a “multi-
faceted” review of epidural steroid shots and reports of
serious complications. One focus is injections made with a
transforaminal approach, which brings the needle within
millimeters of critical arteries. Outside experts working with
the agency on the review say they are also concerned about the
use of so-called particulate steroids like Kenalog and Depo-
Medrol, which may create blockages that could trigger strokes if
accidentally shot into arteries.  Since 2004, epidural steroids have been cited as the
primary suspect in serious complications suffered by 198
patients, according to an evaluation of FDA data performed for
Bloomberg by  AdverseEvents Inc. , a company in Healdsburg,
 California , that analyzes drug safety reports and sells the
results to drug makers, insurers and financial institutions.  ‘Life-Threatening Events’  Depo-Medrol and generic versions were cited most often, in
90 of the cases, including in those of three people who died.
Kenalog and generic equivalents were named as the main suspects
in 88 cases. Three other steroids comprised the remaining 20
cases of serious complications.  In all, 52 of the patients were hospitalized, 30 suffered
disabilities from their complications and 10 were listed as
having “life-threatening events.” Bristol-Myers and Pfizer
declined to comment on those numbers.  Other research into the injections has uncovered incidents
of death or serious complications following pain shots. A survey
of physicians reported in the journal Spine in 2007 found 78
cases where patients who got epidural steroids shots in the neck
-- known as the cervical area of the upper spine -- suffered
serious injuries; there were 13 deaths, all following injections
of methylprednisolone, a steroid that includes Depo-Medrol and
generic versions of the drug.  Little Reporting  In a separate review of case studies in medical journals,
Mark Wallace, the author of the physicians’ survey, also found
two cases in which patients died after epidural injections with
the steroid triamcinolone, which is found in Kenalog. Wallace is
chairman of the pain-medicine division for the  University of
California  at  San Diego ’s health system.  The FDA posted a notice on its website in May 2010 that it
has identified a “potential safety issue” with the class of
steroids that includes Kenalog and Depo-Medrol, based on its own
analysis of reports it’s received about complications. The FDA’s
noting that there might be a risk doesn’t mean the agency has
discovered a direct causal relationship, according to the site.  While manufacturers are supposed to tell the FDA about any
adverse events they learn of, doctors and other health
professionals are under no such obligation. Only 1 to 10 percent
of drug-related complications are reported to the FDA, according
to government estimates.  Kenalog Sales  U.S. sales of steroids used in epidural shots were $350
million in the first 11 months of 2011, according to IMS Health,
a Danbury, Connecticut data firm, which said sales of Kenalog
for all uses were 52 percent higher than those of Depo-Medrol.
Kenalog sales were $112.3 million in those 11 months, compared
to $113.2 million for full year 2010, IMS Health numbers show.
Bristol-Myers wouldn’t disclose its sales of Kenalog for
epidural use alone.  Depo-Medrol’s label doesn’t include a warning about
epidural use. Pfizer spokeswoman Joan Campion said in an e-mail
that epidural use of the steroid isn’t approved by the FDA and
that “physicians should not administer the product” that way.
As for why its competitor added a warning and Pfizer hasn’t, she
said that while the two drugs are in the same class of products
they are not the same product.  Generic drug makers must update their labels to reflect
changes made to the brand-name version, according to the FDA.  ‘No Absolute Safety’  No steroids are specifically approved for epidural
injections and the drug makers haven’t on their labels
recommended they be used that way. Doctors may administer them
that way if they believe it’s medically beneficial, in what is
called off-label use, even if a manufacturer’s prescribing
information cautions against it.  At NYU-Hospital for Joint Diseases, Gharibo said he uses
Kenalog because it’s effective and severe complications from
epidural shots are rare, estimating the risk at one in 100,000.  “In injections, there is no absolute safety,” he said,
adding that other steroids have comparable risks to Kenalog.  Richard Rosenquist, chairman of the pain management
department at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio , said doctors there
use Kenalog epidural shots to treat neck and back pain because
it works well. He added that he would have no reason to look at
the label of a drug he’s been using “in a safe and efficacious
fashion” for years.  “I am unlikely to go back and spend time reading the
package insert unless I have been made aware of a change,”
Rosenquist said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  