-- California Lawmakers Sue Controller Chiang for Withholding Their Paychecks
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/california-lawmakers-sue-controller-for-withholding-pay-in-budget-dispute.html
California (STOCA1) ’s legislative leaders
sued state Controller John Chiang, saying he overstepped his
constitutional authority when he withheld their pay last year
after they passed a budget he said wasn’t legally balanced.  State Assembly Speaker John Perez and Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg challenged the ability of Chiang, the
elected controller, to impose his judgment on whether a budget
is balanced under a 2010 law that strips lawmakers of pay when
they miss a June 15 deadline for passing a budget. All three are
Democrats.  Chiang on June 21 docked the pay of the entire legislature,
concluding that the $86.6 billion general-fund spending plan
they had passed six days earlier was incomplete and built on
faulty assumptions. He said he was acting under Proposition 25,
which also reduced the amount of votes needed to pass a budget
to a simple majority.  “It is the legislature’s job to determine expenditures and
revenues,” Steinberg told reporters in  Sacramento  today. “It’s
our job.”  Steinberg and Perez said the lawsuit, filed in Sacramento
County Superior Court, doesn’t seek to recoup pay lost between
June 15 and the passage of the final budget almost two weeks
later. Rather, it asks the court to rule that Chiang doesn’t
have the authority to declare a budget balanced.  Democrats passed a spending plan by their constitutional
deadline of June 15 after Republicans blocked a proposal by
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  to raise taxes. Brown vetoed the
budget and a compromise was passed by Democrats before the start
of the fiscal year July 1.  ‘Most Important Point’  “The most important point here is to enforce the voters’
will to identify whether there is a balanced budget,” Chiang
said in an interview at a pension-fund board meeting in
Monterey,  California . “That’s ultimately the key question. We
believe we are correct but we are fine with having the courts
decide.”  Brown has proposed a plan that counts on almost $7 billion
in higher income and sales tax revenue he wants voters to
approve in November. The budget includes a “trigger” that
would cut about $5 billion from schools if voters reject the
taxes.  “This is not the beginning of a battle with the governor
and the controller,” Steinberg told reporters in the
statehouse. “This case will proceed quietly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net .
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net . 