-- Bank Foreclosure Deal ‘Inadequate,’ Says California’s Harris
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-25T22:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/california-attorney-general-has-doubts-about-mortgage-deal.html
A proposed multistate settlement
with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other
U.S. mortgage servicers to resolve probes of foreclosure
practices is “inadequate for  California ,” state Attorney
General Kamala Harris’s office said.  The attorney general reviewed the latest settlement
proposal from the banks, which include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY1) , said Shum Preston, a Harris
spokesman, in an e-mailed statement today.  “Our state been clear about what any multistate settlement
must contain: transparency, relief going to the most distressed
homeowners, and meaningful enforcement that ensures
accountability,” Preston said in the statement. “At this
point, this deal does not suffice for California.”  The proposed accord would set requirements for how lenders
conduct home foreclosures and would also require the banks to
fund loan principal writedowns for homeowners and provide
refinancings, said a person familiar with the matter who didn’t
want to be identified because the terms aren’t public.  Without California’s participation, the nationwide deal
with the five banks will be worth about $19 billion, instead of
$25 billion if the most populous state joins, the person said.  Liability Releases  Harris, a Democrat who took office in January 2011, had
previously raised concerns about the scope of the liability
releases in any deal. She said any agreement shouldn’t include
releases for conduct that hadn’t been fully investigated.  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced an
investigation into foreclosure practices more than a year ago
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seizing homes. The proposed agreement was reached with a group
of state attorneys general and federal agencies, including the
 Justice Department .  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , a Democrat, announced
Jan. 23 that he wouldn’t join the multistate agreement as
drafted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  