-- Cameron Proposes New Rules for European Human-Rights Court
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-25T16:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/cameron-to-propose-new-rules-to-limit-cases-at-european-human-rights-court.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
proposed changes to the  European Court of Human Rights  so that
the body focuses on major cases and interferes less with
national governments.  The U.K. is one of 47 countries that allows the Strasbourg,
France-based court to make the final decisions on domestic
human-rights issues. Some of its rulings have angered Cameron
and his  Conservative Party  for what they see as overreaching
interference in Britain’s internal affairs. A 2005 order that
prisoners should be allowed to vote was a focus of anger, with
U.K. lawmakers rejecting such a move last year.  The U.K. took the presidency of the  Council of Europe ,
which oversees the court, this year, and Cameron used a speech
today in Strasbourg to push for an overhaul. He pointed out that
with more than 150,000 cases currently pending, the court isn’t
functioning as intended.  “The court should be free to deal with the most serious
violations of human rights; it should not be swamped with an
endless backlog of cases,” Cameron told the Council of  Europe ’s
Parliamentary Assembly. “The court should ensure that the right
to individual petition counts; it should not act as a small-
claims court. And the court should hold us all to account; it
should not undermine its own reputation by going over national
decisions where it does not need to.”  Any changes to the way the court works would require the
agreement of all 47 countries.  Cameron’s office said that between 1959 and 2010, 97
percent of U.K.-related applications to the court had ended up
being rejected. The prime minister is seeking to make that
happen more speedily. On Nov. 30, there were 3,650 pending cases
relating to the U.K., putting it in 10th place. Russia was in
first place, with 40,850 cases.  “We have seen a massive inflation in the number of
cases,” Cameron said. “In the first 40 years of its existence,
45,000 cases were presented to the court. In 2010 alone, 61,300
applications were presented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 