-- Canadian Currency Advances to Strongest Since October After Fed Statement
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-25T22:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/canada-s-currency-drops-as-risk-aversion-clips-equities-crude-oil-prices.html
Canada ’s dollar gained to the
strongest in almost three months after U.S. policy makers said
their key interest rate will stay at almost zero until at least
late 2014, boosting the attraction of Canada’s 1 percent rate.  The currency fell earlier as speculation that  Europe  may be
unable to contain its sovereign-debt crisis damped demand for
riskier assets. Commodities including crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, climbed after the  Federal Reserve ’s statement.  “The market is buying the Canadian dollar, as it has a
long-standing correlation with commodities, which have taken off
on the back of these lower interest rates,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada
in Toronto. “It’s more of a knee-jerk reaction to the extension
of the accommodative policy.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0043 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It was the
strongest level on a closing basis since Oct. 31. The currency
earlier dropped as much as 0.6 percent. One Canadian dollar
purchases 99.57 U.S. cents.  The U.S. dollar fell versus 14 of its 16 most-traded peers.  Crude oil for March delivery gained 0.5 percent to $99.74 a
barrel in New York, after falling earlier as much as 1.7 percent
and rising 1.2 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY) 
of raw materials advanced 0.5 percent. Canada derives about half
of its export revenue from the sale of raw materials, including
crude. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.9 percent.  Bonds Rise  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing benchmark  10-year
note  yields down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.04 percent. It was the yields’ first decline in six days.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has kept its  benchmark
rate  at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in
an effort to support the economy. Inflation remains tame and
more than two years of economic growth have failed to push
unemployment below 8.5 percent.  “The committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative
stance for monetary policy,” the FOMC said in a statement
released in  Washington  today after a two-day policy meeting.
“Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking at a news
conference, said the option of further large-scale bond
purchases is still “on the table.” The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing.  End of 2014  Nine of 17 Fed officials expect borrowing costs will remain
below 1 percent at the end of 2014, with six officials expecting
zero rates to remain into 2015. The projections by FOMC members
were released today for the first time. An increase in 2014
would mark the first rise in the fed funds rate since June 2006.  “The market seems to think the low rates will be somewhat
stimulative, but I think it’s a bit troubling the Fed didn’t
acknowledge that the economy is improving,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal.  The  Bank of Canada  held its overnight rate target at 1
percent last week. Bond investors are abandoning bets Canadian
policy makers will cut  interest rates  this year as rising
consumer debt means the central bank is less likely to ease,
even as authorities from  India  to  Israel  to  Brazil  add stimulus.  Odds Fall  The odds the Bank of Canada will lower its policy interest
rate by September have fallen to less than 30 percent from more
than 50 percent on Jan. 16, before a policy-maker decision to
keep the rate unchanged, according to Bloomberg News
calculations based on overnight index swap data. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey with 21 responses predict the Bank of Canada
will lift borrowing costs by the first quarter of 2013.  “The Bank of Canada has also been highly accommodative,
and has a commitment to hold rates lower,” National Bank’s
Spitz said. “Does that mean they are going to hold steady until
2014? I don’t think so.”  Mark Carney , governor of the Bank of Canada, has maintained
a 1 percent  interest rate  since September 2010. It is the
longest pause since the Bank adopted the overnight policy rate
in 1994. Carney raised the rate in 2010 from 0.25 percent after
cutting it to that level to support the economy during the
financial crisis.  Bond Auction  Canada sold C$3 billion ($2.96 billion) of three-year notes
today, drawing an average yield of 1.159 percent, the central
bank said on its website. The 1 percent securities mature in
February 2015.  The auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount sold, was 2.41 percent.
The  previous sale  of three-year debt on Dec. 14 fetched an
average yield of 1.023 percent and had a coverage ratio of 2.53.
The average ratio over the past five offerings of three-year
securities is 2.46.  The loonie sank 0.2 percent over the past week against nine
developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar dropped 0.9
percent, while the euro gained 0.3 percent.  The Canadian currency fell earlier after the  European
Central Bank  was said to oppose restructuring its Greek bonds,
while the  International Monetary Fund  said European governments
may have to boost Greek support. The region’s sovereign-debt
crisis began in  Greece  more than two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  