-- Capitalism Seen in Crisis by Investors Citing Inequalities
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-25T09:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/capitalism-seen-in-crisis-by-investors.html
International investors say
capitalism is in crisis, with almost one in three backing
radical changes to the system, according to a Bloomberg survey.  As the global financial and business elite gather in Davos
for their annual forum, a majority in the Bloomberg Global Poll
agree that  income inequality  hurts the economy and that
governments need to do something to address it -- ideas at the
heart of “Occupy” protests worldwide. Those surveyed also
voice reservations about the financial industry’s role in
society, with seven in 10 seeing at least some truth in the
argument that banks have too much power over governments.  “Capitalism is in crisis because there is a huge and
growing disparity in income/wealth distribution in Western
economies, and an equally divisive generational disparity,”
poll participant Michael Derks, chief strategist for FXPro
Financial Services broker in  London , said in an e-mail.  “It requires government intervention on an enormous scale,
because an economy cannot survive if it does not invest in the
younger generation,” Derks said.  More than 70 percent of those polled believe the system is
in trouble, with 32 percent saying it needs a “radical
reworking of the rules and regulations.” The other 39 percent
think the turbulence will ebb on its own, according to the
quarterly poll conducted Jan. 23-24 of 1,209 investors, analysts
and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers. Fewer than one in
four say free enterprise is working as it should.  Seventy percent of those surveyed say  Europe ’s economic
troubles will cause social instability in 2012, including riots
or other unrest.  Role for Government  The 459 U.S. investors who answered the survey view
capitalism more favorably than their counterparts elsewhere,
with roughly one in five saying the system needs an overhaul,
according to the poll.  U.S. participants are also more wary of government action
to tackle income disparities. Half say such official
intervention would be inappropriate. More than three of four
European investors and more than four in five Asians see a role
for government in dealing with the issue.  The future of free enterprise was discussed today at the
start of the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting. The opening
panel featured  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein ,
Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan and
Sharan Burrow, general secretary of the International Trade
Union Confederation.  Rubenstein said the Chinese-style “state capitalism” model
“will prevail” if the U.S. and Western European economies don’t 
fix their debt problems.  Message Resonating  As 2,600 delegates meet in the ski resort’s conference
center, young Swiss Socialists are erecting igloos under the
banner of “OccupyWEF,” which draws its inspiration from last
year’s “Occupy Wall Street” protests against the financial
industry and the concentration of wealth in the top one percent
of the society.  Their message is resonating with global investors,
according to the results of the poll. More than half of
respondents say that income inequality hampers economic growth.
Some two-thirds think it is appropriate for governments to
pursue policies to tackle the issue, although a plurality -- 48
percent -- says it can be addressed over time. Fewer than one in
five back urgent action to deal with the gap.  “There is a large and growing wealth disparity and I think
it is unhealthy,” Steve Morton, a director at Natixis
Securities in  New York  who took part in the survey, said in an
e-mail. “The lower levels of the pyramid don’t have enough
money to buy things and keep the economy going.”  Criticizing Banks  The financial industry also comes in for criticism in the
quarterly poll. About two-thirds see at least some truth in the
argument that bankers’ actions are driven by greed and harm the
economy. More than four in five voice some sympathy for the
contention that top bankers get large bonuses even when their
firms don’t do well. And only 14 percent completely disagree
with the statement that banks need to be regulated so that
they’re not too big to fail.  “There’s too much power, it’s time to reset,” Burrow said
at the Davos panel. “If you’ve got a group that is too big to
fail, what it means is that you are the biggest bullies on the
planet. The financial sector has lost its moral compass.”  Growing Gap  “The banking culture has evolved radically, to the point
where the perception amongst most members of society is that
their actions are driven by the relentless pursuit of earnings
with no regard to their potential negative impact on
communities,” said Anson Rosewall, a poll participant and sales
trader at BBY Ltd., a financial services firm in Sydney,
 Australia .  “The fact that banks have taken government cash, while the
average person has lost his job and house without help, will
probably forever tarnish the reputation of these major
institutions,” he said in an e-mail.  The gap between rich and poor is widening across most
developed economies as executives, bankers and skilled workers
reap more rewards, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said last month.  The average income of the richest tenth of the population
is now about nine times that of the poorest tenth, the Paris-
based OECD said. The gap has increased about 10 percent since
the mid-1980s with  Mexico , the U.S.,  Israel  and the U.K. among
the countries with the biggest divide between rich and poor.  Tax Debate  President  Barack Obama  has signaled that he intends to
highlight the issue in his re-election campaign by repeatedly
calling for legislation to ensure that people with incomes of
more than $1 million a year pay at least the same percentage in
taxes as middle-class households.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  earned $21.6
million in 2010 and paid 13.9 percent of that amount in income
taxes, using the preferential rate on investment income and
charitable contributions to pay a smaller share of his earnings
than top wage earners typically do, according to tax returns
released by the former Massachusetts governor yesterday.  U.S. investors are not convinced that income inequality is
a threat to the economy: a majority of those surveyed say it
does not hinder growth. More than 50 percent of Europeans and 60
percent of Asians think otherwise.  Skeptical of Regulation  Poll respondents from America are also less enthusiastic
about bank regulation. Only about one in three U.S. investors
are completely convinced that banks are in need of regulation to
prevent them from being too big to fail. Majorities of investors
in Europe and  Asia  are sold on that idea.  The poll’s overall results aren’t completely negative for
the financial industry. Only about a quarter of investors
completely disagree with the argument that banks do a good job
routing capital to businesses that have the best chance of
creating jobs.  More than three in four also voice at least some support
for the statement that strong bank profits are good for the
economy because financial institutions will have more money to
lend to consumers and companies.  Structural changes, in particular new capital requirements
and regulation, are holding banking profits down, according to
roughly three-quarters of those surveyed. Only about a quarter
blame the lower profits on a temporary slowdown in the economy
and financial markets.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 