-- Davos Dealmakers Defy Doubters by Discussing Takeovers
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-26T17:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ceos-in-davos-discuss-acquisitions-amid-gloomy-forecast-from-imf.html
The chief executive officers of some
of  Europe ’s richest companies, gathering at this week’s World
Economic Forum amid a flood of negative economic  forecasts , have
a message for doubters: don’t count us out.  The heads of  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , who are scheduled to attend the meeting of executives
and politicians in Davos, Switzerland, are starting 2012 with
the resources for dealmaking: strong cash piles, robust balance
sheets and emerging-market operations that are blunting the
impact of slowing profits at home.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s $5.7
billion hostile bid for Illumina Inc. this week shows European
CEOs are already stepping up deals as the debt crisis lingers.  “What’s happening in the markets is not perfectly aligned
with the confidence CEOs are expressing in doing deals because
they’re armed with strong balance sheets and lots of cash,”
said Pip McCrostie, who oversees Ernst & Young’s mergers and
acquisitions practice as global vice chair of transactions, and
is attending the forum. “Europe has large corporations that are
among the strongest and most diversified. The broader question
for them will be whether there is a way to grow and use M&A to
do that.”  Cash Piles  The biggest European companies by market value have cash
reserves of $1.54 billion on average, 23 percent more than in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $100
billion in divestments by European companies last year helped
the largest nonfinancial members of the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
the region’s benchmark, boost their average profit margin to
12.6 percent, compared with 11.1 percent in 2006, in the midst
of the last economic boom.  One measure of investor confidence in future profits,
price-to-earnings ratios, shows European companies are faring
just as well as their U.S. peers. The largest companies in the
Stoxx 600, including Shell and Novartis AG, have an average
ratio of 18.2, compared with the 15.7 average of their U.S.
counterparts, according to Bloomberg data.  Business leaders and policy makers are gathering in Davos
after the World Bank cut its global growth forecast this month
by the most in three years, saying that a recession in the euro
region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in emerging markets.
Economists predict that the euro area will contract by 0.4
percent this year after 1.5 percent growth in real gross
domestic product last year, estimates show.  Placing Bets  “When you are a global player, you need to put bets on
many markets, and also have a geographic strategy to manage the
risk of a slowdown in any one place,” said Maurice Levy, CEO of
Publicis SA, the world’s third-largest advertising company,
which gets about a third of its revenue from Europe. “We are
all looking at the difference in growth rates between places
like Europe and the emerging markets.”  While European companies slowed the pace of dealmaking last
year as the debt crisis roiled markets, many haven’t been shy
about setting ambitious plans.  Siemens AG (SIE) , which still gets 50
percent of its revenue in Europe, has about 16 billion euros
($20.8 billion) in cash and short-term investments, and is on
the hunt for takeovers after a 27 percent drop in fiscal first-
quarter profit. Nestle, led by CEO  Paul Bulcke , is armed with
about $8 billion in  cash , and set a goal of obtaining 45 percent
of revenue from developing countries by 2020, compared with
about a third now.  “There is greater uncertainty and greater speed of
movement because companies are anxious about where to invest in
new growth markets,” said Chris Zook, a partner and co-head of
the global strategy practice at Bain & Co., who is attending
Davos. “The companies that are strongest in their industries
will consider acquisitions. The cash is piling up.”  Davos Dealmaking  Davos, where Levy, Bulcke and more than 500 CEOs will be
gathering, has proven ripe for dealmaking in the past. At least
two significant takeovers by European companies were partly
negotiated at the 2011 forum. Sanofi CEO  Chris Viehbacher  and
Genzyme Corp.’s Henri Termeer moved closer to cementing the
Paris-based company’s offer for the U.S drugmaker, agreeing to a
$20.1 billion deal the following month.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and
NYSE Euronext CEOs also met to discuss the German exchange’s
planned $7 billion takeover of NYSE.  While European leaders have rallied to keep the debt crisis
under control, some large companies have felt the pinch.  Daimler
AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes cars, in October reported its first
quarterly profit decline since 2009. In the same month,  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN) , the largest maker of power-transmission gear, reported its
smallest profit increase in a year, and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  blamed
slow growth in its domestic market for a profit drop.  Earnings Abroad  Still, many European companies are benefiting from years of
purchases in developing economies, which reduced dependence on
their home markets. Takeovers by European acquirers in  Latin
America , Africa, the Middle East and emerging Asian countries
totaled $323 billion from 2006 to 2011, compared with $201
billion for U.S. buyers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shell, the largest member of the Stoxx 600, obtains just 37
percent of its  revenue from Europe , where London-based  Rio Tinto
Plc (RIO)   gets  about 13 percent of its sales. Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle generates more than 80 percent of revenue abroad.  Publicis (PUB)  is seeking to expand in Russia, Turkey and “a
couple of other places” after building up operations in China
and Brazil, said Levy, who has attended the Davos forum about 20
times since the 1980s.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  CEO Paul Walsh, who led the
world’s largest maker of spirits to make acquisitions in Turkey,
China and Vietnam last year, places a similar emphasis on
developing markets.  Consumer Demand  “The consumer demand that will emerge from these new
wealth-creating economies in the next 10 years is outstanding,
and people should make their choices on whether to play in that
game or not, mindful that there’s going to be incredible growth
in consumer spending,” said Walsh, who is also attending Davos.  European companies protected from slowing domestic markets
by geographic diversification may accelerate acquisitions after
takeovers fell 5 percent to $486 billion last year. While the
euro’s more than 9 percent decline in value since July has
eroded one advantage, it’s unlikely to derail dealmaking.  “If a deal is a very close call, the exchange rate could
make a difference,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at
Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc. “It’s unlikely to be a swing
factor.”  ’Poised to Strike’  Paris-based  Danone SA (BN) , the biggest yogurt maker, is vying
with Nestle for Pfizer Inc.’s baby-formula unit, which may fetch
as much as $10.5 billion, people familiar with the matter said
last year. Glencore International Plc, the global commodities
trader based in Switzerland, sold $10 billion of stock in an
initial public offering in May to help fund acquisitions and
expansion.  “Large caps will be in Davos and are poised to strike,”
said Ernst & Young’s McCrostie. “The volatility is not
affecting sentiment in their boardrooms and they’re feeling more
robust about growth.”  Net income for companies in the Stoxx 600 index may rise by
10.5 percent this year after increasing 11 percent in 2011, led
by carmakers such as  Porsche SE (PAH3)  and retailers including  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY) , according to more than 12,000 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg in November. The gauge is headed for four
straight years of income growth exceeding 10 percent, the
longest streak since 1998.  Signs of Improvement  Some early signs of a recovery may also prompt executives
to invest at home.  German investor confidence  jumped the most on
record in January, causing some economists to suggest the worst
of the crisis is over. Standard & Poor’s decision this month to
strip France, the second-largest euro-area economy, of its AAA
rating barely affected investors, with yields on 10-year bonds
little changed about a week after the announcement.  “The first three weeks of this year have been much better
than the final quarter of 2011,” Christian Meissner, Bank of
America Corp.’s co-head of global corporate and investment
banking, said in an interview in Davos. “Certainly the ECB’s
actions before Christmas were a big component in that, but on
the other hand, there is not yet a clear sense that the end game
is clear or imminent. It’s more positive for sure, but there is
some ways to go.”  The European Central Bank last month lent banks an
unprecedented 489 billion euros for three years. Since then,
financial stocks have rebounded while the cost of insuring bank
debt against default has fallen.  More broadly, the Stoxx Europe 600 has climbed 20 percent 
from its September low, entering a bull market, amid signs that 
the  U.S. economy  is recovering and speculation that the euro 
area will contain its debt crisis. Analysts describe a bull 
market as a gain of 20 percent from the most recent low, and 
such an increase in stock prices gives European companies more 
fire power to make acquisitions.  Those signs of health may convince some companies that
doing business in Europe is still worthwhile.  “It’s very important that we don’t divest from our base,”
said Publicis’ Levy. “We don’t want to throw the baby out with
the bathwater. Along with the U.S., Europe is still the world’s
most important economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Davos at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  