-- Ceres Plans to Raise as Much as $132 Million in IPO Next Month
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-25T15:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ceres-plans-to-raise-as-much-as-132-million-in-ipo-next-month.html
Ceres Inc., a U.S. seed maker, plans
to raise as much as $132 million in an initial public offering
to expand output of genetically modified crops used in the
production of biofuels.  Ceres will sell 5 million shares at $21 to $23 each, the
 Thousand Oaks , California-based company said today in a  filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The underwriters
can buy an additional 750,000 shares, Ceres said. The offering
is expected on Feb 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol CERE.  Ceres, which has been operating since 1997, will use most
of the proceeds from the IPO to develop and commercialize crop
seeds, build new facilities and expand the workforce. Ceres is
ramping up production to challenge  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and DuPont Co.,
the two largest makers of genetically modified crops.  Ceres has begun to sell sweet sorghum that serve as an
alternative to sugarcane in the Brazilian ethanol industry, as
well as switchgrass and high biomass sorghum. It’s developing
other so-called energy crops as well as plants that tolerate
drought and salt.  The company said its net loss widened in the year ended
Aug. 31 to $36.4 million, from $22.6 million, according to the
filing. Ceres’ $6.6 million of revenue last year was mostly from
collaborative research and government grants.  Underwriting the IPO are Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays
Plc, Piper Jaffray Cos, Raymond James Financial Inc. and Simmons
& Co. International, according to the filing.  Monsanto, which has been working with Ceres to develop
improved corn and soybeans, has a license to some of its genetic
traits. Monsanto, based in  St. Louis , has a 6.2 percent stake in
Ceres that will be diluted to about 4.8 percent after the
offering, according to the filing.  Other Ceres investors include Artal Luxembourg SA with a 19
percent stake; Warburg Pincus Private Equity with 15 percent;
Ambergate Trust with 14 percent; and Oxford Bioscience with 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  