-- Chavez’s Daughter With Fistful of Dollars Angers Venezuelans
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-01-25T19:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/chavez-s-daughter-with-fistful-of-dollars-angers-venezuelans.html
A photograph of Hugo Chavez’s 14-
year-old daughter flaunting a fistful of dollar bills is
stirring controversy among Venezuelans angered over her father’s
tight control of the economy, which has made foreign currency
hard to come by.  The  picture  was posted on Instagram, an application
available on Apple Inc. products such as the iPhone and iPad, by
Rosines Chavez, the youngest of Chavez’s four children. Her
mother and Chavez’s second wife, Marisabel Rodriguez, defended
her daughter’s actions. Rodriguez and Chavez are divorced.  “I told her that her mistake wasn’t to take the picture,
but rather posting it on a medium where there are ignorant
people who don’t respect others,” Rodriguez said on her Twitter
account Jan. 22.  Venezuelans mocked and criticized the photo on Twitter and
other social media sites. On micro-blogging site Tumblr, the
photograph was  mimicked  more than 30 times with items that have
become scarce under Chavez’s rule, including cooking oil and
corn flour, substituting for the fanned-out bills.  Rosines Chavez hasn’t explained why she took the photograph
of her holding the notes, including what appears to be a few
rare $2 bills, or why she decided to publish it.  The self-declared socialist Chavez, who often rails against
alleged U.S. imperialism, will seek election for a third six-
year term on Oct. 7.  Currency Controls  Chavez’s government established currency controls in 2003
in a bid to shore up the country’s international reserves by
stifling capital flight. A government agency known as CADIVI is
charged with enforcing rules that limit to $3,000 for travel and
$400 for internet purchases the amount of greenbacks Venezuelans
are allowed to buy a year at the fixed rate of 4.3 bolivars per
dollar.  Venezuelans who don’t receive approval to buy dollars at
the official rate pay about 8.5 bolivars per dollar on a black
market. Importers can also obtain dollars through a  currency
market  administrated by the central bank that allocates dollars
through bond sales at 5.3 bolivars per dollar.  Rosines courted controversy on social networks in the past
when she posted a picture of herself alongside Justin Bieber,
the Canadian pop singer, after meeting him off his plane in
Caracas airport when he visited  Venezuela  during a Latin
American tour. Twitter users in Venezuela said she used her
status as Chavez’s daughter to set up the meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 