-- Christie Can’t Shake New Jersey’s Last-Place Ranking for Business Climate
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-25T18:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/christie-can-t-shake-new-jersey-s-last-place-ranking-for-business-climate.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
the Republican who has sought to roll back taxes, battled with
public employee unions and was courted to run for president,
can’t shake one distinction: His state again ranks last in
business climate.  The Washington-based  Tax Foundation , which advocates for
simpler tax codes with lower rates,  today released  its annual
Business Tax Climate Index, which ranks the 50 U.S. states based
on how welcoming their tax law is to businesses. New Jersey
ranked 50th, a position it also held in 2011.  Christie’s state has the third-worst individual income tax,
the fifth-worst  sales tax , the 13th-worst corporate tax and the
second-worst property tax, the foundation said. The governor,
who took office in January 2010, said the ranking doesn’t
account for the 10 percent income-tax cut he proposed this month
or earlier moves to slash business taxes by $200 million and cap
property-tax growth at 2 percent a year.  “When that income-tax cut comes in, I’m willing to bet you
that we won’t be 50th again next time,” Christie told reporters
today in Trenton.  The index represents the tax climate as of July 1, the
first day of the fiscal year for most states. The second-worst
state was Christie’s northerly neighbor,  New York , run by
Democrat  Andrew Cuomo . Wyoming, which has no corporate or 
individual income tax, has the best business climate.  Illinois Drops  Illinois’s ranking plunged to 28th from 16th, after the
state last year raised its personal tax rate to 5 percent from 3
percent, and its corporate rate to 9.5 percent from 7.3 percent,
according to the foundation.  New Jersey’s ranking shows that Democratic lawmakers’ push
to raise income taxes on residents earning $1 million or more
would harm the state’s economy and make it less competitive,
Christie said. Democrats, who control both houses of the
Legislature, have said Christie’s tax cut would favor the
wealthy.  “This report is even more proof that we need to institute
the income tax cut; that we need to institute the rest of the
business-tax cuts that I laid out last year; and that we have to
continue through shared services and other efforts to make sure
our property taxes continue to move down,” Christie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in New York at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  