-- Christie Says He’d Abide by N.J. Gay Marriage Ballot Results
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-25T20:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/christie-says-he-would-abide-by-results-of-new-jersey-gay-marriage-ballot.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor Chris Christie
said he would abide by the results of a voter referendum on gay
marriage, even though he personally opposes the practice.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said he would veto a
bill allowing same-sex couples to wed and would vote against it
if the question was on the ballot in the November election. A
referendum is an “alternative path” to resolving the issue in
 New Jersey , Christie said.  “We all know how this movie is going to end,” Christie,
49, told reporters today in Trenton. “If they pass the bill,
and they know this, it’s going to be vetoed. If they attempt to
override that, the veto will be sustained. And they know that,
so I’m trying to give them an alternate movie.”  If the issue is put to voters and it passes, New Jersey
would be the first U.S. state where gays win the right to wed
directly from the public. Court rulings or legislation led to
the change in the six states and the  District of Columbia  where
it’s already legal. Voters have rejected legalization in all 31
referendums on the issue, according to Freedom to Marry, a New
York-based national advocacy organization.  At least four other states are tackling the issue this
year. Lawmakers in  Washington  and Maryland plan to push bills to
make same-sex marriage legal, while voters in  North Carolina  and
 Minnesota  will be asked to bar the practice through
constitutional amendments.  Civil Unions  Christie’s predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine , signed a
measure in 2006 to allow civil unions, after the state  Supreme
Court  ordered lawmakers to extend marital rights to gay couples.
The law is being challenged in state court by Lambda Legal, a
national gay-rights advocacy group, which argues that it doesn’t
provide the same benefits and protections as marriage.  Two years ago, Democrats who control both the Senate and
Assembly failed to pass a gay-marriage bill, even as Corzine
promised to sign it. The measure, which needed 21 votes in the
Senate for approval, was defeated 20-14 with three abstaining,
including Senate President  Stephen Sweeney . He later said he
made a mistake in not voting.  Democrats have made the issue a top priority in 2012, and
said they have enough votes to pass it. The Senate Judiciary
Committee approved the bill yesterday, prompting the veto threat
from Christie, who said he believes marriage should be between a
man and a woman.  ‘Political Ambition’  Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford, said gay marriage
is a civil-rights matter that shouldn’t be held “hostage to the
whims of a political campaign.”  The referendum suggestion from Christie, who has been
campaigning for presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  after
deciding against his own White House bid last year, is a
“cowardly display of national political ambition gone
haywire,” Sweeney said in a statement today.  “The governor may not have said it directly, but yesterday
saw the official opening of his campaign for vice president,”
Sweeney said. “There’s only one reason for the governor to
abandon his moral compass so quickly, and that’s to bulk up his
conservative bona fides in a transparent audition for a Mitt
Romney-Chris Christie ticket.”  ‘Fighting Shot’  Ellen Ann Andersen, author of “Out of the Closets & Into
the Courts,” a book about the legal struggles for gay rights,
said New Jersey’s position as a “kid cousin” to larger  New
York  makes it a prominent bellwether. Unlike North Carolina and
Minnesota, she said same-sex marriage may have a “fighting
shot” if it was on the ballot in the Garden State.  Public support for changing the law in New Jersey reached a
high of 52 percent in a Quinnipiac University poll released Jan.
19. The issue had support from 41 percent of voters in a 2006
poll by the Hamden, Connecticut-based polling institute.  Andersen, who is married to another woman under Vermont
law, said that heterosexual allies of same-sex marriage don’t
always turn out on election day and those who signal support in
polling often vote against gay marriage.  “Any way it goes for him at this point, there’s a bit of a
gamble on his end,” said Andersen, 44, who focuses on the
politics of sexuality as a professor at the University of
 Vermont  in Burlington. “If he doesn’t want to see marriage
equality in New Jersey, he has two choices: One, he can veto the
measure and hope there isn’t a veto-proof majority; or two, he
can try to pull it out of the Legislature to kill it.”  Christie said his intent with advocating for the public
vote wasn’t to deflect backlash from either side and he hoped to
have the referendum take place in November, during a
presidential election year when turnout would be the greatest.  “This is a significant change in societal, legal and
religious traditions for hundreds of years,” Christie said. “I
never inoculate myself from criticism. I’m the governor of New
Jersey. There’s nothing you can do to inoculate yourself from
criticism. When I wake up in the morning, I’m criticized and
when I go to bed I’m criticized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  