-- Firms Face Fines as Much as 2% of Sales Under EU Privacy Law
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-25T15:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/companies-face-fines-as-much-as-2-of-sales-under-eu-privacy-law.html
Companies face fines as high as 2
percent of yearly global sales for mishandling or losing
personal data under an overhaul of European Union privacy rules.  The 27 EU data-protection agencies would be able to
sanction companies that don’t comply with tougher rules on
handling personal information, proposed by the European
Commission today. Online-advertising and social networking sites
will also be covered by the policy, updating the EU’s 17-year-
old data-protection policies.  The EU overhaul would also clamp down on data lapses such
as  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s six-day delay in warning customers about a cyber
attack that exposed more than 100 million customer accounts, the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. Google Inc.
was fined 100,000 euros ($129,600) last year by  France , one of
the few European privacy agencies with the power to levy
financial penalties, over the company’s accidental collection of
personal information from wireless networks.  “We will finish with this scandal,”  said  EU Justice
Commissioner Viviane Reding at a press conference in Brussels.
“Companies and organizations must notify serious breaches as
soon as possible which means for me 24 hours” to the national
regulatory authority and to the person whose data has been
compromised.  Under the draft rules, serious violations such as
processing sensitive data without an individual’s consent or
without any legal justification, may be punished with penalties
as high as 1 million euros or as much as 2 percent of a
company’s yearly sales, the commission said. Less serious
offenses would be punished with smaller fines.  ‘One-Stop Shop’  The proposal will reduce the number of regulators a company
needs to contact for data-protection issues across the region as
the regulator of its home base will become a “one-stop shop.”
In practice, this will mean that Ireland’s agency will be in
charge of regulating companies like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook
Inc., which run their European operations from the country.  Wim Nauwelaerts, a lawyer at Hunton & Williams LLP in
Brussels, said businesses welcome having one point of contact to
reduce the legal uncertainty they currently face from multiple
jurisdictions.  “Inevitably some data-protection authorities are going to
receive more requests for clarifications,” Nauwelaerts said.
“It’s going to be one of the challenges of data-protection
authorities going forward, to make sure that they are adequately
equipped.”  ‘A Real Cost’  Companies could save as much as 2.3 billion euros a year as
redundant, contradictory or unnecessary reporting requirements
are eliminated, Reding said. Businesses currently face “a real
extra cost” from “contradictory data-protection
requirements,” she said.  The  Business Software Alliance , a group which counts
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  among its members, said the
proposal’s prescriptive approach to how data should be
collected, processed and stored may “bog down companies with
onerous compliance obligations which could inhibit digital
innovation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 