-- Concordia Captain Told Costa Sinking Ship Was Under Control, Chairman Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-25T17:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/concordia-captain-told-costa-sinking-ship-was-under-control-chairman-says.html
The captain of the  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s
Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized off the Italian coast
on Jan. 13 told company officials he needed to abandon the
vessel two minutes after saying the situation was under control,
Costa Crociere SpA Chairman Pier Luigi Foschi said.  Captain Francesco Schettino first called Roberto Ferrarini,
head of Costa Crociere’s marine operations department, at 9:57
p.m., about 15 minutes after the accident, to report that the
Concordia had hit rocks that ripped a hole in its side, Foschi
told Italian senators in a hearing today. While Schettino told
Ferrarini at 10:32 p.m. that the situation was “under
control,” he advised two minutes later that he was going to
order an evacuation, Foschi said.  Schettino, under house arrest, is accused of causing the
wreck and abandoning the ship. He allegedly deviated from the
planned route to navigate closer to the island as a “salute,”
hours after the vessel left a port near  Rome  for a Mediterranean
cruise carrying about 4,200 passengers and crew, court documents
show.  The evacuation order was only given an hour after the
accident, hampering operations as the ship was already listed.
At least 16 people died and 22 are missing, Italy’s Civil
Protection Agency said. Six victims haven’t been identified yet.  Saved Lives  Bruno Leporatti, Schettino’s lawyer, has said the captain
didn’t abandon the ship and wrote in a Jan. 16 statement that
his actions saved many lives. Schettino said he made an
emergency maneuver after hitting the rocks to prevent the vessel
from heading out to sea and sinking, according to the judge’s
written decision.  The captain has also told investigators the company asked
him to navigate close to Giglio to salute the island, newspapers
including la Repubblica have said. Costa Crociere told Bloomberg
News in a Jan. 22 e-mail that while a “touristic navigation”
five miles from the coast was planned for the Concordia, it was
up to the captain to ensure the safety of the route. The salute
wasn’t authorized, Foschi reiterated today.  He also said the Concordia crew “exclusively” evacuated
in difficult conditions about 4,000 passengers before external
rescuers arrived.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  