-- Conoco Profit Exceeds Estimates; Gas Output Cuts Planned
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-25T21:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/conoco-net-income-rises-as-oil-prices-counter-lower-production.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported fourth-
quarter profit that surpassed analysts’ estimates as the
producer said it plans to idle some natural-gas wells because of
low prices and focus on boosting output of petroleum liquids
such as crude.  The  company  will shut about 100 million cubic feet of daily
gas production this quarter out of 2.5 billion cubic feet a day
in  Canada  and the lower 48 U.S. states, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Sheets said in a telephone interview today. Sheets said
gas, which touched a 10-year low this month and is trading for
less than $3 per million British thermal units, may remain
“soft for another year or two.”  Gas prices ultimately need to rise to a level to generate
long-term supply, such as $5 or $6, Sheets said. ConocoPhillips,
based in Houston, is pushing ahead with onshore U.S. projects in
areas rich in liquids such as the Eagle Ford and Bakken
formations. Eagle Ford daily output in  Texas  may double to the
equivalent of 100,000 barrels of oil by the end of this year
from more than 50,000 barrels in late December, the company
said.  “I’m a big believer that these unconventional shale plays
are going to be the source of future growth for them,” said
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in
 Chicago . At the same time, she said, “you’re going to see many
producers begin to pull back on the natural-gas side” until
prices improve.  North American Gas  Economics remain favorable for production that is
associated with output of oil and natural-gas liquids, Sheets
said. Some partners may not want to idle other gas production
because they want to continue receiving  cash flow , he said.  ConocoPhillips said it’s limiting investment in North
American gas production, which comprised about 26 percent of
output last year.  The company said output of oil and gas in the fourth
quarter fell 7.6 percent from a year earlier following asset
sales and suspensions of projects in Libya and  China .
ConocoPhillips said quarterly production was the equivalent of
about 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, surpassing a previous
daily forecast of 1.56 million to 1.58 million barrels.  ConocoPhillips fell 0.89 percent to $69.68 at the close in
 New York . Before today, the stock had declined 3.1 percent this
year.  Revenue Increases  ConocoPhillips said it bought more than 100,000 acres in
North American shale projects that are rich in petroleum
liquids, taking its shale acquisitions to more than 500,000
acres in 2011. ConocoPhillips’s daily output from North American
projects in the Bakken, Permian and Eagle Ford may rise to the
equivalent of about 270,000 barrels of oil in several years from
120,000 barrels, Sheets said.  Net income in the fourth quarter climbed 66 percent to
$3.39 billion, or $2.56 a share, from $2.04 billion, or $1.39, a
year earlier, Houston-based ConocoPhillips said in a statement
today. Profit excluding gains on pipeline asset sales and one-
time costs was about $2.02 a share, 22 cents more than the
average of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said fourth-quarter revenue rose 17 percent
from a year earlier to $62.4 billion.  “ConocoPhillips continues to hit on all cylinders,” said
Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  who has
a “buy” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns none.
“Production was slightly higher than the company had guided
toward and the refining and marketing decline in earnings was
not as great as generally anticipated.”  Refining, Marketing  Refining and marketing income fell 2.9 percent to $201
million, excluding gains from asset sales. Refiners including
Tesoro Corp. and Marathon Petroleum Corp. warned of losses in
the quarter as profit margins narrowed on rising oil prices.  ConocoPhillips plans to spin off its refining business in
the second quarter so it can focus on finding and producing oil
and natural gas. The new company will be known as Phillips 66
and will trade under the symbol PSX.  ConocoPhillips is in the midst of a three-year plan to  sell 
$15 billion to $20 billion of assets by the end of 2012 to fund
share repurchases and position itself for future growth.  The company may have daily production of about 1.6 million
barrels of oil equivalent in 2012, excluding possible asset
sales, Sheets said on a conference call with analysts and
investors today. That forecast assumes rising production from
 Libya  and  Bohai Bay  in China, which was the site of an  oil
spill .  Oil Price Boost  Brent crude futures, a benchmark oil price used by much of
the world, climbed 25 percent from a year earlier to average
$109.02 a barrel in the quarter. Natural-gas futures traded in
New York averaged $3.48 per million British thermal units in the
quarter, a decline of 13 percent from a year earlier. Gas this
month traded at the lowest price since 2002.  Unrest in Libya caused ConocoPhillips to suspend production
from that country last year. The company’s net oil output from
Libya averaged about 46,000 barrels a day in 2010, according to
a regulatory filing. Production from Libya is about 20,000
barrels a day currently, Sheets said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  