-- No Slower Steaming as Container Lines Run Like Clippers: Freight
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2012-01-26T09:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/container-ships-at-clipper-speed-run-out-of-option-to-stem-losses-freight.html
Container ships can’t go any slower.  Shipping lines are running out of options to stop losses as
sailing speeds reach their lower limit, exhausting a solution
that helped restore profitability in 2010.  The global container fleet is now cruising near record-low
speeds after  slowing 11 percent  from August when the freight
rate market collapsed, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg
and Lloyd’s Register. Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. estimates
some of the smallest shipping lines will run out of cash in the
second half of this year as the industry fails to adjust to
overcapacity that’s allowing customers to  push down rates .  “Container lines have already exhausted most of the tricks
for absorbing capacity,” said Bjorn Vang Jensen, a Singapore-
based vice president at  Electrolux AB (ELUXBB)  who oversees about 150,000
shipments a year. “Some of these container ships are now so
slow that they’re close to the speeds of the old sailing ships.
The clippers might actually have been faster.”  With options running out, investors in container-line
stocks should brace themselves for losses. Still, shares in
Copenhagen-based  A.P Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s biggest
container line, may fall less than smaller competitors this year
because its bigger ships are more cost-efficient, said Rikard Vabo, an analyst at Fearnley Fonds ASA in Oslo.  Slow-steaming, pioneered by A.P. Moeller-Maersk’s container
unit, Maersk Line, helps carriers cut costs when times are
tough. By sailing at lower speeds, ships need less fuel and can
offset capacity stresses by using more vessels to make up for
the longer sailing times.  Losing Money  With speeds unlikely to get any slower, the industry is
growing more vulnerable to rising  fuel costs , and all container
lines are now losing money, according to BIMCO, the biggest
international shipping association.  “The potential for further slow-steaming seems to be of
little significance to the overall market balance,” said Peter Sand, a Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based analyst at  BIMCO , whose members
control 65 percent of the world’s tonnage. “Compared with the
2009 crisis, we don’t see the same level of idling.”  That’s the message the industry is hearing from advisers
including Paris-based  Alphaliner , which estimates that slower-
steaming may even start raising costs for carriers as they
deploy more vessels to meet demand.  “There’s much less potential than in 2009 to mop up excess
capacity in reducing the speed further,” Alphaliner said in a
Jan. 23 e-mail.  Maersk Shares  Nomura International Plc today cut its recommendation on
Maersk shares to “neutral” from “buy,” saying the container
unit will also be unprofitable this year.  “Burdened by an unfavorable supply/demand balance at the
industry level and an unwillingness by the bigger operators to
remove vessels from service, we see only a modest recovery at
 Maersk Line  in 2012,” Nomura analysts, including London-based
Mark McVicar, said in a note.  Maersk B shares slipped as much as 0.8 percent today before
trading 0.2 percent lower at 40,160 kroner as of 9:52 a.m. in
Copenhagen. The 20-member OMX Copenhagen benchmark index gained
0.3 percent today.  For a nine-week trip with ships that carry 8,500
containers, a carrier can cut 3 percent of costs by slowing to
17.2 knots from 19.8 knots. Slowing further to 15.2 knots, by
contrast, actually pushes up costs 0.5 percent as the expense of
operating the additional ship starts to outweigh fuel reduction,
Alphaliner estimates.  ‘Super Slow’  Maersk Line says it may be able to bring its speeds down
even further. The company cut its average speed to about 17
knots last year from 20 knots in 2008, according to Morten Engelstoft, Maersk Line’s chief operating officer. The company’s
 whole fleet  currently sails at about 16-18 knots, he said.  “There is still some potential for slow-steaming, both for
us and probably for the industry,” Engelstoft said in a Jan. 23
interview. “We are looking into the possibility of super slow-
steaming. That would be 12-16 knots.”  The 19th-century  clippers , the fastest ships of their time,
transported tea to the U.K. and U.S. from  China  and  India ,
according to the website of the U.K. Tea Council. The ships,
which had three or more masts and dozens of sails, could reach a
peak average speed of more than 16 knots.  Slow-steaming, coupled with idling ships, helped turn a
2009 industry-wide operating loss of $19 billion into a $17
billion profit the year after, according to Drewry. The industry
reverted to a $5.2 billion loss last year and prospects for 2012
are “dire” because the gap between supply and demand will grow
even wider, the London-based consultant said in a Jan. 4 report.  ‘Too Early’  Engelstoft said Maersk Line hasn’t yet committed to even
slower-steaming as a strategy for weathering the crisis.  “We are looking at Asia-Europe, but it’s still too early
to say if we will introduce super slow-steaming there and to
what extent,” he said. “It’s also important for us to maintain
a high level of reliability for our customers.”  Maersk may emerge a winner among the world’s biggest
container lines, according to analyst Vabo. Still, the company’s
shareholders probably will lose money in the short term because
there are no immediate solutions for overcapacity, he said.  Vabo estimates Maersk shares will plunge 18 percent over
the next three to six months from their levels of Jan. 17, while
 TUI AG (TUI1) , the listed owner of the world’s fourth container line,
Hapag-Lloyd, will fall 21 percent.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) ,
the world’s sixth-largest listed line, will drop 37 percent, he
estimates. Shareholders of  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. Ltd. (011200) , the
world’s 18th-largest line, will suffer the most: The company
stands to lose more than half its value.  Winners, Losers  “The winners will be the companies that have the lowest
costs on their ships, run them efficiently and have good
balances,” Vabo said. Maersk could gain more than 50 percent
after the container market has recovered, he said. The shares
lost 25 percent in 2011, its  second-worst  share performance over
the course of a calendar year since 1998.  Other options for adjusting to overcapacity in the shipping
industry are also proving untenable. Many ships haven’t yet been
paid off by their owners, and scrapping vessels that represent a
financial liability isn’t feasible, Sand at BIMCO said.  The average age of the world’s container fleet is less than
five years compared with about 11 years for the global dry bulk
fleet and nine years for tankers, according to BIMCO.  Closely held CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-largest line,
said “there is still room to reduce the speed” of its vessels,
though the Marseille-based company didn’t provide details in an
e-mailed reply to questions. Hapag-Lloyd, based in Hamburg,
could also sail slower, though it doesn’t have any plans to do
so, Rainer Horn, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  Going Bankrupt  Meanwhile, freight rates earned by carriers weren’t enough
to cover fuel costs in the fourth quarter, according to BIMCO’s
Sand. The price of container-ship fuel rose to a record on Jan.
20, up 32 percent from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
index on  global average prices  for 380-centistoke bunker.  Global freight rates dropped on average 25 percent last
year, according to RS Platou Markets AS. Prices fell the most on
Asia-to-Europe routes, where the decline was almost 60 percent,
the Oslo-based broker said in a Jan. 4 note.  “The container market can’t stay at this level for a
prolonged period of time as everyone then will basically go
bankrupt,” Vabo at Fearnley said. “It’s at unsustainable
levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 