-- Cool Designer Ervell Hates to Shop, Wants NYC Store: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/cool-designer-ervell-hates-to-shop-wants-nyc-store-interview.html
As Patrik Ervell sips his second
latte in the garden room of the Mondrian SoHo, you’d be hard-
pressed to tell that he’s one of the hottest young designers in
 New York .  Dressed in jeans, New Balance sneakers and a simple blue
button-down shirt, Ervell, 32, is indistinguishable from the
vaguely mussed creative types who pack downtown.  What makes Ervell -- and all those scenesters -- so
effortlessly cool is his own, eponymous clothing line.  Tarmy: You’ve made your name as a menswear designer. Is the
creative process very different for women’s wear?  Ervell: Men are really just cylinders, much simpler to work
with than a woman’s shape. Also, there’s a different kind of
mentality to the clothes.  Menswear is all about these little details and slight
changes in proportion, but for women’s wear you have to turn up
the volume. And that somehow makes it less interesting: a change
of a centimeter in menswear can be very powerful; in women’s
wear it’s usually meaningless.  Tarmy: So your menswear line’s aesthetic doesn’t change
dramatically from season to season?  Ervell: No, there’s never a seasonal jump. Men don’t dress
that way. No one actually says, “This season,  India  is my
inspiration,” or whatever. That’s nonsense.  It’s much more interesting to develop a specific language
for a brand.  Showing Fashion  Tarmy: Why bother with the cost and hassle of a fashion
show, then?  Ervell: I’m not sure it makes sense to have a fashion show
anymore. I know that 99% of the people who see the clothes from
my show aren’t seeing them in person but on a computer. So is
there a more clever format to present my clothing every season?  Of course there is. But it’s tricky, because I’m part of an
industry with a specific way of doing things.  Tarmy: Aren’t you already circumventing the process online?  Ervell: I started my online store about three years ago,
not especially early.  But, weirdly, within other brands my size, it was sort of
early. Even a huge brand like Prada had the most basic, junior-
league website up until 3 years ago.  The Internet was seen as a little bit gross, somehow,
almost a little bit tacky -- if you were selling expensive
clothes, you weren’t supposed to be selling them on a website.  Flagship Store  Tarmy: Would you consider opening your own flagship store?  Ervell: It’s almost time, and New York would make the most
sense as a location.  Right now we’re not looking for a lease, but I’d say that a
store will happen relatively soon. But my first store really is
my website -- I don’t want it to be considered an in-between
step.  Tarmy: Is your line profitable at this point?  Ervell: It’s tricky because when you’re growing and you
make money, the money you make is outstripped by your growth.  So I am growing, and in that sense I’m making money, but
it’s not like I’m buying a new apartment anytime soon.  Tarmy: Producing most of your clothes in the U.S. probably
takes a chunk out of your margins.  Ervell: For one season I did production in  South Korea , and
then we moved it back here. There was something missing. There
was a flatness to the clothing.  When everything is made here in the garment district, we go
to the factories every day and work with the people making the
clothing.  Made in America  Tarmy: Do you think your customers notice the difference?  Ervell: For a long time, being made in America wasn’t seen
as a nice thing, but that’s changed a lot, especially in
menswear.  I’m manufacturing clothing here in New York, and I’m
exporting it to  China  and South Korea and  Japan . Suddenly “Made
in America” has a value to the Chinese customer in almost the
same way that “Made in  France ” or “Made in  Italy ” once had for
Americans.  Tarmy: Do you wear your own clothes?  Ervell: Yes. I’m wearing a shirt I designed right now. It’s
a little stained, but it’s my clothing.  Tarmy: Where else do you shop?  Ervell: I don’t shop for clothes. When we design our
menswear, it’s fitted to me.  Tarmy: In effect, all of your men’s collections are
designed for you, personally.  Ervell: I don’t enjoy shopping. I never did.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 