-- Corning Retreats Most in Eight Weeks After Its Net Income Declines by 53%
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-01-25T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/corning-fourth-quarter-profit-matches-analysts-estimates-as-sales-advance.html
Corning Inc. (GLW) , the largest maker of
glass for flat-panel televisions, declined the most in eight
weeks in New York after saying glass prices contributed to a 53
percent drop in fourth-quarter profit and are still sinking.  Corning retreated 11 percent to $13.05 at the close, its
biggest plunge since November. The stock has fallen 38 percent
over the past 12 months.  Sales of flat-panel TVs, many of which use Corning’s glass,
fell during 2011 at retailers such as Best Buy Co. Consumers are
buying fewer TVs even as retail prices decline, Corning Chief
Financial Officer James Flaws said today on a conference call.
Component makers such as Corning have capacity that isn’t being
used, Flaws said.  “The real concern for investors is what happens in the
glass industry and how they deal with excess capacity,” said
Alkesh Shah, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York ,
in a telephone interview today. “Management is making the right
decision to reduce capacity. The question is will they reduce
enough, and what will competitors do.” He has an “equal
weight” rating on Corning.  Net income for Corning declined to $491 million, or 31
cents a share, from $1.04 billion, or 66 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement today. While profit excluding some
items matched the 33-cent average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, the company also said that earnings from
affiliates that accounted for more half of the pretax income
would fall in the first quarter amid “significant” price
declines.  Dow Corning  Corning said first-quarter earnings excluding some items
may fall 5 percent to 20 percent from the previous quarter at
the affiliates, including Dow Corning and Samsung Corning
Precision Materials. The affiliates provided 58 percent of
Corning pretax profit in the fourth quarter, according to
today’s statement.  The company, based in Corning, New York, had cut its
fourth-quarter forecast on Nov. 29, after price declines for
liquid crystal display glass and the loss of a contract in
 Korea . Corning said then that earnings might drop 30 percent,
not 5 percent as predicted in October.  A Corning spokesman, Daniel Collins, said the company will
disclose more details about its expectations for 2012 at an
investor meeting on Feb. 3.  “It’s still going to be a tough year,” said Darice Liu,
an analyst with Brigantine Advisors, citing uncertainty about
the economy, in comments made before the earnings report.  Fourth-quarter sales for Corning advanced 6.9 percent to
$1.89 billion, from $1.77 billion a year earlier. The average
estimate of analysts was $1.85 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company makes glass and ceramic products, including
glass panels for liquid crystal displays, Gorilla Glass found on
smartphone touch screens, fiber-optic cables, industrial air
filters, and life science equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  