-- Daniels Says Democratic ‘Extremism’ Is ‘Pro-Poverty Policy’
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-01-25T04:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/daniels-says-democratic-extremism-is-pro-poverty-policy-1-.html
Indiana Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels  said Democratic “extremism” promotes a “pro-poverty
policy” by hindering U.S. energy development, blocking the
Keystone XL pipeline and backing costly environmental
regulations.  Daniels, in his party’s response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union speech, said Republicans back a
“pro-jobs, pro-growth” economic policy.  “We do not accept that ours will ever be a nation of haves
and have-nots; we must always be a nation of haves and soon-to-
haves,” Daniels said.  “It’s not fair and it’s not true for the president to
attack Republicans in Congress as obstacles” to economic
recovery, Daniels said. In his speech, Obama promised to “fight
obstruction with action” in dealing with Congress.  Daniels, 62, was encouraged by some Republicans to oppose
Obama before he announced, last May, that he wouldn’t run for
president. Daniels, a former budget director under President
 George W. Bush , was elected in 2008 to a second term as Indiana
governor.  Describing Republicans as the “loyal opposition,” Daniels
said the party supports a “dramatically simpler tax system of
fewer loopholes and lower rates.”  Dividing Americans  “The president did not cause the economic and fiscal
crises that continue in America tonight, but he was elected on a
promise to fix them, and he cannot claim that the last three
years have made things anything but worse,” Daniels said. “No
feature of the Obama presidency has been sadder than its
constant efforts to divide us, to curry favor with some
Americans by castigating others.”  Daniels criticized Obama for “constant disparagement of
people in business” and said “the president’s grand experiment
in trickle-down government has held back rather than sped
economic recovery.”  Citing growing  federal debt , Daniels said, “Time is
running out if we are to avoid the fate of  Europe .”  Republicans want to “fashion a new and affordable safety
net” for Social Security and  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  in the future while
keeping the programs “unchanged and untouched for those who
currently or will soon receive benefits,” Daniels said.  “Decades ago, for instance, we could afford to send
millionaires pension checks and pay medical bills for even the
wealthiest among us,” Daniels said. “Now, we can’t, so the
dollars we have should be devoted to those who need them most.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  