-- Davos Delegates Say EU Must Show Resolve Amid Greek Split
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-25T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/davos-delegates-say-eu-must-show-resolve-as-greek-split-persists.html
Europe  must show more resolve to fix
the debt crisis as officials race to draft rules governing the
euro and bridge widening difference over how to keep Greece’s
finances afloat, said delegates at the World Economic Forum.  “We can’t wait too long,” said  Peter Voser , chief
executive officer of Royal Dutch/Shell Plc. “It’s two minutes
before midnight.”  Executives and officials are meeting in Davos, Switzerland
as bond markets show signs of stabilizing after the  European
Central Bank  last month pumped three-year emergency funding into
a banking system that was in danger of seizing up. At the same
time, governments, investors and the  International Monetary Fund 
are split on how to restructure Greek debt less than two months
before a potential default.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said today that
Greece’s “public creditors” will have to participate with
investors. Two people familiar with the stance of the ECB’s
Governing Council said the central bank is opposed.  “There has to be a lot more work done,”  David Rubenstein ,
the co-founder of private-equity firm  Carlyle Group , said in an
interview in Davos, Switzerland.  Davos attendees will hear from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at 5:25 p.m. local time when she delivers the forum’s
opening speech. ECB President  Mario Draghi  will be in town on
Jan. 27.  All Clear?  Delegates warned it’s too soon to sound the all clear on
Europe even after the ECB’s decision to pump emergency cash into
the banking system staved off a bond market rout in the region.  The ECB’s measures “have relieved the liquidity problems
of European banks but didn’t cure the financing disadvantages
highly indebted countries suffer,” billionaire investor  George Soros  told reporters in Davos today. “Half a solution isn’t
enough.”  The views dovetail with the findings of a Bloomberg Global
Poll, conducted Jan. 23-24. Almost half of respondents
identified the euro area as one of the worst to invest in and 67
percent predicted the crisis will deepen. Draghi nevertheless
won plaudits with 70 percent saying they had a favorable view of
him.  “I’m convinced he’ll do whatever is necessary to fend off
the crisis,” Urs Rohner, chairman of Credit Suisse Group, said
in an interview.  Greek Snag  Europe’s drive to end the crisis has hit a snag as
governments and investors struggle to reach an accord over how
to cut  Greece ’s debt levels. European officials are demanding
that private bondholders take deeper losses, while banks argue
that all holders of Greek debt, both public and private, should
contribute. Failure to reach agreement could mean Greece will
struggle to make a bond payment on March 20.  “No one wants to be the only one feeling the pain,” said
John Veihmeyer, chief executive for the Americas at  KPMG , the
global accounting and professional services firm.  The ECB began buying Greek bonds in May 2010 and  Barclays
Capital  estimates it now holds about 36 billion euros ($46.6
billion) worth of bonds.  Some observers in Davos say leaders are refusing to grasp
more dramatic measures.  “This year is decisive for making decisions,” said German Gref, chief executive officer of  OAO Sberbank (SBER03) ,  Russia ’s largest
bank. “It would be considerably more rational for Greece to
quit the eurozone. For Greece it will mean a gradual
accelerating of its economy, restoring its competitiveness.”  Merkel Speech  Delegates will listen to Merkel’s speech for any sign she’s
shifted her stance on euro bonds to help out the region’s most
indebted countries as Europe pushes ahead with her plan to lock
in stricter debt and deficit limits.  While Merkel said that joint euro-area bonds “are no
solution to the current crisis” in an interview published today
with European newspapers including  Germany ’s Sueddeutsche
Zeitung, she reiterated that European countries might consider
“more joint liability once we have achieved much deeper
integration,” according to an e-mailed transcript.  “We took an important step by discussing reasons of the
crisis in an honest manner,” German Labor Minister Ursula von
der Leyen said in an interview. “A single currency means a
joint budget discipline. That has been accepted. In the medium
to long term, confidence in Europe will only be re-established
if we prove that we’re competitive.”  Well-Kept Secret  In contrast, delegates are much more optimistic about
prospects for the U.S.  “It’s like a well-kept secret that U.S. is doing better,”
said Vivek Ranadive, chief executive officer of Tibco Software
Inc., who plans to hire 500 people in the U.S. this year in
sales and service. “It is a good time to hire,” he said in an
interview in Davos.  The Department of Commerce will report Jan. 27 that the
economy grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012,
according to the median estimate of a separate Bloomberg Survey
of 78 economists. That would be the fastest pace since the
second quarter of 2010.  The  unemployment rate  fell in December to 8.5 percent, the
lowest since February 2009, and an index of sentiment among
homebuilders increased this month to the highest level since
June 2007.  Occupancy rates at U.S. hotels run by  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc . are above their level before the
financial crisis started, according to President Matthew Avril.  Hotel Occupancies  “We are very bullish about the  United States ,” Avril said
in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos. “We are
back to pre-crisis level in occupancy throughout our system in
 North America .”  Starwood, owner of brands including W and St. Regis, opened
27 hotels in North America last year and plans to open 20 more
in 2012, the Stamford, Connecticut-based company said in a
statement yesterday.  To be sure, Dimensional Fund Advisors LP Chairman David Booth said investors’ bullish view on the U.S. makes him nervous
about the growth prospects for the world’s largest economy.  “Generally, when there is a consensus that is a good time
to take the other side,” Booth, whose firm oversees $200
billion, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker today from Davos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Simone Meier in Davos, Switzerland at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  