-- Delta, US Airways Shares Climb as Earnings Beat Forecasts on Higher Fares
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-25T21:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/delta-us-airways-profits-beat-analysts-forecasts-as-fares-mitigate-fuel.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  rose in New York after saying higher fares and full
planes produced fourth-quarter profits that topped analysts’
estimates.  Delta, the world’s second-biggest airline, increased
6.2 percent to $9.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New York, the biggest daily
advance since October. US Airways, which confirmed today it is
exploring merger options with bankrupt American Airlines parent
AMR Corp., climbed 17 percent to $7.52, its largest gain since
July 2009.  Planes flew more than 80 percent full after carriers cut
capacity, allowing both airlines to boost prices and post higher
revenue than analysts anticipated. That helped mitigate an
average 26 percent gain in  fuel prices . Strong travel demand and
revenue growth continue so far in 2012, both companies said.  “The fourth quarter marks a turnaround in the space, and
the industry has proven that they can be profitable at $100-a-
barrel oil,” said  Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst
who recommends buying  Delta (DAL)  stock and holding US Airways.
“We’re getting some very good guidance for the first quarter,
and that underscores for us that we don’t think the industry is
seeing a downturn.”  Profit Doubles  Profit at Atlanta-based Delta excluding some items more
than doubled to $379 million, or 45 cents a share, exceeding a
38-cent average from 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. US Airways’ earnings on that basis fell to 13 cents a
share, topping the average  forecast  of 3 cents.  Southwest Airlines Co., the largest low-fare carrier,
posted a profit on Jan. 19 that also topped analysts’ estimates.
United Continental Holdings Inc., the world’s biggest airline,
is scheduled to report results tomorrow.  Net income  at Delta surged to $425 million, or 50 cents a
share, from $19 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier. The results
included a $164 million gain on fuel hedges, a $43 million gain
related to a slot-trade at  New York ’s LaGuardia airport with US
Airways, $81 million to write down the value of aircraft and $80
million for debt extinguishment and severance.  Fuel costs rose about 5 percent to $2 billion. Revenue
gained 8 percent to $8.4 billion for Delta’s main jet operations
and regional carriers. The airline forecast a 15 percent
increase this month in unit revenue, a measure of fares and
traffic.  ‘Strong’ Trends  “Overall system demand trends remain strong for the March
quarter,” Delta President Ed Bastian said on a conference call
with analysts. “Our February trends appear largely consistent
with what we are seeing in January.”  In addition to boosting average fares per mile 11 percent,
Delta reduced flying on trans-Atlantic routes because of
plummeting demand for travel to  Europe . The cost to fly each
seat a mile rose 5 percent for its main jet fleet.  “The biggest challenge we face in 2012 is stemming the
cost creep we have seen over the last few years,” Chief
Financial Officer Hank Halter told employees in a memo today.
“We are committed to bringing our non-fuel unit costs back down
to 2010 levels and are working on identifying changes that will
enable us to meet this commitment.”  Delta’s operating margin should increase in a range of 2
percent to 4 percent this quarter, and unit costs excluding fuel
should rise 3 percent to 5 percent, the airline said. Delta
plans to trim capacity as much as 5 percent in the period.  US Airways   US Airways CEO Doug Parker said the Tempe, Arizona-based
airline has hired Millstein & Co., Barclays Plc and law firm
Latham & Watkins LLP to help evaluate options for a possible
combination with AMR. TPG Capital and Delta Air Lines Inc. also
are evaluating bids, people familiar with the matter have said.  AMR declined to comment on Parker’s remarks beyond saying
it’s “laser focused” on achieving increased revenue and a
competitive cost and debt structure while in bankruptcy.  US Airways’  net income  declined 36 percent to $18 million,
or 11 cents a share, from $28 million, or 17 cents, a year
earlier, the carrier said. The results included $2 million in
legal fees related to arbitration of auction rate securities and
$1 million in costs tied to its US Airways Express unit.  An 8.5 percent increase in  revenue  gave US Airways a record
$3.2 billion for the quarter. That helped offset a 29 percent
boost in its average price per gallon of fuel. The airline is
the only major U.S. carrier that doesn’t use hedging, or advance
contracts at a fixed cost, to help protect against volatility.  US Airways hasn’t seen any decline in business or leisure
travel demand, said President Scott Kirby, who forecast unit
passenger revenue growth of 10 percent this month and in
February, and “high single digits” for March.  Business Demand  “If anything, the new year has seen a step up in business
demand from the already strong level we saw in the second half
of 2011,” he said on a conference call. “The pricing
environment also remains strong and the industry is successfully
recovering high fuel prices.”  The airline will complete the removal of Boeing Co. 737s
from its fleet this year as it retires 15 leased aircraft, and
it will add 12 new Airbus SAS A321s, Chief Financial Officer
Derek Kerr said. Flight and seat capacity will rise about 1
percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  