-- Delta Profit Surpasses Estimates as Higher Fares Outpace Rising Fuel Costs
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-25T12:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/delta-air-lines-profit-tops-estimates-as-fares-outpace-rising-fuel-costs.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s fourth-
quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates as higher fares
outpaced rising jet-fuel costs.  Earnings excluding some items more than doubled to $379
million, or 45 a share, the Atlanta-based carrier said today in
a statement. That exceeded the 38-cent  average  of 15 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit on that basis  a year
earlier  was $158 million.  Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier, benefited from
planes that were more than 80 percent full, which gave it more
pricing power to raise fares and helped overcome increased jet-
fuel expenses. Delta also reduced flying on trans-Atlantic
routes in response to plummeting demand for travel to Europe,
which lowered costs.  In the coming year, Delta will focus on “sustained
profitability and superior returns by growing and diversifying
our revenues, while taking a disciplined approach to capacity,
costs and  capital spending ,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard
Anderson  said in the statement.  Net income surged to $425 million, or 50 cents a share,
from 19 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier. Fuel costs rose
about 5 percent to $2 billion.  Delta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  release results today,
becoming the second and third major U.S. carriers to give
fourth-quarter figures.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  posted a profit
last week.  Southwest’s earnings excluding benefits on fuel-purchase
contracts fell 43 percent to $66 million, or 9 cents a share,
which beat the 8-cent average of 14 analysts’ estimates. The
Dallas-based carrier also said it may delay any expansion to as
late as 2014 because $100-a-barrel oil is eroding profit growth.  United Airlines  and Continental Airlines merged in 2010,
surpassing Delta as the world’s biggest carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  