-- Denmark to Stimulate Discussion on EU 2030 Climate Goal in March
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-25T15:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/denmark-to-stimulate-discussion-on-eu-2030-climate-goal-in-march.html
Denmark , which holds the European
Union rotating presidency, seeks to stimulate a debate on future
greenhouse-gas reduction goals in March to prevent further
declines in carbon prices after they dropped to a four-year low.  The price of EU emission permits is lower than the bloc
expected when the system was started in 2005 and governments’
support for a policy paper sketching out the most cost-efficient
way to long-term  climate  goals could help the market, Martin Lidegaard, Denmark’s climate minister, said in an interview in
Brussels today. The policy paper presented last year by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, maps out potential
future goals, or milestones, for 2030 and 2040.  Any potential decision to withdraw a number of allowances
from the market, an option some European Parliament members want
the commission to propose in order to curb oversupply, requires
more certainty about the legal initiatives currently being
debated by the EU, he said. The region’s environment ministers
are next due to discuss climate policies when they meet on March
9 in Luxembourg.  “We will try to talk to all our colleagues,” Lidegaard
said. “When it comes for the milestones for 2030, it’s my
impression that there might be willingness among many countries
to address the issue simply because it’s recognized that we need
the price signal for the industry and investors.”  Oversupplied System  EU carbon permits dropped to as low as 6.30 euros ($8.17)
in December from almost 30 euros in July 2008 on concern that
the cap-and-trade system, the world’s largest, is oversupplied
amid an economic slowdown. The EU emissions trading system, or
the ETS, is the cornerstone of the region’s climate policy and
leads to a cap on utilities and factories in 2020 that will be
21 percent below 2005 levels. It expanded this year into
aviation.  The 27-nation bloc, which wants to lead the global fight
against  climate change , is on track to meet its headline goal of
cutting  greenhouse gases  by 20 percent in 2020 and plans to
lower pollution by at least 80 percent by 2050. The most cost-
effective way to achieve that would be to lower discharges by 40
percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040, according to the
commission’s strategy paper, known as the Climate Roadmap.  Member states remain split on future policy and a potential
move to a stricter goal for 2020, which the Climate Roadmap
showed was feasible. While richer EU nations are ready to deepen
carbon cuts, poorer member countries are concerned about the
cost of a more ambitious switch to cleaner fuels. Poland in June
vetoed a planned ministerial declaration on future emission
reductions.  Undermined Demand  Carbon permits for December 2012 delivery traded 0.4
percent higher at 7.54 euros a metric ton as of 2:40 p.m. on
 London ’s ICE Futures Europe Exchange. The contract has lost 51
percent from a year ago as the economic slowdown cut into
industrial production, undermining demand for pollution rights,
whose supply was set by member states before the crisis started.  The current price is unsustainable in the longer term,
according to Lidegaard.  “There are many factors that have impact on the price,”
he said. “One way to go forward is to take aside allowances
from the market. But we have to know how many would be the right
figure and I don’t think we can estimate that before we know
where we’re headed with the efficiency directive.”  Set-Aside  The draft energy efficiency law, requiring more energy
savings in the region, is currently being discussed by the
European Parliament and national governments. To prevent the new
measures from further damping demand for emission permits in the
ETS, some deputies want to include in the law an amendment
calling on the commission to propose a set-aside of allowances.  Even if such an amendment is backed by the Parliament and
national governments and becomes a part of the energy efficiency
law, withdrawing some allowances from the market would require a
separate regulation to be proposed by the commission and
approved by  member states .  “I think the right order here is to get all our
initiatives toward 2020 clear and try to make a calculation does
it makes sense to create a set aside,” Lidegaard said. “What
is hard to say now is the number of allowances. We need a more
stable ground to consider such a decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  