-- Denmark’s Bank Merger Bill to Be Broadened
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-25T08:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/denmark-s-bank-merger-bill-to-be-broadened-as-losses-swell.html
Denmark is close to unveiling extra
measures to accelerate bank mergers and avert insolvencies as
losses in the industry swell, according to a member of the
parliamentary group overseeing lenders.  The parliament’s business committee is in talks to broaden
a consolidation bill passed in September as healthy banks in the
Nordic country show reluctance to buy their troubled peers, said
Brian Mikkelsen, a member of the committee who, as economy
minister until last year, was an architect of the original
legislation. The September bill offered subsidies if lenders
bought troubled rivals.  The decision follows speculation that more Danish banks may
fail.  Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA) , Denmark’s fifth-largest listed lender
at the end of 2011, this month said it may ask the government to
convert its hybrid capital to equity to help keep the lender
afloat. Vestjysk’s share price plunged to the lowest since at
least 1989 on Jan. 10 amid speculation it was close to
insolvency.  “In light of what’s happening with Vestjysk Bank, we have
to see if we could give some more incentives so that other banks
can take their part of the responsibility,” Mikkelsen said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We’re negotiating that right now.”  Shares in Vestjysk Bank jumped to their highest since Dec.
21, gaining 4.8 percent to 21.90 kroner as of 9:12 a.m. in
Copenhagen trading. Danish bank shares rose 0.6 percent,
outperforming the 43-member Bloomberg index of European
financials, which gained 0.3 percent.  Funding Squeeze  Most of  Denmark ’s roughly 120 banks remain cut off from
international funding markets after the February failure of
Amagerbanken A/S triggered senior creditor losses. The Nordic
country is also in the grip of a housing slump with prices set
to fall 25 percent until 2013 since their peak in 2007, the
government-backed Economic Council said in November.  Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB, the largest Nordic lender,
said Danish losses made up 40 percent of total impairments in
the fourth quarter as the country’s economy remains mired in its
twin banking and housing crises.  Vestjysk Bank said Dec. 20 the Financial Supervisory
Authority told it to raise its writedowns for 2011 by 550
million kroner ($96 million) to 950 million kroner because of
bad loans to the farming industry.  ‘Sufficient Incentives’  “We need to make sure that there are sufficient incentives
for banks to take over other banks, so that we have a going
concern rather than a concern going down,” Mikkelsen said. “We
don’t have any interest in putting state money into banks but we
do have an interest that they will survive so they can be taken
over by other banks.”  Denmark also needs to ensure any changes to the bill are
cleared with the European Union, Mikkelsen said.  The central bank is offering lenders three-year loans at
the benchmark lending rate, currently at 0.7 percent, to help
offset a funding crunch as the industry struggles to pay back
about $30 billion in state-backed debt due through 2013.  “We want to provide sufficient incentives to do the job so
that the state is as uninvolved as possible,” Mikkelsen said.
“But the bank sector is a very important part of our economic
system in Denmark, so that’s why we have to make sure it’s
healthy and working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  