-- Deutsche Post, Bpost Told by EU Regulator to Repay Up to $1.3 Billion Aid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-25T12:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/deutsche-post-belgium-s-bpost-ordered-by-eu-regulators-to-repay-state-aid.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ,  Europe ’s largest
mail carrier, and Belgium’s Bpost SA were ordered to repay
government subsidies after European Union regulators said they
broke antitrust rules.  Deutsche Post must repay between 500 million euros ($648
million) and 1 billion euros in pension subsidies, the European
Commission said today.  Bpost must repay 417 million euros after Belgian state
payments to the company exceeded the cost of delivering
newspapers and magazines. The operator said today it will
consider appealing the decision.  Regulators last year expanded an investigation into
payments from the German government to cover workers’ pension
costs at Deutsche Post that may have hampered rivals that paid
10 percent to 15 percent more in contributions.  The pension subsidies “conferred an economic advantage”
on Deutsche Post, the European Commission said today. The firm
“has effectively borne significantly lower social contributions
than its private competitors for services which were open to
competition,” such as parcel services and retail banking, the
regulator said.  A spokesman for Deutsche Post didn’t immediately return a
call asking for comment.  EU regulators approved government aid to Hellenic Post SA
and  France ’s  La Poste .  Tariff Income  The EU probe broadened the scope of an investigation that
started in 2007 into “all public measures, such as transfers of
public money and tariff income” granted to Deutsche Post and
its predecessor Postdienst since 1989. The prior probe was
prompted by complaints from Atlanta-based  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery company.  In Belgium, the commission found that annual state
compensation granted to Bpost for the delivery of newspapers and
magazines “partly exceeded the net cost” of this service. The
subsidies totaled 5.2 billion euros between 1992 and 2010, the
EU said.  Bpost will reimburse the aid before the end of June
out of its cash reserves totaling more than 1 billion euros, the
Brussels-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  The investigation was triggered in part by  Deutsche Post (DPW) 
and its DHL express-delivery unit winning a 2009 court ruling
overturning state-aid approval of some subsidies to the Belgian
post.  Belgium  in 2010 weighed an initial public offering for
Bpost, which is owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and the
Belgian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 