-- Dimensional’s Booth Says Bullishness on U.S. Makes Him Nervous
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-01-25T13:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/dimensional-s-booth-says-bullishness-on-u-s-makes-him-nervous.html
Dimensional Fund Advisors LP
Chairman David Booth said investors’ bullish view on the U.S.
makes him nervous about the growth prospects for the world’s
largest economy and that  Europe  may not fair as badly in 2012 as
people think.  “Generally, when there is a consensus that is a good time
to take the other side,” Booth, whose firm oversees $200
billion, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker today from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland. With assets prices in Europe already driven down by
negative sentiment, “the higher your expected return” may be,
he said.  “I wouldn’t be too surprised if this turned out to be a
good market,” said Booth of Austin, Texas-based Dimensional.  Investors are turning increasingly bullish on the U.S. with
48 percent of respondents to a Bloomberg poll predicting it will
be among the world’s best-performing markets this year. That’s
the highest rating for the U.S. since the poll began in 2009 and
it’s more than twice that of Brazil and  China , the markets
ranked second.  On Europe, 48 percent of respondents identified it as among
the worst markets to invest and 67 percent predict that any
improvement in the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will be
temporary, according to the poll of Bloomberg subscribers
conducted Jan. 23-24.  The potential growth of the U.S. economy depends “very
little” on who wins the presidential election in November,
Booth said. The investor said he doesn’t back Democratic
President  Barack Obama  or any of his Republican rivals, opting
to support “none of the above.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 