-- Distressed Buyers Take Wait-and-See View Amid Euro Crisis Cloud
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2012-01-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/distressed-buyers-take-wait-and-see-view-amid-euro-crisis-cloud.html
Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
concern about a double-dip recession in the U.S. have
distressed-debt investors split on whether to buy the riskiest
securities amid an expected rise in defaults, according to a
survey of 100 asset managers and traders.  Common shares  were rated the most appealing investment
opportunity by 37 percent of those surveyed and least attractive
by 34 percent, Debtwire’s North American Distressed Debt Market
Outlook 2012 showed. Investors are taking a “wait-and-see”
approach while reassessing their appetite for risk in the face
of economic instability and political and regulatory changes,
according to the survey.  Europe is seen as the most “dangerous cloud” over the
markets, with 69 percent of those surveyed naming the region’s
two-year-old crisis as the most significant factor affecting
distressed investing and trading volumes. That’s a 10 percent
jump from last year’s outlook as European finance ministers push
bondholders to provide greater relief for  Greece .  “If you go back a year, there was perhaps more hedge fund
confidence that they were going to be able to figure out and
master the European problem and profit from it,” said  Timothy
DeSieno , a New York-based partner at Bingham McCutchen LLP,
which co-sponsored the survey. “There are a few heads hanging
these days having realized the governments have gone to such
extremes that they’ve beaten hedgies back more than they might
have expected a year ago.”  Hoarding Cash  A euro zone default would cause an increase in U.S. default
rates, according to 34 percent of investors, while 31 percent
said it would result in a double-dip recession. Among the
riskiest European sovereign debt, 42 percent of respondents put
Ireland as the most important component of their strategy,
followed by Greece and  Spain .  “No matter where I go in the world, or which emerging
markets conference I’m at, the agenda is largely taken up with
Europe and what’s happening there,” DeSieno said in a telephone
interview. “CFOs are trying to hoard cash and make conservative
investment decisions, and prepare for what might be a massive
repeat of illiquidity.”  After the European debt crisis, respondents said the
likelihood of a U.S. recession is the second-most significant
factor that will affect distressed-debt investing in 2012, with
“bursts of good news on the employment and housing fronts”
failing to quell fears. More than half of respondents agreed
that the  U.S. economy  will be better served by a newly elected
administration.  Dodd-Frank Looming  With implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act looming, the
clearing requirement for standardized trades was cited by 45
percent of respondents as poised to have the most impact on
credit-default swaps markets, up from 8 percent a year ago.  The financial-services sector continued to hold the most
interest for respondents in the wake of such collapses as MF
Global Holdings Ltd. and PMI Group Inc., followed by real
estate, with 37 percent targeting the property sector from 22
percent in 2011.  “We don’t expect to see an influx of bankruptcies in
2012,” said  Scott Seamon , New York-based counsel at Bingham.  A majority of participants see debtor-in-possession lending
maintain a “backseat status,” while almost half expect to take
part in activist strategies this year, “in an effort to stir
the tranquil pot of still eerily low default rates,” according
to the survey.  Defaults will exceed 2.1 percent this year, according to 68
percent of those surveyed. Moody’s Investors Service estimates
the speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. will rise to 2.8
percent by the end of this year, from 1.8 percent at the end of
December.  “I think default rates are going to stay relatively low
especially in the first half of the year,” said Mick Solimene,
a Chicago-based managing director at  Macquarie Capital , co-
sponsor of the survey. “We’ve got a relatively light maturity
wall in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  