-- Dollar Weakens to One-Month Low as Fed Extends Rate Target to Late 2014
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-25T22:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/dollar-erases-gains-after-fed-extends-interest-rate-target-to-late-2014.html
The dollar reached the weakest level
in a month against the euro after the  Federal Reserve  extended
its pledge to hold its target for the federal funds rate low
until late 2014 amid a “highly accommodative” monetary policy.  The central bank had previously pledged to keep its  rate 
target in place until mid-2013. The U.S. currency briefly pared
losses after nine of 17 Fed officials expect borrowing costs
will remain below 1 percent at the end of 2014, the Fed
disclosed, with six officials expecting zero rates to remain
into 2015. The euro fell versus most its major counterparts
earlier after the  European Central Bank  was said to oppose
restructuring its Greek bonds. New Zealand’s dollar remained
higher versus its U.S. counterpart as the nation’s central bank
held the target lending rate at 2.5 percent.  “Late 2014 is much longer than the market had expected and
that’s why we’re seeing a negative U.S. dollar reaction,” said
 Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online
currency trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey .
“They are assuring markets that rates will remain low, assure
businesses that rates won’t go up soon and spur some economic
gains.”  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.3106 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York, after reaching $1.3121, the weakest level since Dec.
21. The U.S. currency rose 0.1 percent to 77.78 yen after rising
as much as 0.8 percent. The euro added 0.7 percent to 101.94 per
yen.  Goldman Trade  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended establishing a long
position on the euro against the dollar, targeting $1.38, with a
stop if it closes below $1.29. The shared currency will
appreciate as economic growth improves in the region, leaders
make progress on a closer fiscal compact and as the Fed keeps
 interest rates  low for longer,  Thomas Stolper , London-based
chief foreign-exchange strategist, wrote in a note to clients. A
long is a bet the price of an asset will rise.  “The Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative
stance for monetary policy,” the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said in a statement released in  Washington  today. “Economic
conditions -- including low rates of resource utilization and a
subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run -- are likely
to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate
at least through late 2014.”  FOMC Views  The projections by Federal Open Market Committee
participants, released for the first time today in Washington,
provide an unprecedented look at policy makers’ plans for the
path of the benchmark interest rate, which has remained near
zero since December 2008. An increase in 2014 would mark the
first rise in the fed funds rate since June 2006.  Policy makers also lowered their estimates for growth and
inflation in 2012, a move consistent with their statement
earlier today that interest rates will remain “exceptionally
low” through at least late 2014.  “The statement may have pushed expectations too dovish and
the fact that we have the center of mass of the expectations to
the left of 2015, that’s what’s catalyzing this reversal,” said
Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking at a news conference
after the statements, said that the option of further large-
scale bond purchases is still “on the table.”  Inflation Path  “If inflation is going to remain below target for an
extended period and employment progress” is very slow, then
“there is a case” for additional monetary stimulus, he said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 79.481. It reached 79.381,
the lowest level since Dec. 21.  “You’ve seen the dollar sell off quite aggressively on
this announcement,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research with online trading firm GFT Forex in New York. “That
they’ve extended their low rate pledge only increases the
possibility that in March or April we could see the Federal
Reserve introduce more quantitative easing.”  The yen fell against most its major counterparts after the
Ministry of Finance said  Japan ’s exports dropped 8 percent in
December from a year earlier. The median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 7.4 percent
decline. The Japanese currency is viewed as a safe haven because
the nation’s trade surplus makes the currency attractive because
it means the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  Yen Weakness  The yen has fallen 1.9 percent in the past week against
nine developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
depreciated 0.9 percent while the euro has gained 0.3 percent.  Australia ’s dollar was the best performer against the
greenback and rose to a 12-week high versus the yen after one of
the  Reserve Bank ’s measures of underlying inflation gained more
than estimated, boosting speculation the central bank may have
less scope to cut borrowing costs.  Australia’s dollar climbed 1.2 percent to 82.43 yen after
earlier advancing to 82.48, the highest level since Nov. 1. The
Aussie dollar was 1 percent higher at $1.0597.  The MSCI Global  Index (SPX)  of stocks rose 0.6 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent.  While the ECB faces pressure to join private-sector
investors in taking losses on Greek securities, the central bank
sees this as potentially damaging to confidence in the
institution, according to two people familiar with the Governing
Council’s stance, who declined to be identified because the
matter is confidential. The accord is tied to a second financing
package for the cash-strapped country, which faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Greek Debt  “The bond holders seem to be splitting hairs about taking
a big loss or a bigger loss that is bringing on another wave of
nervousness to the market,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in New York. “By this point
we don’t think that a Greek default will send  Europe  in to a
tailspin so the euro won’t be tumbling to $1.20.”  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro against the
dollar increased for a fourth day. Risk-reversal rates for
three-month options on the euro versus the dollar were negative
1.77 percent today compared with negative 1.65 percent
yesterday. It has climbed from as low as negative 4.4 percent in
November.  New Zealand ’s central bank left interest rates at a record
low as inflation slows and concern mounts that Europe’s debt
crisis may stall global demand for the nation’s commodity
exports. The kiwi rallied 0.6 percent to 81.68 per greenback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  