-- Don’t Criticize Romney’s Lawful Taxes, Carlyle Co-Founder Rubenstein Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-01-25T09:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/don-t-criticize-romney-s-taxes-carlyle-group-s-rubenstein-says.html
David Rubenstein , the co-founder of
private-equity firm  Carlyle Group (CG) , said Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  shouldn’t be criticized for the taxes he
pays lawfully.  Romney said this week that he earned $21.6 million in 2010
and used the preferential rate on investment income and
charitable deductions to pay a 13.9 percent tax rate, a smaller
share of his earnings than most top wage earners. The disclosure
drew criticism from his rivals, who said the former private-
equity dealmaker enriched himself at the cost of corporations
and their employees.  “You change the law and they’ll pay the taxes,”
Rubenstein said today at a panel discussion organized by Time
magazine at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos,
 Switzerland . “Romney said, and I’m not his defender, he’s
paying whatever the law required. If you change the law, change
the law, but don’t criticize him for paying the taxes that the
law requires him to pay.”  Romney’s wealth, generated from his career at Bain Capital
LLC, has figured prominently in the Republican race at a time
when the  U.S. economy  is still struggling to replace the jobs
that were lost in a recession fueled by Wall Street’s credit
crisis.  Rubenstein, a former staffer of ex-President  Jimmy Carter ,
is himself a wealthy dealmaker. He and his Washington-based
private equity firm’s two other founders received a combined
$413 million last year. Carlyle isn’t planning to create a
compensation committee as it prepares to go public, leaving
decisions regarding the founders’ pay in their own hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  