-- Dow, Gevo, Google, EA, Louboutin, Kohler, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-25T00:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/dow-gevo-google-ea-louboutin-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  won an appeals
court ruling that upholds a $61.7 million patent-infringement
verdict against  Nova Chemicals Corp. (NCX)  from 2010 related to
plastic used in grocery bags.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington rejected Nova’s arguments that its Surpass plastic
didn’t infringe two Dow patents, and that the patents were
invalid. The opinion was posted on the court’s website
yesterday.  Nova, owned by Abu Dhabi-based International Petroleum
Investment Co., was accused of using Dow inventions for polymers
that are thinner and stronger than conventional plastic. The
Federal Circuit said the patents clearly described what Dow said
it invented, and that the verdict of infringement “is supported
by substantial evidence.”  Nova also had argued that Midland, Michigan-based Dow
transferred the patents to a holding company for tax purposes.
The majority of the three-judge panel said the trial judge was
correct to rule that the patents weren’t part of the creation of
that holding company. Circuit Judge Jimmie Reyna said he would
have sided with Nova on that issue, and thrown out the verdict.  The case is Dow Chemical Co. v. Nova Chemicals Corp., 10-
1526, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Dow Chemical Co. v. Nova
Chemicals Corp., 05cv737, U.S. District Court for the District
of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Gevo Sues DuPont, Butamax Over U.S. Patent for Biofuels  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a maker of biofuels, sued  DuPont Co. (DD)  and its
business partner  Butamax Advanced Biofuels (0031863D)  in federal court in
Delaware alleging infringement of a new patent for alcohol
fermentation processes.  The disputed patent 8,101,808, issued yesterday to
Englewood, Colorado-based Gevo, covers methods for alcohol
recovery at reduced cost, according to its written description.  Gevo contends Butamax -- a joint venture between
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont and the U.K.’s BP Plc -- and
DuPont “perform the methods described” in the patent without
Gevo’s authorization and should pay unspecified damages after a
jury trial.  The companies have been sparring over biofuel patent
rights. Last year, Gevo asked the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to review the validity of a Butamax patent for a fuel
additive, questioning who was first to invent the technology.  The case is Gevo v. Butamax, 12-cv-070, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Faces EU Antitrust Complaint From French Shopping Website  Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces an antitrust complaint at the European
Commission from  Twenga , a French shopping-comparison website,
which says the world’s largest search engine may have abused a
dominant position.  Bastien Duclaux, chief executive officer of Paris-based
Twenga, said Google’s services “should not benefit from any
privileged treatment” in the company’s search rankings. He said
Google updates since late 2010 have demoted Twenga in favor of
Google’s own shopping-comparison service.  The EU is investigating Google over claims it discriminated
against other services in its search results and stopped some
websites from accepting rival ads. Microsoft Corp. and shopping-
comparison site Foundem are among companies that asked the
agency to examine the Mountain View, California-based search
engine.  The European Commission received the complaint from Twenga
Jan. 23, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
regulator, said in an e-mail. Al Verney, a spokesman for Google
in Brussels, declined to comment.  Google has “applied several algorithms last year and very
recently in order to penalize these kind of products in the
search results,” Duclaux said in a telephone interview.
“Twenga lost more than 30 percent of its audience during the
course of August.”  Duclaux said Google may also tweak the so-called quality
score of websites to demote rival advertising platforms. The
score helps set ad prices for the AdWords advertising program.  Google  said  in February that updates to the search engine
were intended to favor “high quality sites” with “original
content and information such as research, in-depth reports,
thoughtful analysis and so on.”  Electronic Arts Seeks “Trouble Makers’ Trademark Registrations  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , publisher of the Sims and Madden NFL
computer games, may be headed in a new direction, if a new
trademark filing is any indication.  The Redwood, California-based company filed two
applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 18
to register “Trouble Makers” as a mark to be used for computer
games.  Louboutin Seeks to Overturn Ruling on YSL’s Red-Soled Shoes  Louboutin SA has turned to an appeals court to stop Yves
Saint Laurent America from selling red-soled shoes that it
claims violates its trademark.  Louboutin is asking the panel to overturn U.S. District
Judge  Victor Marrero ’s decision in August rejecting the
company’s bid to prevent Yves Saint Laurent from selling shoes
Louboutin said were identical to its own. At a hearing following
that ruling, Marrero said he would defer deciding whether to
cancel Louboutin’s red-sole trademark until the appeals court
ruled on the injunction.  “We don’t claim shades of red,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer
for Louboutin, told the three appeals judges yesterday in
 Manhattan . “We don’t claim anything but the mark as
registered.”  The judges said they will rule later.  Yves Saint Laurent, the company named for the designer who
died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles “long
before Mr. Louboutin began using them,” David Bernstein, a
lawyer for the company, told Marrero at a hearing in July. YSL
is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns other luxury brands
including Gucci.  “Our concern is, as a fashion house making monochromatic
shoes, we should be able to continue doing that,” Bernstein
said in court yesterday. The monochromatic shoe is “the DNA of
the brand,” he said.  Marrero said in his August opinion that “because in the
fashion industry color serves ornamental and aesthetic functions
vital to robust competition, the court finds that Louboutin is
unlikely to be able to prove that its red outsole brand is
entitled to trademark protection.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, said in a lawsuit
filed in April that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-sole footwear
“threaten to mislead the public.”  Christian Louboutin , the designer for whom the company is
named, got the idea for the red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes. Court
papers state that Louboutin’s red soles were introduced in 1992
and have been on all of its luxury shoes since then. They have
been popularized by actresses like Sarah Jessica Parker in the
TV show “Sex and the City.”  On the website of high-fashion department store  Barneys ,
Louboutin’s red-soled high-heel shoes are priced from $595 to
$4,645 a pair.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the lawsuit.  The case is Louboutin v. Yves Saint Laurent America, 11-
3303, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Kohler Sued by General Power Systems Over Brochure Statements  Kohler Co. (KHCO) , a maker of bathroom fixtures, was sued over
claims in one of its product brochures by a maker of power
generators.  The lawsuit was filed Jan. 23 in federal court in  Milwaukee 
by  Generac Holding Systems (GNRC) ’ Generac Power Systems unit. Generac,
based in Waukesha,  Wisconsin , previously sued Kohler in October
2010, accusing the fixture company of infringing patent
7,230,345.  The patent covers a method of operating a standby electric
generator. The 2010 suit is on hold, according to court papers.  In the new suit, Generac said Kohler is distributing a
product brochure that unfavorably compares Generac’s 20kW
generator to Kohler products. Statements made in the brochure
about Generac’s product are false and misleading, and are likely
to influence consumers, Generac said.  Generac asked the court to bar Kohler from making false
statements about the products and to order a recall of all
allegedly offending promotional material. Additionally, the
company asked for all of Kohler’s profits flowing from the
alleged disparagement, and for money damages, with extra damages
to punish the fixture-maker for its conduct.  Kohler, based in Kohler, Wisconsin, didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Generac is represented by  Adam L. Brookman ,  Michael T.
Griggs  and Kyle M. Costello of  Boyle Fredrickson SC (0042595D)  of
Milwaukee.  The case is General Power Systems Inc., v. Kohler C., 2:12-
cv-000676-RTR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Wisconsin (Milwaukee). The patent case is General Power Systems
Inc. v. Kohler Co., 2:10-cv-00947-RTR, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom in Custody as  New Zealand  Awaits U.S. Extradition Request  Kim Dotcom, the founder of  Megaupload.com , was detained in
New Zealand on charges of copyright infringement conspiracy
under a U.S. request for provisional arrest ahead of a formal
extradition request.  The U.S. sought the arrest of Dotcom, who was held after a
Jan. 20 helicopter raid on his leased Auckland mansion, before
an extradition request, Elizabeth Collins, a spokeswoman at New
Zealand’s Ministry of Justice, said in an e-mail yesterday.
Requests for provisional arrests are made when there’s concern a
suspect will flee, according to New Zealand’s extradition law.  Dotcom is sought in the U.S. where he was indicted on
charges his file-sharing website was part of a $175 million
copyright-infringement conspiracy with pirated film and music
files being exchanged. Copyright law is complex and extradition
on copyright offenses hasn’t been tested in any international
court yet, according to Rick Shera, a New Zealand lawyer who
specializes in  information technology .  “This is, as far as we all know, the first case in which
this type of activity has really been brought to court in a way
which both parties will have their arguments heard,” Shera, a
partner at Lowndes Jordan in Auckland, said. “The dividing line
between a site which is providing these sorts of services
legitimately and one which is providing them illegally is a fine
one, and no one quite knows where the line is.”  Dotcom, Megaupload’s German founder who legally changed his
family name from Schmitz, was charged in the U.S. because some
of the site’s servers were based in Virginia and  Washington ,
according to U.S.  Justice Department ’s indictment.  “The next step in this particular case is for New Zealand
to receive a formal request for extradition,” Collins said.
“In accordance with the treaty on extradition between the
 United States  and New Zealand, the United States has 45 days
from the date of the arrest to provide this request.”  New Zealand prosecutors must show Dotcom is accused of an
offense that would be punishable by at least 12 months in jail
in both the U.S. and New Zealand, according to the 1999
Extradition Act.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Kasowitz Hires IP Litigation Michael Eisenberg From Weil Gotshal  Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP  hired Michael
Eisenberg for its  intellectual-property  practice, the New York-
based firm said in a  statement .  Eisenberg , a litigator, joins from  New York ’s  Weil Gotshal
& Manges LLP (1127L) . He has represented clients in patent, copyright
and trade secret disputes involving semiconductors, computer
hardware and software. He has also appeared in U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office proceedings.  He previously served as a judicial clerk to Judge Timothy
Dyk of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent cases.  Eisenberg has an undergraduate degree in physics from
Washington University, a master’s degree in physics from Florida
State University and a law degree from George Washington
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 