-- The Way We're Working Isn't Working: Schwartz
-- B y   T o n y   S c h w a r t z
-- 2012-01-25T16:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/the-way-we-re-working-isn-t-working-schwartz.html
     I arrived in Davos several hours ago, amid daunting
traffic, driving snow, and intense security, to participate in
my first  World Economic Forum .  Honestly, I'm kind of amazed to be here.  Nine years ago, when I launched The Energy Project during
an economic boom, it was nearly impossible to find senior
leaders open to the idea that demand was exceeding people's
capacity, and that it was critical to the bottom line to teach
employees new ways to manage their energy more skillfully.  Today, there is a dawning recognition among leaders I
meet across the corporate world — as well as in schools and
hospitals and government — that we're in an accelerating
energy crisis, both personal and organizational.  The way we're working isn't working.  Employees around the world are working longer
hours, hunkering down at their desks answering emails, or
attending back to back meetings, and spending less time
thinking deeply, taking care of themselves and living the rest
of their lives.  Across organizations, nearly every survey suggests that
the vast majority of employees don't feel fully engaged at
work, valued for their contributions, or freed and trusted to
do what they do best. Instead, they feel weighed down by
multiple demands and distractions and they often don't derive
much meaning or satisfaction from their work.  That's a tragedy for millions of people and a huge lost
opportunity for organizations.  What excites me is that we may have reached a turning
point. It's not so surprising when the most progressive and
forward-thinking companies lead the way. Our pioneering
clients include Silicon Valley companies such as
Google, Apple, Intel, and Ebay. But more recently, we've also
begun to work with more traditional companies such as Coke and
Bristol Meyers Squibb.  The fact that I got invited to Davos is perhaps the most
important indicator that the mainstream is ready to address
these issues.  Tomorrow, for example, I'll be facilitating a workshop
that asks the question "How can organizations build more
creative, engaging and energizing workplaces?" I'll be joined
by five CEOs, among them George Halvorson, who heads the
health care provider  Kaiser Permanente , Vincent Forlenza who
runs Becton Dickinson, the pharmaceutical company, and  Tim
Brown , the CEO of IDEO, the design and innovation firm.  Over the course of the rest of this week, there are a
dozen other panels on similar topics. Dan Goleman, for
example, is leading a panel on emotional intelligence, and
Mehmet Oz is running one called "Preventing Burnout," which
includes two leading experts on meditation.  In a wonderful piece of perversity, the burnout session
is being held from 8 to 10 p.m. on Friday night. Davos is
notorious for days that begin early, end late, and don't
include much sleep.  I don't kid myself that the super-charged CEOs and world
leaders who attend this event are going to wake up overnight
to the recognition that rest and renewal and doing one thing
at a time are not only healthy practices, but also fuel more
sustainable performance.  I'm convinced there is a potential win-win in all this
for organizations and for the people they employ. It's built
around creating a new kind of value exchange.  Rather than trying to forever get more out of their
employees, organizations are better served by investing in
better meeting their people's core needs —
physical, emotional, mental and spiritual — so they're
freed, fueled, and inspired to bring more of themselves to
work every day.  Put simply, more satisfied and engaged employees perform
better. In a Towers Watson study of some 90,000 employees
across eighteen countries, companies with the most engaged
employees reported a 19 percent increase in operating
income, and a 28 percent growth in earnings per share.
Companies whose employees had the lowest level of engagement
had a 32 percent decline in operating income, and an 11
percent drop in earnings.  My goal this week is to begin to collaborate with some of
the world's top influencers to launch a real conversation
about transforming the workplace — and to win some converts.  I'll be sharing my experience at Davos on our website
, and I'll report back here on what I've learned next week. In
the meantime, please share your thoughts and insights.
Together, let's change the way the world works.  Tony Schwartz is the president and CEO of The Energy
Project and the author of "Be Excellent at Anything."
 