-- Eased Immigration Laws May Spur Growth, U.S. Chamber Report Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-01-25T16:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/eased-immigration-laws-may-spur-growth-u-s-chamber-report-says.html
The U.S. needs to ease restrictions
on immigrants who plan to open businesses, and create a separate
visa for potential entrepreneurs, according to a report by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Current immigration laws make it difficult for people to
enter the U.S. and start a business, according to the report,
released today by the Chamber and the Immigration Policy Center
of the American Immigration Council. Expansion of the visa
program would also aid companies’ access to foreign-born
graduates of U.S. universities, helping economic growth, the
authors of the report said.  Immigrant entrepreneurs established 18 percent of the
Fortune 500 companies, according to a June 2011  report  from the
Partnership for a New American Economy, a group of business
leaders and mayors that advocates for immigration reform. Those
companies, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
generated $1.7 trillion in revenue in 2010 and had 3.7 million
employees worldwide, the report said.  “They are going to contribute and succeed somewhere -- why
shouldn’t it be the  United States ?”  Thomas Donohue , the
Chamber’s chief executive officer, said in a Jan. 12 speech in
Washington.  Immigrants are more likely than native-born U.S. workers to
start their own business or be self-employed, according to the
Chamber of Commerce study. Of naturalized citizens, 5.1 percent
were employed by their own business, compared with 3.7 percent
of the native-born citizens, the report found. In  Massachusetts ,
immigrants were 14 percent of the population in 2008 and started
61 percent of the businesses, the report found.  Legislation Stymied  Efforts at revising immigration laws have been stymied in
Congress, including efforts to let temporary foreign workers
enter the U.S. and to help illegal immigrants advance toward
citizenship. Changing the visa program has gotten lost in the
debate, according to the Chamber, the nation’s largest business
group.  “I’m frustrated by it,” Randel Johnson, the Chamber’s
senior vice president for labor, immigration and employee
benefits, said in an interview. “But our reaction is to try to
pick off the pits and pieces” of reform, “and this is pretty
uncontroversial, though anything with immigration has some
controversy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  