-- Lebanese Economy May Grow at More Than 4%, Bank Governor Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/lebanese-economy-may-grow-at-more-than-4-bank-governor-says.html
Lebanon’s economy could grow more
than 4 percent this year if the country is politically stable
and unrest subsides in the  Middle East , central bank Governor
Riad Salameh said.  “We can get over that if we have the proper conditions,
political stability and less tension in the region,” Salameh
said in an interview at his office in Beirut late yesterday.  Domestic political uncertainty in Lebanon last year, amid
popular uprisings and unrest in Syria, Bahrain, Yemen, Tunisia,
Egypt and  Libya , curbed Lebanese economic growth last year to
the  slowest pace since 2006 . The economy grew about 2 percent in
2011 after growing 7.5 percent in 2010, Salameh said. The
 International Monetary Fund  had forecast growth of between 1
percent and 2 percent for last year.  “Political shocks and instability in the first half of
2011 led to a significant drop in  consumer confidence  in Lebanon
in the first nine months of last year,” said  Nassib Ghobril ,
chief economist at Beirut-based Byblos Bank SAL. “Political
stability would help improve consumer sentiment and, therefore,
support economic growth.”  Still, total deposits at all Lebanese banks increased 7
percent last year to $120 billion, in addition to deposits at
Lebanese banks operating outside the country that amount to $30
billion, Salameh said. The stability of Lebanon’s pound, pegged
at about 1,500 to the dollar since 1993, and an  interest rate  on
Lebanese pound deposits that reached as high as 8 percent in
2008, have attracted foreign inflows from the country’s
expatriate community, averaging more than $1 billion a month.  ’Potential for Growth’  “Overall the activity of last year was satisfactory given
a difficult situation in the region and special events in
Lebanon also,” Salameh said. “The potential for growth is here
because the liquidity is available,” he said, adding that
infrastructure projects and the exploration of gas and oil “can
spur confidence in the economy.”  Lending in Lebanon increased 14 percent last year with $40
billion loaned to the private sector, Salameh said. The central
bank has $32 billion in foreign currency reserves in addition to
gold valued at about $15 billion, he said.  Inflation last year reached 4 percent and is forecast to
reach about 6 percent in 2012, if commodity and oil prices don’t
increase further this year, Salameh said.  Lebanese banks have limited exposure to the political
turmoil in  Syria , Salameh said.  “The stability of the banking sector is not at stake.
Lebanon has gone through various difficult times,” he said. The
central bank has “taken all the necessary measures, and is
doing the necessary stress tests,” Salameh said. “Even if
there are no losses, general provisions are being constituted in
the balance sheets of these banks. We are well prepared if the
crisis continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  