-- ECB Should Join Greek Bond Swap for Debt Viability, Nomura Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-01-25T13:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ecb-should-join-greek-bond-swap-for-debt-viability-nomura-says.html
The  European Central Bank  needs to
take part in a Greek debt swap with private creditors for the
country to succeed in reducing its debt to a sustainable level,
Nomura International Plc economists said.  If  Greece  introduces collective-action clauses into bond
contracts, debt held by the ECB would probably be included in
the swap agreed upon at an Oct. 26 summit of European Union
leaders, London-based Nomura economists Dimitris Drakopoulos and
Lefteris Farmakis said in a note today.  “If the ECB is excluded from this exchange, attaining a
120 percent debt to gross domestic product ratio by 2020
requires deeper face-value reduction in the new bonds,” the
economists said. “Such an option, however, goes beyond the
October agreement and is likely to require a time-consuming
redesign of the whole program. This is likely to overrun the
deadline set by the March redemption.”  An alternative could be for the European Financial
Stability Facility to swap the ECB’s bonds after buying them
from the central bank at cost, or about 80 percent of face
value, Drakopoulos and Farmakis said.  The Oct. 26 summit set out a framework for the Greek debt
swap, with details such as the coupon and maturity of new bonds
in the exchange to be decided in talks between Greece, private
lenders, the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
The framework stipulates that the exchange should be voluntary,
there should be a 50 percent face value reduction in the nominal
value of the bonds and sets the 120 percent debt-to-GDP target.  The ECB holds Greek  government bonds  with a face value of
50 billion euros ($65 billion), marked at purchase price with an
exposure of no more than 40 billion euros, Nomura estimates.
Private creditors hold about 205 billion euros of Greek
government bonds. Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment
on March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  