-- Germany Backs ECB in Rejecting Lagarde’s Call to Take Losses on Greek Debt
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-25T15:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ecb-said-to-oppose-losses-on-its-greek-debt.html
A senior member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government rejected suggestions that the  European
Central Bank  take losses on its Greek debt holdings, backing the
ECB in a dispute with the  International Monetary Fund .  “I can’t imagine that European politicians would allow
third parties to make such an indecent claim on our central
bank,” Michael Meister, the deputy floor leader for Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats  and the party’s ranking finance spokesman,
said today in an interview. “That contradicts our philosophy.”  While the ECB faces pressure to join private-sector
investors in accepting losses on Greek debt, the central bank
sees any participation as risking damaging confidence in the
institution, two people familiar with the Governing Council’s
stance said. The debt was acquired for monetary policy purposes
and the ECB is firmly opposed to any restructuring, they said on
condition of anonymity because the matter is confidential.  Christine Lagarde , a former French finance minister who is
the IMF’s managing director, told reporters in Paris today that
European governments and other public holders of Greek debt may
have to increase support if private creditors don’t go far
enough. Talks on a Greek debt swap that must be resolved to free
up more aid for the debt-wracked nation have yet to be
concluded.  “The risk is that by putting the ECB on board, as the IMF
asks, this could result in debt-swap negotiations restarting
from scratch, which could mean additional delay to an already
over-stretched timetable,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  Greek Talks  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said it would be a “good
idea” for the ECB to accept losses on Greek bonds.  “We always proposed this should be done and it will also
help create an atmosphere of equal treatment,” he said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “The ECB bought these
bonds at a discount and I think at least this discount could be
accrued in favor of  Greece .”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 19 that the ECB is
“not party” to ongoing discussions between the Greek
government and the private sector. The ECB is in talks regarding
a potential swap of its Greek bonds that would ease the
country’s debt load and avoid losses at the central bank, the
New York Times reported today, citing unnamed officials.  An ECB spokesman declined to comment.  Deeper Losses  Meister urged private bondholders to reach a deal, saying
that it is “in the interest of private holders of Greek bonds
to accept the terms of a writedown.”  Greek bondholders meet today in Paris to discuss their
response to European officials’ demands that they take deeper
losses on their holdings of Greek debt to help bring the
nation’s borrowings to a sustainable level.  Institute of International Finance Managing Director
 Charles Dallara , who’s negotiating on behalf of the bondholders,
said yesterday that all parties, public and private, should
contribute to cutting Greece’s debt. Dallara said that private
investors hold only about 60 percent of Greece’s 350 billion
euros ($454 billion) of debt. The IIF is a Washington-based
industry group with more than 450 members.  “It is important for all parties to recognize how much we
all have at stake here and work together and cooperatively to
find a solution,” Dallara told reporters in Zurich. “Some
might minimize the risk of an involuntary debt exchange and
point to other cases such as  Argentina . I would caution against
that attitude.”  Latest Offer  European officials and Greece’s private bondholders agreed
in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of
more than 200 billion euros of debt by voluntarily exchanging
outstanding bonds for new securities, with a goal of reducing
Greece’s borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020. The accord is tied to a second financing package for the
cash-strapped country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20.  The latest offer from the IIF would lead to a loss of about
69 percent on the net-present value of Greek bonds, two people
with knowledge of the talks said. The new 30-year bonds would
carry an average coupon of about 4.25 percent, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  “If the level of Greece’s privately held debt is not
sufficiently renegotiated, then public creditors, holders of
Greek debt, will also have to participate in the financial
effort,” Lagarde told journalists in Paris.  ECB Guarantee  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels signaled
they would push Greece’s private investors to accept bigger
losses, with coupons below 3.5 percent for debt to be serviced
until 2020 and below 4 percent over the 30 years of the next
Greek package.  The ECB has opposed any “involuntary” restructuring of
Greek debt that would trigger the payment of credit default
swaps, and extracted a 35 billion-euro guarantee for bonds held
as collateral on its books from European governments last year.  Asking private investors to take a loss on Greek holdings
has proved “costly for the  euro zone ” as it sends a message
that “euro zone sovereign debt should no longer be considered a
safe asset with the implicit promise that it would be repaid in
full,” ECB Governing Council member  Athanasios Orphanides  wrote
in the Financial Times on Jan. 5, calling for the plan to be
jettisoned.  ECB Holdings  The ECB began buying Greek government debt in May 2010 as
the sovereign debt crisis flared, saying the move was needed to
maintain the transmission of monetary policy as bond yields
soared. It now holds about 36 billion euros of the nation’s
bonds,  Barclays Capital  estimated in a Jan. 6 report.  Greece’s creditors won’t help the country get a handle on
its debt by taking losses on sovereign bonds, according to the
Kiel Institute for the World Economy. Greece’s debt load will be
“unbearably high” even if public creditors join investors in
taking 50 percent writedowns, the institute, which advises the
German government, said in a study published on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  