-- Medvedev Says He May Seek Russian Presidency Again in Future
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-25T15:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/medvedev-says-he-may-seek-russian-presidency-again-in-future-1-.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev , who is
supporting Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in  Russia ’s March
presidential election, said he doesn’t rule out returning to the
Kremlin in the future.  Medvedev said some of the tens of thousands of protesters
who rallied in Moscow and other cities against the results of
December’s parliamentary elections may have wanted him to run
for a second term.  “I never said that I won’t ever run again” for president,
he told journalism students in Moscow today. “I am only 46
years old. That’s not too old to give up any future political
battles.”  Medvedev, who took over as president in 2008 because the
Russian constitution prevented Putin from serving three
consecutive terms in the Kremlin, agreed in September to step
aside to allow his mentor’s comeback. Close aides of Medvedev
had urged him to seek a second mandate and his economic adviser,
 Arkady Dvorkovich , expressed disappointment at the decision to
give up the presidency.  Putin, 59, who is standing for a six-year term, promised
Medvedev the prime minister’s job. At the time, Medvedev said
he’d agreed to cede to Putin because he was a more popular
politician.  Medvedev’s ambitions to regain the top job probably won’t
be realized after claims of mass fraud in the December elections
sparked the biggest demonstrations in more than a decade, said
Yevgeny Minchenko, head of the Moscow-based Institute of
Political Expertise.  “The circle around Medvedev hopes he will work as prime
minister for six years and in 2018 will be a candidate for the
presidency,” Minchenko said in a phone interview. “But the
political situation is changing too fast, and Medvedev has few
chances of keeping the premier’s job for six years and retaining
the elite’s support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  