-- Egyptians Prepare for Third Day of Protest After Revolution’s Anniversary
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-01-26T22:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/egypt-crowds-celebrate-anti-mubarak-uprising-protest-army-rule.html
Egyptian activists called for
marches and rallies in central Cairo to protest military rule,
two days after the country marked the anniversary of the revolt
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  Protesters camped overnight in  Tahrir Square , the focus of
the mass rallies that ended the former president’s three-decade
rule. Tens of thousands filled the plaza on Jan. 25, some
calling on the ruling generals to speed up the transfer of power
to civilians, others celebrating the anniversary of the start of
protests that ousted Mubarak.  “A huge turnout is expected in Tahrir,” Gamal Eid, a
human rights lawyer, said by phone late yesterday. “Such
protests are important to show the army that ceding power to
civilians is paramount to all Egyptians and that it can’t breach
promises it had made, as it did before. It’s also a clear
message to the parliament that people will turn against it if it
doesn’t meet their demands.”  Seven weeks of elections, in which Islamist groups led by
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice party took almost
three-quarters of the seats in parliament, have failed to quiet
activists organizing the anti-military rallies. Protesters
accuse the army of mismanaging the country’s transition and
using tactics similar to Mubarak’s regime to stifle dissent. The
military council has said it will cede power when a president is
elected by the end of June.  Brotherhood’s Demands  The Brotherhood hasn’t lent its support to demands that the
generals immediately leave. While the anniversary was an
occasion for “celebrations, not protests,” the group called
for “the rest of the revolution’s demands to be realized as
soon as possible,” spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said ahead of the
anniversary.  Egypt ’s elected assembly held its inaugural session Jan.
23. One of its first tasks is to select a committee that will
write the new constitution.  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index  rose yesterday to become the
world’s second-best performer as foreign investors returned
after yesterday’s peaceful rallies. The EGX 30 soared 7.2
percent to 4,432.99 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the most
since February 2008 and the second-best after Cyprus among 91
global indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Still, the index is down 30 percent in the past 12 months.
The unrest has deterred tourists and foreign investors and
curbed economic growth to 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through
June, the slowest pace in at least a decade. Tourist arrivals
fell 33 percent last year, while international reserves are at
the lowest level since March 2005.  IMF Request  Egypt formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to support the economy.
The army-appointed government will also invite a mission from
the  World Bank  to discuss a $500 million loan and another from
the  African Development Bank  for talks on a loan of the same
amount, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation Fayza
Aboulnaga told reporters yesterday in Cairo.  Ahead of the anniversary, the ruling military council
pledged to release prisoners and partially lift the country’s
state of emergency, which extends the powers of the police, with
the exception of “crimes of thuggery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  