-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Is Fined $11.2 Million by U.K. in Punch Insider Case
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-01-25T18:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/einhorn-s-greenlight-fined-11-2-million-by-u-k-over-punch-tavern-trading.html
David Einhorn  and Greenlight Capital
Inc. were fined 7.2 million pounds ($11.2 million) by the U.K.’s
financial regulator for trading on inside information in  Punch
Taverns Plc (PUB)  in 2009.  Einhorn, Greenlight’s 43-year-old chairman, was told of
Punch Taverns’s plan to sell equity by a broker representing the
company, the  Financial Services Authority  said in an e-mailed
statement today. He then sold more than 11 million Punch Tavern
shares over the following four days, avoiding losses of about
5.8 million pounds for the fund, the regulator said.  “The big name and the big number” are what the FSA wants,
 Louise Hodges , a financial-crime defense lawyer at Kingsley
Napley LLP in London, said in a telephone interview today. “It
looks like it’s more a case of he should have known, rather than
he did know,” his actions were illegal.  Greenlight said the market abuse was “inadvertent” and
the regulator agreed it wasn’t deliberate or reckless. The fine
won’t come out of Greenlight funds, the New York-based firm said
in a statement.  The FSA is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since the World War II. The fine against Einhorn,
3.64 million pounds, is the second-largest civil penalty levied
against an individual by the FSA after a $9.6 million fine
against Dubai-based investor Rameshkumar Goenka in November.  ‘Arduous Fight’  “We believe that this action is unjust and inconsistent
with the law and with prior FSA enforcement,” Einhorn said in
the Greenlight statement. “However, rather than continue an
arduous fight, we have decided to put this matter behind us.”  The $7.8 billion Greenlight Capital LP fund returned
2.9 percent last year and has produced annualized returned of
20 percent since the fund started in May 1996, according to a
letter sent to investors.  Einhorn, who profited from a bet against Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. before the firm collapsed in 2008, called for
Microsoft Corp.’s board to replace Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  in May. He offered $200 million for a 33 percent stake
in the New York Mets baseball team last year before withdrawing
the bid and finished 18th in the  World Series  of Poker’s main
event in 2006.  “Einhorn is an experienced professional with a high
profile in the industry,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s
acting enforcement chief. “We expect someone in his position to
be able to identify inside information when he receives it and
to act appropriately. His failure to do so is a serious
breach.”  Matter of Minutes  Einhorn heard in a June 2009 telephone conference call that
Punch Taverns was about to sell additional equity, the FSA said.
Einhorn gave instructions to Greenlight to sell Punch shares “a
matter of minutes” after the call ended, according to the
regulator. The hedge fund reduced its holdings in Punch shares
from 13.3 percent of its outstanding shares to 8.9 percent over
the next four days.  Greenlight, wholly-owned by Einhorn, had around 31
employees in 2009, according to the U.K. regulator.  An outside spokeswoman for Punch declined to comment on the
FSA fine and refused to provide her name citing company policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 