-- Televisa, Iusacell Await Word After Antitrust Verdict Reached
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-25T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/televisa-iusacell-await-word-after-antitrust-verdict-reached.html
Grupo Televisa SAB,  Mexico ’s largest
broadcaster, is awaiting word on whether the nation’s antitrust
agency has approved its planned investment of $1.6 billion in
mobile-phone carrier  Grupo Iusacell SA. (CEL*)   While the Federal Competition Commission reached a decision
last night, it can’t announce the verdict until it has legally
notified the parties involved, the agency said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The agency has until Feb. 7 to complete that
task, it said.  The transaction would give Televisa entry into the market
for wireless service, escalating its rivalry with billionaire
 Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in Mexico. The companies already
compete for Internet and home-phone customers. Televisa has
sought approval since April, when it announced the deal.  Under the terms of the operation Televisa would get a 50
percent stake in Iusacell. Televisa agreed to pay an additional
$400 million to Iusacell shareholders if Ebitda reaches a
cumulative $3.47 billion between January 2011 and Dec. 31, 2015.
Iusacell had Ebitda of about $150 million in 2009, according to
Barclays Capital Plc.  Iusacell, owned by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , has sought
the investment to improve its coverage and services after
failing to lure customers from  America Movil , which has 70
percent of Mexican subscribers. Without Televisa’s money,
Iusacell could disappear, Francisco Borrego, Salinas’s chief
legal counsel, said in a Jan. 12 interview.  Officials for Televisa and Iusacell who can’t be named
under company policy had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  