-- Televisa’s $1.6 Billion Iusacell Deal Rejected by Mexico, Universal Says
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-25T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/televisa-s-1-6-billion-iusacell-deal-rejected-by-mexico-universal-says.html
Grupo Televisa SAB’s plan to acquire
a 50 percent stake in  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*)  for $1.6 billion was
rejected by Mexico’s antitrust agency after a nine-month review,
El Universal and Dow Jones Newswires reported.  The Federal Competition Commission’s board voted 3-2
against the deal yesterday, the newspaper said today on its
 website , citing unnamed sources close to the process. The
companies will be able to ask the agency to review its decision,
the newspaper said. Dow Jones also  reported  the deal was
rejected, citing an unnamed person close to the transaction.  If the deal is rejected, it would hinder Televisa’s
aspirations to enter the mobile-phone market and escalate its
rivalry with billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB.
Televisa also has money at stake, having already spent about
$1.2 billion as of September to acquire convertible debt it
planned to turn into Iusacell shares once the transaction was
approved by the government.  “There won’t be an official response until we’ve been
notified and have reviewed the result, as required by various
regulations of public companies,” Televisa said in an e-mailed
statement. An Iusacell official had no immediate comment. The
antitrust agency said last night in a statement it must notify
the parties before it can officially announce the vote.  Contradicting Reports  Televisa dropped 2.1 percent to 54.14 pesos at the close in
 Mexico  City, the lowest price since Nov. 29. The shares fell 8.1
percent last year.  Two other publications contradicted the reports of the
deal’s rejection.  Proceso  magazine and Dario Celis, a columnist
at  Excelsior  newspaper, said the deal was approved with
unspecified conditions.  Iusacell, Mexico’s third-biggest mobile-phone carrier, may
not survive without the investment, its lawyer Francisco Borrego
said earlier this month. Iusacell is closely held by billionaire
 Ricardo Salinas , who also controls TV Azteca SAB, the second-
biggest Mexican broadcaster behind Televisa.  An alliance would bring the nation’s two biggest over-the-
air TV networks closer together and could harm competition, said
critics including the Mexican Association for the Right to
Information. Televisa and Salinas’s group had said they would
continue to compete aggressively in broadcast TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  