-- Elizabeth Taylor’s Hals Fetches $2.1 Million at Christie’s
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-01-25T21:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/elizabeth-taylor-s-hals-stars-in-194-million-old-master-sales.html
A Frans Hals formerly owned by
 Elizabeth Taylor  fetched $2.1 million at Christie’s  Old Masters 
sale in  New York .  “Portrait of a Gentleman, Half-Length, in a Black Coat”
was expected to sell for $700,000 to $1 million.  Painted in the early 1630s, the work was likely a gift from
the actress’s father, art dealer Francis Taylor. It hung over a
fireplace in her Bel Air home. Previously thought to be by a
Hals follower, it was attributed to the Dutch master in 2011,
Christie’s said.  Christie’s and Sotheby’s Old Master auctions in New York
are estimated to total as much as $194 million. Sotheby’s sale
is tomorrow.  “The Old Masters are dirt cheap compared to modern
pictures,” said New York-based art dealer Richard Feigen.
“There are very few great paintings coming up anymore; people
won’t sell them.”  A work with the sale’s highest presale estimate, Hans
Memling’s “The Virgin Mary Nursing the Christ Child,” failed
to sell. Christie’s had expected $6 million to $8 million for
the small, round panel by the 15th-century Flemish master. The
auction house had a financial interest in the piece, according
to the catalog.  Another flop was Giuseppe Arcimboldo’s invertible portrait
of a man, possibly Emperor Rudolf II, whose features are made of
fruit topped by a wicker basket (inverted, it’s a still life).
The work’s presale estimate was $3 million to $5 million. It was
only recently attributed to the 16th-century Milan-born painter.  Henry III  Giambattista Tiepolo’s 18th-century canvas “The Arrival of
Henry III at the Villa Contarini” fetched $5.9 million, near
its high estimate of $6 million. Another success was Thomas de
Keyser’s 1627 “Portrait of a Gentleman, Bust-Length, in a Brown
Doublet and Ruff,” which surged past its $300,000 to $500,000
estimate range to sell for $1.5 million. The piece was bought
for the National Gallery of Art in  Washington  by the Lee and
Juliet Folger Fund, according to Christie’s.  One of the stars at  Sotheby’s (BID)  sale tomorrow is
“Lucretia,” a portrait by Lucas Cranach the Elder of a Roman
noblewoman who committed suicide after being raped. Painted
around 1510, it depicts a sad-eyed woman with one breast exposed
pointing a dagger at her belly. The estimate range is $4 million
to $6 million.  Startled Madonna  “The Virgin Annunciate” by Siena-born Simone Martini
(circa 1284-1344) is one of the oldest artworks in the sale at
Sotheby’s. Painted on gold ground, it shows a startled Madonna
in a flowing deep-blue cloak. The work was part of a small
devotional diptych, according to Sotheby’s. Its left part would
have depicted the angel Gabriel announcing the news of the
Virgin’s coming motherhood. The estimate is $3 million to $4
million.  Sotheby’s top lot by estimate is a Canaletto view of  Venice 
expected to fetch between $5 million and $7 million. It shows
the Redentore and San Giacomo churches as well as boats and
gondolas on the canal in front of them. The canvas comes from
the estate of Lady Irene Forte, whose late husband, Charles Forte, founded the Trusthouse Forte hotel and restaurant group.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 