-- Apple Supplier Elpida May Gain Life Support Amid Chip Slump
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-01-25T01:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/elpida-may-gain-another-government-lifeline-to-save-japan-s-last-chipmaker.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , facing a
deadline to repay $1.2 billion of  debt  by April, may gain
financial support for the second time in three years as Japan
seeks to keep the company alive amid a slump in the chip market.  The nation’s trade ministry will probably extend support
set to expire in March for Tokyo-based Elpida, the world’s
third-largest maker of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM
chips, said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  at Asahi
Life Asset Management Co.  “The ministry can’t let Elpida go under, as it rescued the
company under the banner of a Japanese flagship,” Nakatani, who
manages 95 billion yen ($1.2 billion) and doesn’t hold Elpida
shares, said in an interview. “Japanese electronics makers are
using Elpida’s DRAM, so it would mean trouble.”  Demand for DRAM chips, which speed up processing in
computers by temporarily storing data, has slumped as PC sales
slowed, causing Elpida to post a fourth straight quarterly loss
for the period ended Sept. 30. Japanese media have reported
Elpida may tie up with  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and Nanya
Technology Corp. as it seeks to avoid a failure to refinance its
debt, which could cut off supply to clients including  Apple Inc .  Elpida, the largest maker of DRAM after  South Korea ’s
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , needs 92
billion yen to repay bonds and loans by April, according to a
company filing in June. Cash totaled 100.2 billion yen as of
Sept. 30, the company said in October.  Tepco, Olympus  Japan’s government will likely support Elpida given its
previous commitment to other crippled companies, according to
Amir Anvarzadeh, a Singapore-based manager for Asian equity
sales at BGC Partners.  He cited the examples of Tokyo Electric Power Co., which
has stayed afloat with government support since the disaster at
its Fukushima nuclear power plant in March, and camera maker
 Olympus Corp. (7733) , which kept its stock-market listing amid an
accounting scandal. Tepco received 2 trillion yen in emergency
loans last year related to the Fukushima disaster.  “They will not even let Tepco or the less strategically
placed Olympus to go under,” Anvarzadeh said. “Even assuming
the worst, the costs involved to keep Elpida solvent would be
insignificant.”  Japan Airlines Corp. received four government bailouts in
nine years before filing for bankruptcy in January 2010. The
Tokyo-based company emerged from  bankruptcy protection  last
year.  ‘Severe Environment’  Yukio Edano, Japan’s trade minister, said Jan. 6 Elpida is
considering various plans to improve its cost structure.  “The industry is in a severe environment as the yen rises
and the chip prices fall,” he said at the time.  He declined to say whether the ministry will extend its
support at a press conference on Jan. 20.  Elpida declined in an e-mail today to comment on the
outlook for refinancing or government support. The company is in
talks with  banks  to refinance its borrowing and discussing
advance payments and capital investments with customers, it said
in a  statement  on Jan. 18.  The chipmaker’s main lenders told it to craft a government-
approved restructuring plan to receive continued financial
support, the Yomiuri newspaper reported Jan. 7, without saying
where it got the information. Elpida may present a plan to banks
as early as today, the Sankei newspaper reported today, also
without citing anyone.  ‘Pocket Change’  Keeping Elpida in business is also important to its
clients, BGC’s Anvarzadeh said. The company is “one of the
primary suppliers” of mobile DRAM chips for Apple’s iPad2 and
iPhone 4, giving the Cupertino, California-based company an
incentive to support Elpida if necessary, he said.  “Providing Elpida with, say, 50 billion yen in equity
injection is pocket change for the U.S. giant to keep its
supplies secure,” Anvarzadeh said.  Apple has $97.6 billion in cash and investments, money it’s
“actively” discussing how to use, Chief Financial Officer
 Peter Oppenheimer  said on a conference call yesterday. That
could include supply-chain investments, he said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on Elpida.  Elpida may ask the Innovation Network Corp., a government-
affiliated technology fund, to invest 100 billion yen as the
company needs to buy equipment to improve its chips, the Yomiuri
reported yesterday.  “I assume there’s a 70 to 80 percent chance that Elpida
can get refinancing,” Haruo Sato, an analyst at Tokai  Tokyo 
Securities Co., said in an interview. “Forming an alliance
would be positive if that doesn’t require investing in other
companies or spending on facilities.”  Forming Alliance  The Yomiuri report also said Elpida is in merger talks with
Micron and Nanya. The report “isn’t factual,” the Japanese
company said in a statement yesterday. Dan Francisco, a
spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron, declined to comment,
and calls placed to Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Nanya during a
Taiwanese public holiday went unanswered.  “Elpida needs to find a business partner to convince
banks,” Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., said in an interview.  The company got 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans
from the government and banks in 2009 after falling chip prices
caused it to post a record loss, as the trade ministry said
Japan needed to have a domestic DRAM manufacturer to prevent
supply disruptions.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses.  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips used in
tablet computers and smartphones.  Samsung, Hynix  Samsung controlled 45 percent of the DRAM  market  by value
in the third quarter, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
Inc.’s iSuppli. Hynix held a 21.5 percent share, followed by
Elpida’s 12.1 percent, the researcher said. Micron had the same
share as Elpida, with $2 million less in revenue, and Nanya had
a 3.6 percent share, according to iSuppli.  The average selling  price of DRAM  fell 26 percent in the
third quarter, iSuppli said last month. Nomura Holdings Inc. cut
its forecast for 2012 growth in global shipments of
semiconductors by value to 2.7 percent from 3.7 percent because
of falling DRAM prices, it said Jan. 5.  The rising  Japanese currency , which strengthened to a
postwar high of 75.35 against the  U.S. dollar  on Oct. 31, is
also eroding Elpida’s repatriated earnings from overseas sales.  Net Loss  The company’s net loss probably will amount to 106 billion
yen for the year ending March 31, according to the average of 18
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Elpida is trying to diversify its products from chips for
personal computers, a strategy that helped Samsung be the only
profitable chipmaker in the third quarter. The Japanese company
may boost output of mobile DRAM in  Japan , BGC’s Anvarzadeh said.  Elpida plans to shift some domestic production to its unit
Rexchip Electronics Corp. unit in  Taiwan , it said in September.  If Elpida fails to persuade lenders to renew its loan
contracts, it would lead to the biggest shakeup in the chip
industry since Japanese companies began exiting the market in
the late 1990s.  “The possibility that the government will pull the plug
isn’t zero, as the current slump in the chip industry is
structural, not cyclical,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive
officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co. in Tokyo. “There
may be an argument this time about whether the country really
wants to keep this.”  ‘Just a Commodity’  Japan may no longer have a strong strategic incentive to
support a domestic chipmaker, as technological development in
the industry has slowed, Kikuchi said.  “The changes they make are very small improvements”
compared with a decade ago, he said. “Now it’s just a
commodity, and I’m not sure it has to be kept in Japan.”  Akira Minamikawa, vice president at the Japanese unit of
iSuppli, said it’s unlikely Japan’s government would want to
deal with job losses that would result from Elpida’s failure.
The company, with two domestic production sites, employed 5,957
people, including about 3,200 in Japan, as of Sept. 30,
according to its website.  “The support will be probably extended,” Minamikawa said.
“Otherwise, they would have to face the problem of job losses
that would necessarily result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  