-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb to Three-Month High; Hynix, LG Pace Advance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-01-25T22:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-three-month-high-hynix-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks gained after
the U.S.  Federal Reserve  said  interest rates  will remain low
until late 2014, weakening the dollar and boosting demand for
riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.2 percent to 999.60
at the close in New York and jumped as much as 0.5 percent after
the Fed decision. Mexico’s IPC Index rose 1 percent. The  Micex
Index (MICEX)  gained 0.7 percent in Moscow while Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX) 
slid the most in two weeks. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
climbed 0.5 percent.  The Fed extended its pledge to keep benchmark borrowing
rates low and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke didn’t rule out another
round of so-called quantitative easing, or bond purchases, as
the Fed works to reduce unemployment. The yield on the U.S.
Treasury five-year note sank to a record low of 0.797 percent
and gold climbed to a six-week high.  “Emerging-market equities, the euro and gold have all been
pushed up today,” Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at
Los-Angeles based TCW Group Inc., wrote in an e-mail. “Bernanke
set an implicit inflation target of 2 percent per year.  If that
means that the Fed will start a QE3, that move would, indeed
have the impact of pushing up emerging market equity prices” by
lowering U.S. bond yields and making emerging-market stocks more
enticing.  Emerging-market stocks have gained 9 percent this year,
their best January performance since 2006, after tumbling 20
percent in 2011. The developing-nation index trades for 10.1
times estimated earnings, compared with a 12.1 times multiple
for the developed-country gauge.  Apple Earnings  Record earnings from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of iPhones and
iPads, also boosted markets.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , which
supplies memory chips to Apple, added 1.9 percent in Seoul.  Apple said first-quarter profit surged to $13.1 billion, or
$13.87 a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average
estimated profit of $10.14 a share. The shares gained 6.2
percent to a record $446.66.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-largest maker of
mobile phones, rose 4 percent in Seoul. Sales of the company’s
Optimus LTE phone exceeded one million units, the company said
in a statement.  Hungary’s BUX Index fell 1 percent as leaders worked to
revive bailout talks with the International Monetary Fund and
the European Union.  Mexico’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  stock index rose 1 percent.  Emerging-market currencies including the Mexican peso, the
Hungarian forint and Turkey’s lira rebounded against the dollar
after the Fed decision. The forint gained 1.4 percent versus the
dollar, the best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 405 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Markets in Hong Kong, Taiwan and China remain closed for
holidays. Brazilian equity markets were closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  