-- Ericsson Tumbles as U.S. Spending Cuts Hit Net: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-25T17:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ericsson-profit-misses-estimates-on-u-s-cuts.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, fell the most in more than four
years in  Stockholm  as fourth-quarter profit missed analyst
estimates on slower spending from North American customers.  Net income  declined to 1.15 billion kronor ($168 million)
from 4.32 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based
Ericsson said today. Analysts in a SME Direkt survey predicted
profit of 4.24 billion kronor, the average of 40 estimates.  Ericsson said today sales of equipment on the CDMA
standard, used by  Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Nextel Corp.,
declined in the quarter as operators built up fourth-generation
networks. The company lost money on global network rollouts as
it started projects to replace equipment at European carriers.
These modernization contracts will deliver smaller margins than
ongoing contracts for at least two years, Chief Financial
Officer Jan Frykhammar  said  at an investor meeting Nov. 9.  “The trends were expected, but the magnitude of the drop
in U.S. sales and margins was bigger than expected,” said
Haakan Wranne, a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank. “There
are few clues for investors to pick up exactly when a shift is
going to happen, so it’s a rational share price reaction and we
will see dramatic revisions downward for earnings per share.”  Ericsson shares plummeted as much as 15 percent in
Stockholm, the biggest fall since Oct. 16 2007, and were down 14
percent at 58.85 kronor at the 5:30 p.m. close, the largest
decliner on the Stoxx 600 Technology Index, which was down 0.4
percent. Alcatel-Lucent,  France ’s largest telecommunications
equipment supplier, fell as much as 11 percent in Paris to 1.33
euros, the most in two months.  ‘No Guidance’  The results are “spectacularly dreadful, even with low
expectations,” said Neil Campling, an analyst at Aviate Global
LLP in  London . “A further problem for the investment community
going forward is Ericsson’s continued insistence of giving no
guidance. We’d expect a plethora of downgrades to follow.”  Ericsson has no plans to give more detailed financial
guidance, Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said in an
interview. He was appointed chief financial officer, a stepping
stone to the top job, in October 2007, nine days after the
company said it missed its own third-quarter forecasts, sending
stock down 30 percent to a three-year low. Ericsson stopped
giving guidance after that.  “We think it’s better that we are assessed on our
performance rather than our forecasts,” Vestberg said. “We are
not happy with the result but the factors in the report are the
factors we’ve talked about for quite a while.”  Gross Margin Narrowed  Gross margin narrowed to 30.2 percent from 36.6 percent a
year earlier owing to the “business mix” including more
rollout work and modernization, the company said. The mix is
expected to persist “for the next few quarters,” Vestberg
said.  Quarterly revenue at Ericsson gained 1 percent to 63.7
billion kronor, missing all of the 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, which had an average of 67.4 billion kronor. Ericsson
said it took 0.7 billion kronor in restructuring charges in the
quarter.  “All the major numbers were disappointing,” Robert Jakobsen, an analyst with Jyske Bank in Silkeborg,  Denmark , said
by telephone. “Operator spending is clearly reduced especially
in areas that have been very good for Ericsson in the last
couple of years. And they already indicated a slowdown, so the
estimates reflected that, and still it was worse.”  Credit-default swaps on Ericsson jumped 31 basis points to
149, according to CMA, the highest since Oct. 4 and the biggest
daily increase in more than three years.  Revised Spending Plans  AT&T Inc. (T)  revised its spending plans while it mounted a bid
for  T-Mobile USA  that collapsed in December, and T-Mobile put
its plans for fourth-generation network on hold. Verizon slowed
capital expenditure compared with last few years, according to
its  guidance .  Worldwide spending on wireless infrastructure equipment may
have grown 9.1 percent last year to $42.5 billion, marking its
first expansion since 2008 according to Englewood, Colorado-
based market researcher  IHS iSuppli . So-called fourth-generation
systems are expected to overtake third-generation systems in
2013, IHS iSuppli said.  Swedbank’s Wranne said long-term prospects for Ericsson are
still good. “It’s getting increasingly clear that Ericsson and
Huawei are winners in this business and the other guys are
subscale.”  Base-Station Control  Nokia Siemens Networks and Huawei Technologies Co. compete
with Ericsson to control base stations used by third-generation,
or 3G, mobile-broadband networks and win contracts for fourth-
generation networks, which increase speed of data transfer.
Sales of older second-generation networks, which cater to voice
and text message users, are declining.  Joint ventures pared 1.9 billion kronor from Ericsson’s
pretax income. Chipmaking venture ST-Ericsson Jan. 23 reported a
fourth-quarter loss of $231 million, while Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 207
million euros ($266 million). Sony Corp. is expected to complete
its purchase of Ericsson’s half of the venture for 1.05 billion
euros by the end of February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  