-- Merkel Makes Davos Appeal to Investors for Time to Solve European Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/merkel-makes-davos-appeal-to-investors-for-time-to-solve-europe-s-crisis.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
appealed to business leaders at the  World Economic Forum  to give
policy makers the space they need to tackle the debt crisis,
pledging that Europe will pull together and restore confidence.  “I would like to ask all of you who are here as the
representatives of the business community” to recognize how
democratic governments work and to “please take the long-drawn-
out processes with a degree of acceptance,” Merkel said in a
question-and-answer session after opening the forum yesterday in
Davos,  Switzerland .  Merkel’s comments underscore her shift in approach to
taming the debt crisis now in its third year, having ditched
rhetoric about conducting a “battle” between markets and
politicians. At the same time, Merkel rejected adding any new
money to fight the crisis and reiterated the need to curb debt
and deficits while boosting competitiveness as the main thrust
of her strategy to keep the 17-nation euro area together.  “ Europe  will become more attractive once we have conquered
this crisis, and I’m absolutely convinced that we will be able
to master this crisis,” she said. European leaders will discuss
measures to raise competitiveness and create growth and jobs at
their Jan. 30 summit and again in March, she said.  Private Meeting  Merkel was speaking after she held a private meeting with
chief executive officers who are members of the World Economic
Forum’s International Business Council. Among those to attend
were  David Rubenstein , co-CEO and co-founder of private equity
firm  Carlyle Group , and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Jamie Dimon . U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will speak to the same group today,
Rubenstein said.  “She is one of the most impressive government leaders,”
Cisco Systems Inc. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said in
an interview after Merkel’s speech. “She was even more
impressive” in the private session.  In her speech, Merkel said that calls to increase the size
of Europe’s “firewall” against the debt crisis go too far, and
place the credibility of the rescue measures into question.  “Some say that it has to be double the size, then if
that’s not big enough, others will say it has to be three times
as big,” Merkel said. “What we don’t want is a situation in
which we promise something that we can’t back up.”  ‘Wide Open’  “If  Germany , as the representative of all European
countries, promises something that can’t be kept in the event of
a harsh attack by the markets, then Europe would have a wide-
open flank,” she said.  European countries must move closer together and be ready
to cede more powers to the European Union so the continent is
“turned into a Europe that works,” she said.  For all the focus on curbing debt now being carried out
across Europe, governments won’t be able to close budget
deficits “in one go,” she said. “It will take time to
overcome these deficits, we’re determined to do that.”  Alexey Mordashov, the billionaire CEO of Russian steelmaker
OAO Severstal, said after Merkel’s speech that he appreciated
her “confidence and optimism” on Europe’s ability emerge from
the crisis.  “It is clear it will require time, and it is not all easy,
but the fact that one of the EU’s largest countries is positive
is good,” Mordashov said in an interview in Davos. Merkel
displayed “an understanding that it is not enough to declare
principles, the means of implementing them have to be worked out
to make the EU and its economy stronger and healthier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  