-- Tesco Issues Store-Backed Bonds as Moody’s Reviews Rating
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-25T17:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/tesco-offers-store-backed-bonds-as-moody-s-reviews-credit-rating.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest
supermarket owner, sold 450.5 million pounds ($702 million) of
bonds secured on store rents as Moody’s Investors Service
reviews whether to downgrade the retailer’s credit rating.  The notes due in 2041 were priced to yield 275 basis
points, or 2.75 percentage points, more than U.K. government
debt, according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.
That compares with the 140 basis points Tesco offered on similar
securities due 2040 that it sold in February last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale follows Moody’s review of the Cheshunt, England-
based retailer’s A3 rating last week after Tesco reported
Christmas sales that missed estimates and prompted it to cut
profit expectations. Moody’s said today it may also  downgrade 
about 4 billion pounds of commercial mortgage-backed securities
linked to the grocer, which includes the new issue.  The bonds were issued by Tesco Property Finance 5 Plc, a
special purpose company, and are backed by rental payments from
Tesco stores in the U.K., said the banker, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed the sale.  The supermarket operator is rated an equivalent A- at both
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Tesco has about  13.5
billion pounds of bonds outstanding , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Asset-backed securities package loans into bonds that can
be sold on to investors. The securities typically allow issuers
to raise capital more cheaply than from unsecured debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  