-- European Stocks Decline as Ericsson, Novartis Drop on Earnings
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-25T16:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/european-stock-index-futures-rise-as-apple-profit-doubles-sap-may-climb.html
European stocks  fell for a second
day after Ericsson AB and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  posted earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks,
plunged 14 percent after reporting  fourth-quarter net income 
that missed analysts’ estimates. Novartis,  Europe’s biggest
drugmaker by sales , declined 2.5 percent.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
climbed 3 percent after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  posted quarterly profit that
more than doubled.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.4 percent to
254.95 in  London . The gauge has still  risen 4.3 percent so far
this year  amid signs that the  U.S. economy  is recovering and as
investors speculated that the euro area will contain its debt
crisis and  China  will reduce curbs on lending.  “Earnings estimates still look extremely optimistic,”
 Philippe Gijsels , head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global
Markets, said in a phone interview from Brussels. “We would be
cautious on risky assets at the moment. Let’s not forget the
overall economy is weak.”  Earnings per share for companies in the  Stoxx 600  probably
rose by 12 percent on average in 2011, according to more than
12,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. They may
increase by 7 percent this year, the forecasts show.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western-
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.5
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.3 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index added less than 0.1 percent.  U.K. Economy Contracts  The  U.K. economy  shrank in the fourth quarter more than
 economists had forecast  as manufacturers cut output and services
stagnated, leaving Britain on the brink of another recession.
 Bank of England  policy makers voted unanimously this month to
keep their target for bond purchases unchanged, with some
officials saying more stimulus is “likely” to be needed after
the current program is complete.  Ericsson plunged 14 percent to 58.85 kronor, its largest
drop since 2008 and the biggest contribution to the  Stoxx 600’s
slide  today, after reporting fourth-quarter net income of 1.15
billion kronor ($169 million), missing  analysts’ estimates  for
profit of 4.24 billion kronor.  These results are “spectacularly dreadful, even with low
expectations,” said Neil Campling, an analyst at Aviate Global
LLP in London. “A further problem for the investment community
going forward is Ericsson’s continued insistence on giving no
guidance. We’d expect a plethora of downgrades to follow.”  Novartis, Roche, Lonza  Novartis fell 2.5 percent to 50.70 Swiss francs. The
drugmaker said sales probably won’t grow this year and
profitability will be hurt as the drugmaker’s biggest-selling
medicine loses U.S. patent protection.  Fourth-quarter net income 
excluding some costs rose to $3 billion, or $1.23 a share, from
$2.8 billion, or $1.14, a year earlier. Analysts had predicted
$1.24 a share, the average of 14 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  lost 2.8 percent to 160 francs after
offering about $5.7 billion in cash for Illumina Inc. to bolster
its cancer-drug sales. Roche proposed paying $44.50 a share for
Illumina, 18 percent more than yesterday’s closing price. Roche
will put the offer directly to shareholders after the San Diego-
based company was “unwilling to participate in substantive
discussions,” Roche said in a statement.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  tumbled 13 percent to 53.15 francs, its
largest slide in more than two years, after saying it is seeking
a successor to Chief Executive Officer Stefan Borgas and
reporting a 46 percent decline in profit last year.  Bank Shares Drop  Banks retreated in Britain as the economy shrank more than
forecast.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell 1.1 percent to
26.75 pence and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slid 2.4 percent to
30.93 pence.  Petroplus Holdings AG retreated 13 percent to 21 centimes,
extending yesterday’s 84 percent slide when the largest
independent European refiner said it planned to file for
insolvency.  Declines in European shares came as Apple Inc. reported
quarterly profit that more than doubled.  Apple reported  per-share profit  for its fiscal first
quarter of $13.87, more than it earned in any full year before
2010. The company  forecast revenue  of about $32.5 billion and
profit of $8.50 a share for its fiscal second quarter. That
compares with  analysts’ predictions  for sales of $31.9 billion
and profit of $7.96 a share. The stock trades at a price-
earnings ratio of 11.2 times, based on estimated profits,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s the largest company I’ve ever seen, with the fastest
growth earnings, selling for the cheapest multiple, ever,” said
Kenneth Schapiro, president of Condor Capital Management, which
oversees $500 million in Martinsville, New Jersey. He spoke in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Susan Li.  ARM Shares Gain  ARM’s shares rose 3 percent to 597.5 pence. ARM is the U.K.
owner of chip technology used in Apple’s iPhone and iPad.  BioMerieux (BIM) , a French maker of tests for HIV and hepatitis,
jumped 11 percent to 64.88 euros. The company rallied the most
in four years after reporting a 5.2 percent increase in 2011
sales and forecast growth for this year.  The  Federal Reserve  will release rate forecasts for the
first time today. Business and political leaders gathered in
Davos, Switzerland, for the start of the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  