-- Europe Can Beat This Crisis but Maybe Not the Next: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/europe-can-beat-this-crisis-but-maybe-not-the-next-clive-crook.html
How gloomy should we be about the
European Union? Are its problems manageable, or is it headed for
systemic collapse? My answer is yes -- the problems are
manageable, and the EU’s leaders are behaving so recklessly that
collapse is all too possible. I don’t know whether that makes me
an optimist or a pessimist.  The Peterson Institute for International Economics just
hosted a debate about  Europe ’s prognosis. Four well-known
economists, all deserving to be taken seriously, argued for and
against the doomsday scenario. Let’s review their positions.  Peter Boone  and  Simon Johnson  were the pessimists. Europe’s
problems are worse than generally acknowledged, they said, and
there’s no “credible path out of crisis.” (Boone and Johnson
summarized their thinking in an op-ed for  Bloomberg View , and
the institute published their  essay , “The European Crisis
Deepens.’’ You can watch a  video  of the debate.)  Fred Bergsten and Jacob Funk Kirkegaard think such talk is
overblown. “Europe’s overriding political imperative to preserve
the integration project will surely drive its leaders to
ultimately secure the euro and restore the economic health of
the continent.” (An  essay  by them is also online.)  Neither side is too precise in its predictions. Boone and
Johnson don’t think that systemic collapse is certain, and
Bergsten and Kirkegaard aren’t saying it’s impossible. It’s a
question of probabilities, and neither side gives odds. Still,
Boone and Johnson think the economic hole is deeper and the
politics of getting out more difficult than Bergsten and
Kirkegaard maintain. Let’s consider the economics and the
politics in turn.  Insolvent or Illiquid  The economics boils down to this: How many EU countries, in
addition to  Greece , are insolvent as opposed to merely illiquid?
Insolvency implies that defaults are inescapable and playing for
time won’t work.  More concisely, is Italy solvent? Boone and Johnson
controversially include it, along with Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal , in their list of countries that “appear to be
insolvent” once risk premiums are taken into account. This makes
a huge difference, because it vastly enlarges the defaults that
could ensue. Italy accounts for  1.9 trillion  euros ($2.47
trillion) of Europe’s  8.4 trillion  euros in sovereign debt.  If Italy is about to fall, Europe’s problem is far bigger
than many believe -- but Boone and Johnson are only getting
started. Suppose the European Central Bank finally stepped
forward, as many analysts have urged, and made itself explicit
lender of last resort to Europe’s governments. That won’t work,
they say.
Supplying distressed governments’ demands for new loans as debts
roll over wouldn’t convince investors that the sovereign debt
they already hold is safe. The bank would also have to buy, say,
three-quarters of the existing stock of debt. Otherwise,
 interest rates  in the secondary market for sovereign debt would
continue to include a big risk premium, and insolvent countries
would stay insolvent.  Add  Spain  to the list of bankrupt states, and the cost of
the bank’s required debt purchases might be anywhere from 2.5
trillion euros if all went well and 4.5 trillion euros if it
didn’t. Germany’s share would expose its taxpayers, in the
central case, to credit risk of 1.2 trillion euros, or 45
percent of  Germany’s GDP (WGDPGERM) . That, Boone and Johnson say, isn’t
going to happen.  Suppose it did. It wouldn’t help anyway. Once the  European
Central Bank  commits to this approach, markets would panic over
the potential cost if the trouble spreads to other countries.
Also, none of this addresses the European periphery’s
competitiveness problem. To deal with that, governments would have
to cut  public spending  and wages deeply -- again, politically
impossible. Meanwhile the unelected ECB would find itself
negotiating budget programs and structural economic reforms with
euro-area governments.  Swaying One Way  I hadn’t expected to be a cheerleader for Europe in this
discussion, but this remorselessly fatalistic analysis inclines
me in that direction.  The size of the risk premium on distressed sovereigns’ debt
is the key to solvency: Boone and Johnson are right about that.
It’s true that perceptions of risk in the European sovereign
 bond market  have changed for good. Default risk was set at
nothing before the crisis. Those days are over. Nonetheless
investors are spooked by more than ineluctable debt dynamics.
Europe’s outrageous dithering is compounding the problem. If EU
leaders began to act more decisively, perceived risks would
abate.  An ECB commitment to act as lender of last resort would
also reduce risk premiums: not to zero, but with luck by enough
to make the difference. Outlays on the colossal scale envisioned
by Boone and Johnson wouldn’t be needed, so long as investors
believed the bank’s promise to commit huge sums if required.
Alongside other measures -- credible budget stringency, pro-
growth structural reforms and fiscal expansion in  Germany  and
the rest of Europe’s northern core -- a lower risk premium would
make Italy solvent.  For these reasons I agree with Bergsten and Kirkegaard that
the situation is retrievable. But this brings us to the
politics. The question is whether EU leaders can actually bring
themselves to retrieve it.  Here, I think, Bergsten and Kirkegaard are a bit too
blithe. Don’t panic, they say. This is how Europe does things.
They quote Jean Monnet, architect of the EU: “Europe will be
forged in crises, and will be the sum of the solutions adopted
for those crises.”  At the moment of maximum peril, and not before, something
will happen. Maybe the ECB will make itself lender of last
resort, they say. Maybe Germany will write a check and expand
the EU’s bailout fund. Maybe Europe will channel resources to
the  International Monetary Fund  that can be used to arrange new
bailouts. The alternative -- cascading defaults, the collapse of
the euro system, the unraveling of the entire European project -
- is unthinkable. In the nick of time, something will be done.  Brink of Disaster  This time, they could be right, but I’d underline two
things. First, as the EU has expanded it has also become more
closely integrated and far more financially complex. Making
policy on the brink of disaster has become more hazardous. Boone
and Johnson rightly emphasize the point: The problems are
tougher than before and aligning governments behind solutions is
more difficult, too. One day, the proponents of management by
crisis will run out of luck.  Second, the resolution of this crisis will involve further
erosions of national sovereignty. Central oversight of fiscal
policy must increase. However, even if done more intelligently
than the dumb “fiscal pact” currently on the table, it comes at
a cost. The EU’s “ democratic deficit ” -- the distance between
its citizens and their rulers -- will grow still larger.  Bergsten and Kirkegaard conclude: “If the history of the
integration exercise and its crisis responses to date are any
guide, Europe will emerge from its current turmoil not only with
the euro intact but with far stronger institutions and economic
prospects for the future.” I don’t think so. If Europe’s leaders
can finally stir themselves, Europe may emerge from its current
turmoil with the euro intact, and even with some of its
economies strengthened. But as its political institutions move
on to the next emergency, they will be less legitimate and hence
more fragile.  I suppose that makes me a pessimist.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 