-- European Soccer Clubs’ Losses Widen 36% to $2.1 Billion in 2010, UEFA Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-25T16:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/european-soccer-clubs-losses-widen-36-to-2-1-billion-in-2010-uefa-says.html
Top-level European soccer clubs’
losses widened by 36 percent to 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion)
in the 2010 fiscal year, according to an audit of 665 teams by
the sport’s regional governing body.  Sales rose 6.6 percent to 12.8 billion euros during the
period and costs surged 1 billion euros to 14.4 billion euros,
with 56 percent of clubs making a loss, Nyon, Switzerland-based
 UEFA  told reporters today. The teams had debts of 8.4 billion
euros, the group said.  The organization is trying to promote fiscal discipline
among clubs with new rules that threaten sanctions, starting in
2014, should teams fail to rein in their losses, most of which
are connected to the purchase and wages paid to players.  “It’s the last wakeup call that this red trend has to be
inverted very, very quickly if we want to safeguard European”
soccer, Gianni Infantino, UEFA’s general secretary, told
reporters at UEFA’s headquarters today.  The losses led Ernesto Paolillo, the chief executive
officer of  Inter Milan , to describe it as a crisis that mirrors
the causes of  bank failures  in 2008 and the current economic
issues affecting the Eurozone.  “I can compare the situation of the football industry
exactly to the situation of  Italy ,  Spain  and  Greece ’s balance
sheet,” Paolillo, a former banker, said today. “The first move
must be to cut costs and increase revenue. This is important.”  He said not taking action may lead to collapses like the
one that saw investment bank Lehman Brothers Inc. file for
bankruptcy.  Balance Sheets  Clubs spent 3.3 billion euros on players, with 2.3 billion
euros still owed to selling teams. Employee costs had “a small
decrease” to account for 64 percent of total revenue, the
report showed.  More than half of teams “reported a weakening in their
balance sheet, indicating a lot of club owners did not cover the
losses,” the governing body said in the report. Infantino said
13 clubs currently playing the in the  Champions League  and
Europa League would have failed the break-even tests required
from the 2014 season, when sanctions will come into force.  “Financial fair play is going to happen,” he said.  UEFA published an 85-page book on the new rules. Still, the
governing body hasn’t been able to confirm that sanctions are
compatible with  European Union law . Infantino said bans for the
worst rule breakers remain an option.  Clubs that breach the rules could be prohibited from
fielding new players, be deducted points or face limits on squad
sizes in European competition, as well as fines and exclusion
from the tournaments, UEFA has said.  Enough Time  Last week, Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, CEO of  Bayern Munich  and
head of the European Club Association, a body representing about
200 top teams, said UEFA has had enough time to discuss what the
penalties would be and it was time to make an announcement.  Infantino said he’d held talks with the European Union’s
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia .  “We ended with the common opinion that if financial fair
play would’ve been applied in the European economy rather than
football maybe the situation would’ve been different,” he said.  Alasdair Bell, UEFA’s senior lawyer, said the organization
was willing to take the “risk” and defend itself in court if a
major club challenged punishments for breaching the regulations.  “The system is not going to have much credibility if a big
club that is in serious breach of the rules is not punished in
an effective way,” he said. “For me the sanctions need to be
effective enough that people come into compliance with the
system otherwise clubs are going to become disillusioned
rapidly.”  Infantino was joined in Nyon by Paolillo and Lyon president
Jean-Michel Aulas, two of the biggest supporters of the need to
impose fiscal discipline in the sport.  “These rules are not excluding new investors,” said
Aulas. “But I believe new investors can come into market
attracted by rules that mean there’s a stop to losses and debts.
It’s a very good condition for an investor to come to market
knowing he can’t lose more than a certain amount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Nyon via the London newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 