-- Ex-HealthSouth Chief Richard Scrushy’s Prison Sentence Cut to 70 Months
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T22:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ex-healthsouth-chief-richard-scrushy-s-prison-sentence-cut-to-70-months.html
HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)  founder  Richard Scrushy  may be freed this year after being resentenced to 70
months in prison for making a  campaign contribution  to Alabama’s
former governor in exchange for a seat on a state hospital
board.  U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller resentenced Scrushy, 59,
today in Montgomery, Alabama, his lawyer, Arthur Leach, said.
His original prison term was six years and 10 months. Before
today, Scrushy’s projected release date was June 2013, according
to the  U.S. Bureau of Prisons .  “This basically is getting him home 12 months early,”
Leach said today in a phone interview. “It allows him to get on
with his life, find a job and support his family.”  An appeals court in May overturned two honest-services
convictions and upheld two others after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
narrowed the scope of a law making it a crime to deprive
citizens and shareholders of the honest services of public and
corporate officers.  Scrushy was assigned to a federal prison in Beaumont,
 Texas , after a jury convicted him in 2006 of giving former
Alabama Governor Don Siegelman a $500,000 campaign contribution
in exchange for a seat on a hospital regulatory board. He was
acquitted in 2005 of charges of directing an accounting fraud at
his health-care company.  High-School Tutor  Scrushy spoke for about 45 minutes at today’s sentencing
hearing, Leach said. He talked about his job teaching math,
science and history to people taking the high-school equivalency
exam, according to Leach.  He will probably go to a halfway house within the next 30
days, Leach said. From there he will spend six months in home
confinement under the supervision of the Bureau of Prisons
before being eligible for supervised release, the lawyer said.  The case is U.S. v. Scrushy, 05-cr-119, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of  Alabama  (Montgomery).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  