-- Exelon Fourth-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates on Costs, Weather
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-25T13:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/exelon-fourth-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-costs-weather.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S.
utility holding company, reported fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates because of increasing power plant
operating costs and warmer-than-normal weather.  Net income rose to $606 million, or 91 cents a share, from
$524 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, Chicago-based Exelon
said in a statement on  Business Wire  today. Excluding costs from
its pending purchase of  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  and
gains from financial contracts and investments, per-share profit
was 6 cents less than the average of 14  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Exelon is seeing profit margin shrink on electricity
generated by its 17 nuclear reactors as contracts it signed when
power prices were high begin to expire, said Andrew Levi, a New
York-based power analyst with Caris & Co. A glut of U.S. gas
supplies has cut prices for the power-plant fuel, in turn
causing average electricity prices in PJM to fall 38 percent
since 2008.  “Power prices in general have fallen off a cliff,” Levi
said in a telephone interview before the earnings were released.
“Whether it’s Exelon or some of the integrated names, they
definitely have some big headwinds to fight.”  Levi doesn’t own or rate Exelon shares. The company said 93
percent of its power production in 2010 came from nuclear
reactors, with gas fueling about 1 percent of its output. Its
$7.36 billion plan to buy Constellation, announced April 28, is
still awaiting regulatory approvals.  The announcement was made before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Exelon  fell  1.5 percent to $39.22 yesterday in  New
York . The shares, which gained 4.2 percent last year, have 10
buy and 11 hold recommendations from analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  