-- Textron Rises as Forecast Beats Estimates Amid Cessna Demand
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-25T15:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/textron-rises-as-forecast-beats-estimates-amid-cessna-demand.html
Textron Inc. (TXT)  climbed the most in
more than two years after forecasting higher 2012 profit than
analysts estimated amid growing demand for Cessna aircraft and
Bell helicopters.  Textron jumped 15 percent to $24.85 at 10:48 a.m. in New
York trading. Earlier the stock advanced as much as 16 percent,
its biggest intraday gain since July 2009. Before today, the
shares had lost 20 percent of their value in the past year.  Earnings from continuing operations, excluding one-time
items, will be $1.80 a share to $2 this year, the Providence,
Rhode Island-based company said in a statement. The average of
nine  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was $1.67.  Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly is working to
leverage the company’s businesses with measures such as having
Cessna and Bell share overseas service centers and sales forces.
Textron is winding down its finance unit, which  struggled  during
the recession.  “The 2012 guidance is a positive surprise,” since most
investors expected a forecast slightly below estimates,  Julian Mitchell , a New York-based analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a note to clients. He rates the shares “neutral.”  Textron posted a fourth-quarter net loss of $19 million, or
7 cents a share, compared with profit of $60 million, or 19
cents, a year earlier.  Cessna Backlog  Excluding 55 cents a share in one-time items such as
adjustments in the finance unit and a loss from convertible note
repurchases, profit from continuing operations was 49 cents a
share. That exceeded the 34-cent average of 14  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  At Cessna, which had to halve its workforce when sales
plunged during the recession, fourth-quarter revenue increased
5.3 percent to $1.01 billion. Higher volumes of used jets,
single-engine planes and Caravans made up for deliveries of
Citation business jets dropping to 67 from 79, the company said.
The unit’s backlog dropped 13 percent to $1.9 billion.  “We do not see it as a good sign that the backlog was
again down in what was expected to be the strongest quarter for
sales,” Robert Stallard, a New York-based analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , wrote in a note to clients.  Cessna’s profit more than doubled to $60 million, while
Bell helicopter earnings advanced 21 percent to $167 million.  Bell Deliveries  Bell delivered 62 commercial aircraft in the latest period,
down from 71 a year earlier. The unit contributed about 31
percent of Textron’s 2011 revenue, compared with Cessna’s 27
percent. Its backlog climbed to $7.3 billion, a $981 million
increase.  Revenue at Cessna will probably climb 14 percent to $3.4
billion with profit advancing 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent,
Textron said today in a  presentation  posted on its website.  Demand for business jets “should build throughout the
year,” Donnelly said. “Longer term, we expect jet growth to
accelerate as the global economy stabilizes, emerging markets
develop further and our new products roll into the
marketplace,” he said.  Cessna may break even in the first quarter, Donnelly said.
In last year’s first quarter, the unit had a loss of $14
million.  Textron will probably make a decision on whether to adjust
production rates at  Cessna  in mid-2012, the CEO said. A drop in
demand such as the one that occurred in 2008 and 2009 would
“absolutely” trigger cutbacks, he said, though the scenario
“seems fairly unlikely given where we are right now, and
certainly unlikely given the level of activity we are seeing
with our customers.”  ‘Huge Investment’  Cessna isn’t considering building bigger  business jets ,
Donnelly said, adding that there are better investments to be
made in its line of light and midsized aircraft.  A bigger jet “would be a huge investment,” he said. “I
don’t think it would be the right use of our capital.”  Bell will probably record a “significant” increase in
commercial helicopter deliveries this year from last year’s
tally of 125, Donnelly said. Revenue at the unit will probably
climb 19 percent to about $4.2 billion, with profit advancing 13
percent to 14 percent, Textron said.  Textron builds the V-22 Osprey plane with Boeing Co. and
makes other military equipment, including drones and armored
vehicles. The company, founded as a textile producer in 1923,
also builds E-Z-GO golf carts, Greenlee tools and Kautex plastic
fuel systems.  Total quarterly revenue rose 4.1 percent to $3.25 billion
from $3.13 billion a year earlier, outpacing analysts’ estimates
of $3.24 billion.  Revenue in 2012  may climb to $12.5 billion
from last year’s $11.28 billion, the company said.  Golf Mortgage  Textron may need as long as two years to sell its finance
unit’s Golf Mortgage assets, which include loans for golf
courses as well as construction and refinancing of hotels,
Donnelly said. The portfolio is valued at about $381 million.  “I don’t think it’s going to be one transaction, I don’t
think it’s going to happen within six months,” he said. “It’s
not our objective to fire-sale these things. It’s probably more
like a two-year time horizon kind of a deal.”  Textron plans to boost spending on research and development
by 22 percent to about $590 million, Chief Financial Officer
Frank Connor said. Pension costs this year will be little
changed at about $180 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  