-- Americas Petrogas Sees Fast Growth in Argentine Shale Output
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-25T21:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/exxon-americas-petrogas-see-phenomenal-tight-gas-potential-in-argentina.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Americas
Petrogas Inc. (BOE)  have “phenomenal” tight natural-gas prospects in
 Argentina  and expect “explosive” output growth in 5 years,
said Guimar Vaca Coca, managing director of Americas Petrogas.  Petrogas expects shale-oil and gas output to reach at least
10,000 barrels a day by 2017, Vaca Coca said in an interview in
Buenos Aires today. The two companies are investing about $50
million to drill wells in Argentina’s southern Patagonia region
this year and expect to invest $1.5 billion to $2 billion by
that date.  Argentina’s shale oil and so-called tight-gas resources may
exceed the 774 trillion cubic feet (21.9 trillion cubic meters)
estimated by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, Vaca
Coca said. Argentina’s shale resources are the third-largest in
the world after  China  and the U.S., the EIA said in an April
2011  report .  “In the first well we drilled, we found excellent signs of
tight gas,” Vaca Coca said on the sidelines of an  American
Business  Conferences  event . “We’re going to concentrate on
testing the shale-gas prospects first and then we’ll examine the
tight gas ones.”  Petrogas rose 2.2 percent to C$3.72 in Toronto. Irving,
Texas-based Exxon gained 0.1 percent to $87.22 in  New York .  YPF Discovery  Exxon, the largest U.S. oil company, and Calgary-based
Petrogas, are drilling at the same Vaca Muerta formation in the
Neuquen Basin where  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest energy company,
made its biggest discovery of 927 million barrels of shale-oil
resources on Nov. 7.  YPF’s discovery at the Loma La Lata field in Neuquen
province was six times more than previously estimated. At the
Vaca Muerta formation, 15 wells are producing between 200 and
600 barrels of oil a day, YPF, controlled by Madrid-based  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) , said in November.  Shale producers use a technique known as hydraulic
fracturing, which involves pumping water, sand and chemicals
underground to extract gas embedded in the rock.  Exxon and Petrogas are exploring three wells this year at
the Los Toldos blocks, which cover 163,500 acres in the Neuquen
Basin, and Petrogas is drilling another well in the Yerba Buena
block, Vaca Coca said today.  Petrogas expects to have conventional oil and gas output of
20,000 to 25,000 barrels a day and be one of Argentina’s top 10
oil producers within 5 years, he said.  China’s technically recoverable shale-gas resources are
estimated at 1,275 trillion cubic feet, while the U.S. has 862
trillion cubic feet of resources, according to the EIA report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  