-- Facebook Trades to Be Halted for Three Days
-- B y   A r i   L e v y ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-01-25T16:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/facebook-trading-is-said-to-be-halted-for-three-days-on-secondary-markets.html
Shareholders of Facebook Inc., the
social-networking site preparing an initial public offering, are
facing a three-day suspension of trading on secondary markets
this week, people with knowledge of the matter said.  While buy and sell orders can be made, transactions won’t
be processed by Facebook’s attorneys at Fenwick & West LLC from
today until Jan. 27, said the people, who declined to be named
because details on secondary transactions are kept private. The
halt pertains to trading of Facebook shares only, one of the
people said.  Facebook, the world’s largest social network, is
considering raising about $10 billion in an IPO that would value
the company at more than $100 billion, a person with knowledge
of the situation said in November. Private companies sometimes
halt trading to ascertain how many shareholders they have, said
 Barry Silbert , chief executive officer of SecondMarket Inc., an
exchange where Facebook shares are traded.  Speaking at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland ,
he declined to comment on Facebook in particular.  Some companies suspend trading ahead of a filing to make
sure that investors can’t buy or sell until all of the
information is public, said Sam Hamadeh, chief executive officer
of New York-based PrivCo.  “Facebook and companies who do this don’t want to expose
themselves to lawsuits related to the fact that some people had
it before others and were able to trade on it,” said Hamadeh,
whose firm provides research on more than 30,000 private
companies.  IPO Filing Timing  This week’s halt doesn’t necessarily mean the filing is
imminent, the people familiar with the matter said.  Private shares can still be traded on secondary markets
between the time of the filing and the IPO, though companies are
more likely to restrict the transactions closer to the public
offering, Hamadeh said.  Employees and early stakeholders have been able to sell
shares privately using exchanges such as SharesPost Inc. and
SecondMarket. Buyers are typically institutional investors.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment, as did Merredith Branscombe, a
spokeswoman for Fenwick & West. Representatives of  New York- 
based SecondMarket, and SharesPost, based in San Bruno,
 California , also declined to comment.  Facebook is valued at $73.4 billion on  SharesPost’s 
website, an estimate that takes into account transaction prices,
research estimates and financing round valuations. The last
contract listed on SharesPost was completed yesterday at $34.50
a share, or an implied valuation of $82 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  