-- Fed: Benchmark Rate Will Stay Low Until ’14
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-25T21:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/fed-says-benchmark-interest-rate-will-remain-low-until-at-least-late-2014.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
 Federal Reserve  is considering additional asset purchases to
boost growth after extending its pledge to keep interest rates
low through at least late 2014.  Policy makers are “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress
towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if inflation
shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent
rate,” Bernanke said at a news conference today after a Federal
Open Market Committee meeting in  Washington . Bond buying is “an
option that’s certainly on the table.”  Stocks and Treasuries rose after the Fed extended its
previous pledge to keep borrowing  costs  low at least until the
middle of 2013. Fed officials lowered their forecasts for
economic growth and price increases this year and in 2013 and
set a long-term goal of 2 percent inflation.  “What they’re doing is setting the table for some sort of
additional monetary easing,” said Scott Minerd, chief
investment officer in  Santa Monica ,  California  for Guggenheim
Partners LLC. “The changes in the statement from last month de-
emphasize growth.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent to
1,326.06 at 4:07 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the current
five-year note fell 10 basis points to 0.80 percent after
touching the record low of 0.76 percent.  “The Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative
stance for monetary policy,” the FOMC said in a statement.
“Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014.”  Growth Forecast  The Fed lowered its forecast for growth this year to 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent, down from a projection of 2.5 percent to
2.9 percent in November. It predicted the economy next year will
expand 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast
of 3.0 percent to 3.5 percent.  The Fed has been “quite active” in its accommodative
policies, including through the extension of the rate commitment
today, Bernanke said.  “We hope to convey to the market the extent to which there
is support on the committee for maintaining rates at a low level
for a significant time,” he said.  In a separate statement of its long-range goals and
strategy, the FOMC specified a 2 percent goal for inflation, as
measured by the annual change in the  price index  for personal
consumption expenditures.  ‘Firmly Anchored’  “Communicating this inflation goal clearly to the public
helps keep longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored,
thereby fostering  price stability ,” the panel said in a
statement. It also enhances “the committee’s ability to promote
maximum employment in the face of significant economic
disturbances.”  Policy makers declined to specify a goal for employment,
saying that it “is largely determined by non-monetary
factors.” The committee’s longer-run forecast for the jobless
rate is 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  The Fed said it would continue to extend the average
maturity of its $2.6 trillion securities portfolio, a move
dubbed “Operation Twist.” The Fed also maintained its policy
of reinvesting maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed
securities.  Bernanke said that the extension of the “expected point of
takeoff” for rising  interest rates  to 2014 implies that asset
sales by the Fed would occur “later than previously thought,”
and “presumably in 2015.”  Omit Description  Richmond Federal Reserve Bank President  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissented because he “preferred to omit the description of the
time period over which economic conditions are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate,” according
to the FOMC statement.  Recent reports on manufacturing, housing and employment
indicated that the economy was picking up speed as the new year
began.  Employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice the
previous month’s pace, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5
percent from 8.7 percent the month before.  Household wealth is getting a boost from rising stock
prices. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index climbed 4.5 percent in
2012 through yesterday, the best start to the year since 1997,
when it rallied 6.1 percent in the first 14 days.  Motorcycle Maker  Harley-Davidson Inc., the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker,
reported $54.6 million income from continuing operations in the
fourth quarter compared with a loss of $42.1 million a year
earlier. Sales at the maker of Fat Boy and V-Rod motorcycles
rose 12 percent in the U.S.  “There has certainly been some encouraging news
recently,” Bernanke said. Still, “we continue to see headwinds
from  Europe , coming from the slowing global economy and some
other factors as well.”  The Fed is not “ready to declare that we’ve entered a new
stronger phase” for the  U.S. economy , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage at 
 Csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  