-- Fed Likely to Focus on Housing-Debt Purchases in Any Move to Spur Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-25T14:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/fed-likely-to-focus-on-housing-debt-purchases-in-any-move-to-spur-economy.html
Federal Reserve policy makers will
probably buy mortgage bonds should the economy warrant more
easing, with purchases of all debt totaling $500 billion,
according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Forty-six percent of economists say a new round of bond
buying would consist entirely of mortgage-backed securities,
while 35 percent predict it would also include Treasuries. None
of the 56 economists in the survey expect the central bank would
purchase only Treasuries.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Jan. 4 letter to
Congress that housing is “blunting” the impact from  interest
rates  near zero and impeding economic growth. By purchasing more
mortgage bonds, Bernanke would aim to cut the cost of home
loans, spurring refinancing and sales of residential properties.
Most economists said they don’t expect the Fed to announce more
asset purchases today.  “Housing has been a critical piece of prior recoveries,
and the  U.S. economy  is not likely to achieve sustained above-
trend growth without the participation of housing,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  resumed meeting at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington  and plans to release a policy statement at
12:30 p.m. after a two-day meeting. At 2 p.m., the central bank
for the first time will release forecasts from FOMC participants
for the main interest rate, and Bernanke at 2:15 p.m. plans to
hold a press conference.  Won’t Buy More  Economists are split on whether the Fed will buy more
assets, with half saying they don’t expect a third round of so-
called quantitative easing at any time, according to the Jan.
18-20 survey. Last month, 51 percent of surveyed economists
predicted the Fed won’t engage in more purchases.  Coronado is among those predicting the Fed will take
action. “They’re going to need to support the housing
markets,” she said. “They’re going to use that rationale to
announce a mortgage purchase program” during the second
quarter.  Of the 28 analysts who foresee new buying, 17 said the
purchases will begin in the second quarter of 2012. The central
bank has two-day meetings on April 24-25 and June 19-20, meaning
that Bernanke is scheduled to hold a press conference afterwards
in which he could explain such a move.  Headline Inflation  “I would say April is more likely than June” as the date
the Fed would announce bond purchases, said  Dana Saporta ,
director of U.S. economic research at Credit Suisse in New York.
“If we have a spurt in headline inflation that would make it
difficult for the Fed to come in with more accommodation. That
makes us think sooner is better than later.”  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds from December 2008 until June 2011, and 10-year
Treasury note yields climbed during both periods of quantitative
easing. The yield climbed from 2.2 percent on January 5, 2009,
when buying began, to 3.8 percent on March 31, 2010 when
purchases ended. The interest rate on a 30-year mortgage hovered
around 5 percent during this period.  During the second round of purchases from Nov. 12, 2010 to
June 30, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed from
2.79 percent to 3.16 percent. The central bank bought only  U.S.
Treasuries  during this time.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  backed new purchases of
mortgage bonds in an Oct. 20 speech, saying the move would offer
many of the same benefits as purchases of Treasuries while
having “more direct effects on the housing market.”  ‘Strong’ Case  Bernanke described purchases of mortgage-backed securities
as a “viable option” in a November press conference, while San
Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said Jan. 10 that he sees
a “strong” case for new purchases of mortgage bonds.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  told reporters on Jan.
13 that $600 billion in purchases, the same size as the second
round of quantitative easing, “would be quite a good place to
start.” Mortgage-backed securities “could be a perfectly fine
choice for those asset purchases,” he said.  Mortgage-bond purchases could push down the interest rate
on a 30-year mortgage to between 3 percent and 3.25 percent,
spurring housing sales, said  John Lonski , chief economist at
Moody’s Capital Markets Group in  New York . The current rate is
about 3.9 percent, according to  Freddie Mac .  Economists’ predictions for the size of a third round of
large-scale asset purchases by the Fed ranged from $200 billion
to $1 trillion, with $500 billion as the median estimate.  Sustained Recovery  Through such buying the Fed would target a housing sector
that has yet to show signs of a sustained recovery. An S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities dropped 3.4
percent in the year through October, and existing home sales
remain 15 percent below their 10-year average.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  estimated in a Jan. 6
speech that properties seized by lenders may increase to 1.8
million this year, and also in 2013, from about 1.1 million last
year and 600,000 in 2010.  In contrast, the U.S. expansion has shown signs of
strengthening. The  Department of Commerce  will report Jan. 27
that the economy grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012,
according to the median estimate of a separate Bloomberg Survey
of 78 economists. That would be the fastest pace since the
second quarter of 2010.  The  unemployment rate  fell in December to 8.5 percent, the
lowest since February 2009, and an index of sentiment among
homebuilders increased this month to the highest level since
June 2007.  “As I look ahead to 2012, I’m cautiously optimistic that
we’re seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see
signs of recovery,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Miami-based Lennar Corp., said on a Jan. 11 conference call.
Lennar is the third-largest U.S. home builder by revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  