-- Federal Reserve Sets Price Goal as Forecast for Inflation Falls Below 2%
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-25T22:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/federal-reserve-sets-price-goal-as-forecast-for-inflation-falls-below-2-.html
The  Federal Open Market Committee 
set a goal for 2 percent inflation and forecast that prices will
rise this year at a slower pace than their objective.  Inflation at that level “is most consistent over the
longer run with the  Federal Reserve ’s statutory mandate,” the
FOMC said in a statement on its longer-run goals.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference that
inflation below 2 percent, along with a decline in U.S.
unemployment that’s deemed too slow, may prompt Fed officials to
increase accommodation. The central bank has already kept
 interest rates  close to zero since December 2008 and expanded
its balance sheet by buying $2.3 trillion in bonds.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” he said.  The Fed joins central banks such as the Reserve Bank of  New
Zealand , the central bank of  Sweden  and the Bank of  Mexico  in
specifying an inflation goal. Unlike its counterparts, the U.S.
central bank must also follow a congressional mandate to promote
full employment, or the maximum amount of jobs created before
firms bid up wages.  The 2 percent inflation target has been years in the making
and was a primary goal for Bernanke, who mentioned it in his
nomination hearing in November 2005. The gauge of inflation used
by the Fed is called the personal consumption expenditures
index.  ‘Quite Low’  Bernanke said “there are a number of factors” suggesting
to policy makers that inflation will “be quite low” during the
next couple of years. He cited a flattening in commodity prices,
restrained pressure on wages and “well-anchored” inflation
expectations.  The Fed said in its statement on longer-run goals and
policy strategy that it would “not be appropriate” to fix a
goal for the  unemployment rate  because the elements that
determine maximum employment “change over time and may not be
directly measurable.”  In their forecasts of the economy, also released today, the
Fed said it would miss both of its current longer-run
objectives. Most policy makers see inflation at 1.4 percent to
1.8 percent in 2012, down from the 1.4 percent to 2 percent
range they expected in November.  Also, by the end of 2014 Fed officials expect unemployment
to range between 6.7 percent and 7.6 percent, according to the
forecasts. In contrast, most Fed officials say unemployment can
eventually fall to 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  This Month  The unemployment rate declined to 8.5 percent in December,
according to a report earlier this month from the Department of
Labor.  “At 8.5 percent we are comfortably above anyone’s
estimate” for the natural rate of unemployment, Bernanke said
in his press conference.  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
 New York , said in a Jan. 6 speech that the outlook for
unemployment “is unacceptably high relative to our dual mandate
and the outlook for inflation is moderate.”  Consequently, it’s “appropriate to continue to evaluate
whether we could provide additional accommodation in a manner
that produces more benefits than costs,” he said.  The 58-year-old Bernanke was a leading advocate of
inflation targeting as a Princeton University professor. He is
the author of “Inflation Targeting: Lessons from the
International Experience” with Columbia University economist
Frederic Mishkin, Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee
member  Adam Posen  and economist Thomas Laubach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  