-- Gasoline Rises on Speculation Plant Shutdowns May Reduce Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-25T14:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gasoline-rises-on-speculation-plant-shutdowns-may-reduce-supply.html
Gasoline rose on speculation that
refinery closures and unit shutdowns will reduce inventories of
the motor fuel on the East Coast.  Futures rose a day after  Hess Corp. (HES)  said it’s conducting a
technical assessment of the fluid catalytic cracker at its
gasoline-making Port Reading refinery in  New Jersey . Two
Pennsylvania refineries have shut, as well as a refinery in the
Virgin Islands that serves the Eastern U.S.  “With St. Croix out and possibly the Hess refinery, we
could see 800,000 barrels a day of capacity not here in the
spring and that’s what I think is underpinning the market,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 0.77 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $2.8127 a gallon at 9:44 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Hess said yesterday that the catalytic cracker, which makes
gasoline for the  New York  area, is malfunctioning. Hess will
continue to operate Port Reading “as long as it generates
acceptable financial returns,” Jay Wilson, vice president of
investor relations in New York, said in an interview yesterday.  Closing that refinery could mean losing as much as 50,000
barrels a day of gasoline, said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “Gasoline is being supported by refinery closures and the
Hess cat cracker issue,” Lipow said.  Delivery Point  New York Harbor is the delivery point for reformulated
gasoline blendstock, or RBOB, and heating oil futures on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That region is already facing
potential supply tightness after the shutdown of two
Pennsylvania refineries by  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Hovensa LLC, a partnership of Hess Corp. and  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , said on Jan. 18 it will shut the 350,000-barrel-a-
day St. Croix refinery in the U.S. Virgin Islands by mid-
February because the plant is losing money. That refinery
supplies products to the U.S. East Coast.  February-delivery heating oil fell 1.46 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.0096 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.379 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices were 8.6
percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  