-- Gates Says Global Economy, Euro Crisis Threaten Aid Programs
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-01-25T17:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gates-says-global-economy-euro-crisis-threaten-aid-programs.html
The global economic downturn and the
euro-zone crisis may stand in the way of efforts to reduce
poverty and disease around the world,  Microsoft Corp . chairman
and founder  Bill Gates  said today.  “It’s very easy to lose sight of the conditions of the
very poorest,” Gates said in a talk at the  London School of
Economics  sponsored by the  Global Poverty Project  charity.
“There are many things going on in terms of the euro-zone
crisis, budget cutbacks, that would make it easy to turn inward
and actually reduce the financing that has led to so much
progress.”  About 1.4 billion people live in conditions of “extreme”
poverty, according to the Global Poverty Project. Gates said
“incredible progress” had been made toward reducing poverty
and disease. He gave the examples of  India  not reporting a case
of polio for a year and advances in the development of new
vaccines for infectious diseases.  Donors to aid programs may have been discouraged from
further giving after reports of grants being misused in some
countries, the software company billionaire said. The  GAVI
Alliance  and the  Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria , both funded by Gates’ family charity, have said that
some grant recipients have misappropriated money.  “If people think that aid is spent corruptly and doesn’t
have an impact, they won’t stand behind it,” Gates said.  The Global Fund appointed Gabriel Jaramillo as general
manager, a new position that will help “ensure the institution
manages donor resources as efficiently and safely as possible,”
the Geneva-based fund said yesterday.  Michel Kazatchkine, the  executive director  for five years,
said he would step down in March after overseeing a transition
to Jaramillo, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  