-- Geithner Says Obama Won’t Ask Him to Remain Past First Term
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/geithner-doesn-t-expect-obama-to-ask-him-to-stay-if-he-wins-re-election.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the last member of the Obama administration’s original
economic team, said he doesn’t expect to remain in office if the
president is re-elected.  “He’s not going to ask me to stay on, I’m pretty
confident,” Geithner said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “I’m
confident he’ll be president. But I’m also confident he’s going
to have the privilege of having another secretary of the
Treasury.”  Geithner, 50, has led President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to
pull the  U.S. economy  out of the worst recession since World War
II, including overseeing bailouts of automakers  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, which have since emerged from
bankruptcy. Before joining the administration in 2009, Geithner
was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, playing a
key role in the government’s rescue packages for banks such as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   In the interview, Geithner said he would do “something
else” after leaving the Treasury Department, without specifying
what that would be. In August, an administration official said
Geithner would stay in his job at least through this year’s
presidential election.  Erskine Bowles, chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton , and Democratic Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota
could be among the potential candidates to succeed Geithner,
said Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the Cato Institute in Washington.  ‘Budget Hawk’  Conrad, 63, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee who
said a year ago he won’t seek another term, is “a serious
budget hawk on the left, well-liked and respected,” Calabria
said.  Bowles, 66, is the former co-leader of Obama’s commission
that drafted a plan to reduce the federal government’s debt.  Geithner told White House officials earlier last year that
he was considering leaving after negotiations on raising the
nation’s debt limit were completed. An agreement was signed into
law by Obama in August.  The Treasury secretary said in June that his son would be
returning to  New York  to finish high school, and that “I’m
going to be commuting for a while.”  Geithner is the last remaining member of Obama’s original
economic team after the departures of advisers including
National Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers, Office of
Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag , and Austan Goolsbee, who was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers
and later replaced  Christina Romer  as chairman.  Dodd-Frank  Geithner also said in the Bloomberg TV interview he wasn’t
concerned about Wall Street complaints over the Dodd-Frank Act’s
financial overhaul and regulation.  “I would not worry too much about them,” Geithner said.
“I would worry more about the basic confidence of Americans
that they’re going to face more opportunities, more likely to
find a job, keep a job, save for college, save for a dignified
retirement.”  Geithner said that “no industry likes reforms that change
the way we do business. But we’re doing that because we have to
protect the economy from ever facing again the type of crisis we
saw. And I am very confident that these reforms will make our
financial system a stronger financial system.”  The  unemployment rate  in December dropped to 8.5 percent,
almost a three-year low, and employers expanded payrolls by
200,000, twice the rate of the previous month and an indication
that the job market is gaining momentum.  The U.S. automobile industry is reviving after the Obama
administration helped push what ended up as an $82 billion
bailout. President  George W. Bush  also supported aid for the
industry as he was leaving office in late 2008.  Investing, Manufacturing  Geithner said he’s confident the administration, working
with Congress, can design changes in the corporate tax system to
“improve the incentives for investing, make manufacturing
stronger.” Manufacturing can play “a broader role” in the
economy, he said.  On  Europe , Geithner said leaders there are “making some
progress. They got a lot of work to do.” He said he tells
European leaders that they need to “put in place a stronger,
more credible firewall.”  Geithner is due to arrive today in Davos, Switzerland, for
the 42nd annual meeting of the  World Economic Forum , his sixth
trip to the continent since September.  He also spoke at an event held by the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce in North Carolina yesterday. Geithner visited the state
to tour a  Siemens AG (SIE)  energy plant and promote investments in
manufacturing and technology to create jobs.  Geithner last visited North Carolina in October when he
spoke at a  Corning Inc. (GLW)  factory and touted the president’s jobs
bill that later stalled in Congress.  North Carolina was one of two Southern states -- the other
was Virginia -- that swung for Obama in 2008 after decades of
voting for Republican presidential candidates. Obama defeated
Republican rival John McCain by 14,000 votes of almost 4.3
million ballots cast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  