-- General Dynamics Forecasts Earnings Short of Estimates
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-01-25T21:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/general-dynamics-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-17-on-charges-for-jet-unit.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , citing
weakening defense sales, forecast 2012 earnings below analysts’
estimates.  The maker of Abrams battle tanks and Gulfstream business
aircraft estimates its full-year net income from continuing
operations at $7.10 to $7.20 a share, Jay Johnson, the chairman
and chief executive officer, said today. The average estimate of
25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $7.62 a share.  General Dynamics’ defense sales may fall 1 percent to 2
percent this year amid uncertainty about the U.S. defense
budget, Johnson said on a conference call with analysts. He
cited presidential and congressional elections and “the looming
shadow” of automatic budget cuts, known as sequestration, that
might lead to Pentagon spending cuts of as much as $1 billion
over a decade.  “If sequestration were to occur as laid out today. it
would be very bad for defense and frankly for our country,”
Johnson said today. He said the decline in defense sales may be
offset by sales in the company’s aerospace unit, the maker of
Gulfstream  business jets .  General Dynamics rose 23 cents to $71.57 at the close in
 New York .  Fourth-quarter profit declined 17.3 percent because
performance fell short of expectations at a unit that outfits
and overhauls business jets, the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
company said earlier today.  Net Income Fell  Net income fell to $603 million, or $1.68 a share, from
$729 million, or $1.91 a share, a year earlier, General Dynamics
said in a statement. It missed the profit estimate of $1.99 a
share, the average of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 6.3 percent to $9.15 billion.  The company said the quarter’s earnings were reduced by
charges of $189 million at the company’s Switzerland-based Jet
Aviation unit, which maintains and refurbishes business jets
other than the company’s own Gulfstream aircraft. The company
took a writedown reflecting a loss of contracts and “an outlook
with substantially fewer business jets” than projected when it
acquired Jet Aviation in 2008, Johnson said.  The company’s defense business, which provided about 82
percent of its revenue last year, may be at risk because it is
more dependent on U.S. Army programs than its peers as defense
spending declines,  Douglas Harned , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein LLC in New York, wrote in a Jan. 20 note to clients.
Harned rates the stock market-perform.  Pentagon Cuts  The Pentagon must cut about $490 billion from its planned
spending over the next 10 years under budget-reduction
legislation, with an additional $500 billion if the automatic
cuts go through.  To counter the Pentagon’s budget reductions, Johnson has
said he has stepped up acquisitions to expand the company’s
reach beyond defense and aerospace.  In September, the Falls Church, Virginia-based company
spent $960 million to  acquire Vangent Inc. , a provider of
health-care information technology services. In December,
General Dynamics bought  Force Protection Inc. (FRPT) , a maker of mine-
clearing vehicles and armored trucks, in a deal valued at $360
million.  General Dynamics sees opportunities for more acquisitions
of defense companies “at good value,” Johnson said today on
the conference call.  Gulfstream Jets  Sales at the Aerospace unit, which makes Gulfstream jets
and also includes Jet Aviation, rose 47 percent to $1.86 billion
in the fourth quarter, while income fell 65 percent to $73
million.  Gulfstream deliveries of so-called green, or unfinished,
airplanes rose 75 percent, to 35 units, during the quarter
compared with the same period last year, the company said.  Johnson said he expected Gulfstream’s G650 and G280
business jets to win Federal Aviation Administration
certification and go into service by midyear.  Revenue at the Marine Systems unit, which builds nuclear-
powered submarines and U.S. Navy destroyers, rose 3.4 percent to
$1.76 billion. Profit rose 7.3 percent to $190 million. The unit
received a $280 million order from the U.S. Navy to convert
nuclear submarines for use in training.  Revenue at the Combat Systems unit, which manufactures
Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles, fell 3.2 percent to $2.6
billion, and profit fell 3 percent to $388 million. The unit
received a $950 million order from  Canada  to upgrade that
country’s fleet of LAV III light armored vehicles.  Sales at the Information Systems and Technology unit fell
0.5 percent to $2.9 billion, and profit rose 1.3 percent to $315
million.  For 2011, sales rose less than 1 percent to $32.7 billion,
aided by a 13.2 percent increase in the Aerospace unit. Sales at
the three other units fell. Profit from continuing operations
declined 2.9 percent for the year to $2.55 billion, or $6.94 a
share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  