-- Business Confidence in Germany Rises More Than Forecast to Five-Month High
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-25T10:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/german-business-confidence-increases-for-a-third-month-beating-forecasts.html
German  business confidence  jumped
more than economists forecast in January to a five-month high,
signaling  Europe ’s largest economy may avoid a recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 108.3 from 107.3 in
December. Economists predicted an increase to 107.6, according
to the median of 42 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . That’s
the third straight monthly increase.  The report, along with surveys showing manufacturing and
service industries expanded more than economists forecast this
month, adds to evidence that Germany has shaken off a probable
contraction in the fourth quarter. While the International
Monetary Fund yesterday cut its prediction for German expansion
this year, it said that the economy will weather a recession in
the region and keep growing.  “This is not only great news for  Germany , but also bodes
well for the euro area,” said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “Over the past 20
years, whenever the Ifo expectations component has risen three
months in a row it signaled a turning point also for the euro-
area economy. We should see some more green shoots across the
rest of Europe by the summer.”  German Reunification  Ifo’s gauge measuring executives’ expectations advanced to
100.9 from 98.6, while the  current-situation  index fell to 116.3
from 116.7.  The euro touched $1.3052 after the report was released
before slipping to $1.2986 at 11:19 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.4
percent. Two-year notes stayed lower, with the yield rising two
basis points today to 0.24 percent.  Germany’s statistics office said on Jan. 11 that the
economy probably shrank about 0.25 percent in the final three
months of last year. Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7
percent in 2010, which was the most since German reunification
two decades ago.  The country’s economic upswing has only come to “a
temporary halt,” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on
Jan. 23. While growth may stagnate in the first three months of
the year, “economic dynamism should return in the course of the
year.”  The IMF yesterday forecast growth of 0.3 percent in 2012.
While that’s lower than its previous estimate, it compares with
a contraction of 0.5 percent predicted for the euro region.  Cars and Machinery  Unemployment fell more than forecast in December as exports
of cars and machinery boomed and one of the mildest winters on
record helped support jobs in construction. The adjusted jobless
rate dropped to 6.8 percent, a two-decade low, which will help
bolster domestic demand.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Audi AG and Daimler AG, the
world’s three biggest luxury carmakers, all said this month they
plan to grow faster than competitors in 2012 after setting sales
records last year.  Even though policy makers are still grappling with the
region’s debt crisis and the risk of a credit crunch is not yet
banished,  consumer confidence  in the euro area, Germany’s
biggest export partner, unexpectedly rose this month. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said that 2012 will be
“a much better” year for the bloc.  “It obviously all depends on the crisis not blowing up
again,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London , who has revised his forecast for German
growth this year to 1.1 percent from 0.4 percent. “But for now,
there is real traction in the German economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  