-- German Retail Real Estate Is Favorite Pick in Europe for Investment Funds
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/german-real-estate-is-top-pick-in-europe-for-investment-funds.html
Germany  and Scandinavia are the most
favored investment locations in Europe for unlisted real-estate
funds because money managers perceive them as more likely to
weather the recession threatening the region, according to a
survey published today.  German retail properties were the top pick for a second
year in an annual survey of 121 investors and money managers by
the European Association for Investors in Non-Listed Real Estate
Vehicles, or  Inrev.  The respondents own or manage 1.66 trillion
euros ($2.16 trillion) of assets. Around 64 percent of them said
German retail is their preferred location and industry.  “Investors continue to show an aversion to risk, heading
for the seemingly safer havens of northern  Europe ,” said Casper
Hesp, the Amsterdam-based group’s director of research and
market information. “We’re seeing a shift away from southern
Europe.”  Germany’s economy , Europe’s largest, will probably grow 0.6
percent this year after a 3 percent expansion in 2011, the
Bundesbank predicts.  Consumer spending  is bolstering growth,
prompting real-estate investors to target large shopping centers
that dominate their local area and provide owners with a more
reliable return.  Property Deals  Two of continental Europe’s largest individual property
deals last year involved malls in Germany. TIAA-CREF acquired
the Perlach Einkaufs Passagen in a Munich suburb for more than
400 million euros, while Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
paid 650 million euros for a 50 percent stake in the CentrO mall
and leisure center in Oberhausen.  Sales of German retail properties totaled 7.69 billion
euros last year, a 46 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Shopping centers and stores in Scandinavia are the second
most popular real estate investments in Europe, Inrev’s survey
showed. Offices in the region were ranked third.  Last year’s largest deal in Scandinavia was the purchase of
three shopping centers in  Stockholm  for about 4 billion kronor
($580 million) by Swedish insurer AMF Pensionsfoersaekring AB’s
property unit.  French offices, which ranked second in last year’s survey,
slid to sixth behind French retail properties in the review of
preferred locations by property type, the survey showed.  The U.K. fell out of Europe’s top five investment
locations. A  monthly index  compiled by Investment Property
Databank Ltd. indicates that average property values are
falling. Most respondents in the Inrev survey said they plan to
reduce their holdings in  Portugal , while Italy and  Spain  were
also shunned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 