-- German Jobless Decline May Slow in 2012, Labor Minister Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-25T13:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/german-jobless-decline-may-slow-in-2012-labor-minister-says.html
German Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen comments on unemployment, the lack of skilled workers in
Europe’s largest economy and the challenges for 2012.  She spoke in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland.  On the labor market:  “The German labor market is like a rock. We do see risks
in the global economy, but German companies have a good order
backlog. Our main concern is how to find qualified workers.
 Germany  is in the middle of a demographic change. It could be an
opportunity. We’ll have to reposition ourselves to use knowledge
longer, but also in terms of prevention and health at companies.
We’ll have to promote women’s careers and we need to reposition
ourselves in terms of immigration of qualified staff.”  “The labor market is one of the big stabilizers in
Germany. Ten years ago we were the sick man of  Europe , now it’s
the job miracle.”  “The outlook for 2012 is for unemployment to decline
further if not at the same pace as last year. We still need to
remain vigilant. We have one million job vacancies. Germany
needs qualified workers. Companies need to change their
behavior. There are well-qualified women out there.”  “The labor market is very robust but we need to remain
vigilant. Short-term labor has significantly decreased.”  On the euro-area crisis:  “A single currency means a joint budget discipline. That
has been accepted. In the medium to long-term, confidence in
Europe will only be reestablished if we prove that we’re
competitive. Every crisis can be a catharsis. We’re in the
middle of solving the most pressing problems and we have the
opportunity of setting the path for longer-term solutions.”  Asked whether there’s a risk of recession, she said “we
have to remain vigilant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  