-- German Business Confidence Probably Climbed to Five-Month High
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/german-business-confidence-probably-climbed-as-threat-of-recession-receded.html
German  business confidence  probably
rose to a five-month high in January as  Europe ’s largest economy
showed signs of avoiding a recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.6 from 107.2 in
December, according to the median forecast of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the highest since August
and the third straight increase. The institute will release the
report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The report, along with surveys showing manufacturing and
service industries expanded more than economists forecast this
month, would add to evidence that Germany has shaken off a
probable contraction in the fourth quarter. While the
International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its prediction for
German expansion this year, it said that the economy will
weather a recession in the region and keep growing.  “The way it looks now is that the recession won’t be
visiting  Germany ,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “The economy is exceptionally robust, order books are
full, domestic demand is strong and, maybe hard to believe for
some, there is no sense of crisis here.”  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  may have increased to
116.8 from 116.7, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably advanced to 99 from 98.4, the survey of
economists shows.  Germany’s statistics office said on Jan. 11 the economy
probably shrank about 0.25 percent in the final three months of
last year. Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7 percent
in 2010, which was the most since German reunification two
decades ago.  ‘Weak Phase’  The country’s economic upswing has only come to “a
temporary halt,” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said
yesterday. While growth may stagnate in the first three months
of the year, “economic dynamism should return in the course of
the year.”  The IMF yesterday forecast growth of 0.3 percent in 2012.
While that’s lower than its previous estimate, it compares with
contraction of 0.5 percent predicted for the euro region.  Unemployment fell more than forecast in December as exports
of cars and machinery boomed and one of the mildest winters on
record helped support jobs in construction. The adjusted jobless
rate dropped to 6.8 percent, a two decade low, which will help
bolster domestic demand.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Audi AG and Daimler AG, the
world’s three biggest luxury-carmakers, all said this month they
plan to grow faster than competitors in 2012 after setting sales
records last year.  Consumer Confidence   Even though policy makers are still grappling with fixing
the region’s debt crisis and the risk of a credit crunch is not
yet banished, consumer confidence in the euro area, Germany’s
biggest export partner, unexpectedly rose this month. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said that 2012 will be
“a much better” year for the bloc.  “It obviously all depends on the crisis not blowing up
again,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London, who has revised his forecast for German
growth this year to 1.1 percent from 0.4 percent. “But for now,
there is real traction in the German economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  