-- German Solar Subsidies at Stake as Ministers Clash Over Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-25T13:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/german-solar-subsidies-at-stake-as-ministers-clash-over-cuts.html
Germany ’s solar subsidy program, the
subject of dispute between two ministers in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet, will take shape today as lawmakers debate
support for developers in  Europe ’s biggest renewables market.  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who heads the Free
Democratic Party junior coalition partner, proposes overhauling
clean-energy support by capping new solar installations to curb
costs. Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen, of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , is seeking to increase the frequency of
subsidy cuts and has in the past opposed a fixed limit.  The positions will be tested at a meeting of coalition
lawmakers in Berlin at 3 p.m. local time. They underscore
tensions inside Merkel’s government over support for renewable
energy, which provides a fifth of Germany’s electricity.  Subsidy cuts would threaten German solar companies such as
 Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Conergy AG (CGYK) , which are already struggling with
rising competition from  China  where the world’s three largest
panel makers are based. Reducing support also may undermine the
government’s efforts to develop more low-carbon power sources to
replace nuclear stations that Merkel plans to close by 2022.  Bring to Standstill  Introducing an installation cap or abolishing the law on
renewables would “bring to a standstill the switch to clean-
energy sources,” the BEE renewable-energy lobby and its allies
from consumer and environment groups said in a  letter  to the
chancellor on Jan. 20.  A cap would mean “photovoltaic is dead in Germany,” said
 Franz Fehrenbach , chief executive officer of  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
the German car-parts supplier that’s pursuing a 1.5 billion-euro
($1.9 billion) push into solar energy, according to Reuters.  A draft bill dated Jan. 12 and sent by Roesler’s ministry
to coalition lawmakers proposes to limit solar-panel
installations to about 1 gigawatt a year on average through
2020. Germany added a record 7.5 gigawatts of panels in 2011,
more than double the government’s target.  Solar power “is the biggest cost-driver in the system,”
the ministry said in a letter detailing the plan obtained by
Bloomberg News. “There is urgent pressure to act.”  That runs counter to proposals being touted by Roettgen,
who is responsible for renewable-energy law in Germany and has
the final say on the policy before it goes to Cabinet.  Regular Rate Cuts  The environment minister has rejected Roesler’s demands for
an installation cap and proposed instead more regular cuts to
subsidies. Roettgen told solar industry representatives last
week he wanted to reduce the feed-in tariff, a premium rate for
renewable power, monthly instead of twice a year.  “That model won’t work because prices for solar products
are dropping quicker than subsidies,” Joachim Pfeiffer, the
CDU’s economic policy spokesman, said today by telephone. “A
hard cap or a quick one-time subsidy cut of about 30 percent
would help, and that’s why Roesler’s proposal makes sense.”  Roettgen may detail his plan for an overhaul of solar
subsidies at today’s coalition meeting, according to Pfeiffer
and Horst Meierhofer, a Free Democratic Party lawmaker.  While there’s no timeframe for a revision of the renewable-
energy law, Roettgen has said any changes should be carried out
“quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  