-- Giants’ November Road Win Over Patriots Bodes Ill for Them in Super Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-25T16:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/giants-november-road-win-over-patriots-bodes-ill-for-them-in-super-bowl.html
The  New York Giants  were the last
team to beat  Tom Brady  and the  New England Patriots , ending
their 20-game home winning streak 2 1/2 months ago.  History suggests that may be a good thing for the Patriots.  When the teams meet on Feb. 5 in Indianapolis, it will mark
the 13th time in 46 years that the Super Bowl participants also
played each other during the regular season. The squads that won
the first meeting produced a 5-7 record in the  National Football
League ’s championship game, including losses in five of the past
six rematches.  “We’ll obviously look hard at the first game, but knowing
Coach Belichick and their staff they’ll have a new game plan,
they’ll have some new wrinkles in there,” Giants quarterback
 Eli Manning , 31, told reporters after practice yesterday. “We
have to give credit to them. They’ll be well prepared.”  The Patriots won the first of three  Super Bowl  titles under
Bill Belichick after the 2001 season by defeating the St. Louis
Rams, a franchise they lost to in Week 10.  The Giants got revenge on the Patriots four years ago,
ending New England’s pursuit of a perfect season with a 17-14
Super Bowl victory five weeks after losing 38-35 in the final
game of the regular season. The Giants also took the rematch in
the Super Bowl after the 1990 season, with a 20-19 victory over
the Buffalo Bills, who beat them in Week 15.  Late Rally  The Giants beat the Patriots 24-20 on Nov. 6 in Foxborough,
 Massachusetts , by scoring two touchdowns in the final 3 minutes,
3 seconds, including the game-winning score with 15 seconds
left.  New York’s defense forced four turnovers in that game,
including two interceptions and a fumble by Brady.  “That game was so long ago,” said Giants linebacker
Michael Boley, who had 10 tackles, one of his team’s two sacks
and a forced fumble in the first meeting. “A lot has changed
not only with their team, but ours.”  Defensive end  Justin Tuck  said the Giants draw confidence
from winning in  New England  in Week 9 when wide receiver Hakeem Nicks and running back  Ahmad Bradshaw  were out with injuries.  “The biggest thing for us was that it has been a
confidence boost playing how we played against teams when we
weren’t at full strength,” Tuck told reporters. “We are
probably as healthy as we have been all year and we have
everybody back that we came into the season with. We feel very
confident that we can play with anybody.”  New England has won 10 straight games since its loss to the
Giants and enters the Super Bowl as 3-point favorites, according
to oddsmakers.  Rematch Successes  Belichick said he recognizes that the Giants and coach Tom Coughlin have had success in rematches this postseason.  New York 
beat Green Bay in the second round of the playoffs after losing
to the Packers in Week 13, and then won the National Football
Conference championship game in  San Francisco  after losing to
the 49ers in Week 10.  “Tom and his staff have done a great job of pulling the
schemes together and putting their players in productive
positions where they can excel,” Belichick said yesterday on a
media conference call. “They’ve performed well under pressure
in critical games. They’ve played some of their best football
when they’ve had to.”  The Giants have won five of their past six postseason
rematches, including wins over  Dallas , Green Bay and the
Patriots during their championship run after the 2007 season.
They lost to all three of those teams in the regular season.  “It’s a great credit to their organization, their coaching
staff and their team,” Belichick said. “We know this is the
best team we’ve played. This is going to take our best game and
that’s the way it should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  