-- Giants-Patriots Super Bowl Replay May Prove Lucrative for David Tyree
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/giants-patriots-super-bowl-replay-may-prove-lucrative-for-david-tyree.html
David Tyree made hundreds of
thousands of dollars by pinning a football to his  New York
Giants  helmet four years ago and holding on. He’s set for
another payday two years after playing his last National
Football League game.  With about 97 million Americans watching, Tyree gained
instant fame on Feb. 3, 2008, making one of the most memorable
catches in  Super Bowl  history in a championship-winning drive as
the Giants upset the New England Patriots 17-14.  The result was at least one sponsorship deal worth $100,000
or more, appearance and speaking fees and a book deal, according
to the 32-year-old Tyree. With the Giants and Patriots back in
this year’s Super Bowl, Tyree may be looking at a second wave of
marketing dollars as fans and companies relive the play.  “A few months earlier we were begging a mall to put
together a $2,000 appearance for him,” his agent, Michael
Clouser, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Then they
were all calling us, offering six-digit packages and
spokesperson deals. It blew up.”  Both Clouser and Al Mercado, who handles Tyree’s marketing
opportunities, declined to identify specific deals the former
player signed or how much they were worth.  Tyree’s fame might have been worth mid-six-figure-dollar
deals the following year, according to Peter Raskin, a marketing
agent with the Legacy Agency, whose clients include the  Detroit
Lions ’ Ndamukong Suh and  Mark Ingram  of the  New Orleans Saints .  “He’ll be sought after for personal appearances around
this Super Bowl, too,” Raskin said in an interview.  Indianapolis Presence  This year’s title game is in Indianapolis on Feb. 5 and
Tyree said he’ll be there that week taking advantage of
marketing opportunities, with a bit more selectivity than four
years ago.  “I wouldn’t have any of it if it wasn’t for the catch,”
Tyree said on a conference call with reporters yesterday. “My
opportunities were very far and few.”  Tyree had four catches during the 2007 regular season as
the Giants won 10 straight road games before playing undefeated
 New England  for the championship in Glendale,  Arizona . He caught
three passes that day, including a fourth-quarter touchdown.
None was more memorable than his 16-second play on the final
drive.  Memorable Play  New York trailed by four points, with third-and-five on its
44-yard line and 1:15 remaining in the fourth quarter.
Quarterback Eli Manning avoided three would-be tacklers,
spinning and reversing direction before throwing the ball
downfield.  Tyree leaped through the arms of New England safety Rodney Harrison and caught the ball by pinning it against the top of
his own helmet, maintaining possession as Harrison dragged him
to the ground for a 32-yard gain. The Giants scored on Manning’s
pass to  Plaxico Burress  with 35 seconds remaining to win the
title.  Steve Sabol, the president of NFL Films Inc., called
Tyree’s catch the greatest play in Super Bowl history.  The result was a crush of requests for Tyree’s services as
a pitchman or celebrity speaker and guest. He rarely turned down
the offers, he said.  “I felt like, at that time, I had to take advantage of
those opportunities,” Tyree said. “I was at a point where I
never had any opportunity in my life so when somebody said come
do an appearance, we’ll give you 10 to 15K -- shoot, I’m
there.”  Non-Stop Calls  With the Giants’ 9-7 regular season and postseason run to
the Super Bowl this season, Tyree and his agents said the phone
has been ringing nonstop with appearance offers. The benefit of
a few years of maturity, he said, has made him more judicious.  “I’m honored to be part of the journey, but I don’t feel
like I have to take advantage of every opportunity,” said
Tyree, now more focused on his home life as a father of six.  The catch, which Tyree reluctantly re-enacted while posing
for photographs last week to light the Empire State Building
Giants’ blue, was the last of his NFL career.  He missed the 2008 season after knee surgery in July. He
was waived in September 2009 at the end of training camp and
signed in October with the  Baltimore Ravens , playing 10 games,
mostly on special teams. He signed a one-day contract with New
York to retire as a Giant in July 2010.  Tyree is now the director of strategic partnerships for New
York-based Tepidus Group, a financial-planning company with a
unit focused on philanthropic endeavors such as building
orphanages.  Back in Spotlight  In June he returned to the spotlight, receiving criticism
after publicly opposing same-sex marriage before New York
lawmakers passed a law allowing it later that month.  “I got tons of flack, but I expected that,” he said. “I
knew what I was getting myself into.”  The spotlight is likely to be kinder to him over the next
couple of weeks.  “It’s a great opportunity for me to be a part of the
Giants’ tradition,” Tyree said. “I’m sure there’s going to be
some opportunities to push some more coin and keep these six
kids fed, so we’ll see how that goes, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  