-- Giffords Ends Congressional Career With Unanimous Vote to Pass Border Bill
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-01-25T16:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/giffords-ends-congressional-career-with-unanimous-vote-to-pass-border-bill.html
On the last day of her five years in
Congress, U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords entered the
House chamber to a standing ovation, then cast a vote for a bill
she had co-sponsored, addressing smuggling on the U.S.-Mexico
border.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, kissed her
after accepting her letter of resignation, effective at the end
of the day. Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
praised the Arizona Democrat for her “courage, her strength and
her downright fortitude after what could have been a life-ending
bullet to the head.”  “We are inspired, hopeful and blessed for the incredible
progress that Gabby has made in her recovery,” Cantor said.  “I am so proud of my friend,” Florida Democrat Debbie Wasserman Schultz said, wiping away tears and holding Giffords’s
hand before reading the resignation letter aloud. “She will
return one day to public service.”  Giffords wrote, “I have given all of myself to being able
to walk back onto the House floor this year to represent
 Arizona ’s 8th Congressional District. However, today I know that
now is not the time. I have more work to do on my recovery
before I can serve in elected office.”  Giffords was shot in the head on Jan. 8, 2011, by a gunman
who wounded 12 others and killed six people, including a member
of her staff. She is recovering from brain surgery and facial
reconstruction and has required physical therapy to regain
mobility.  Giffords’s husband,  Mark Kelly , a retired astronaut and
Navy captain, listened to today’s tributes from the House
gallery. Cantor said a phone call from Kelly led to him
scheduling the vote on the smuggling bill, H.R. 3801, for today.
The measure passed, 408-0.  The bill would outlaw the use of ultralight aircraft used
to smuggle drugs. Giffords’s congressional district includes
part of Arizona’s southern border with  Mexico . The legislation,
which the Senate could clear as early as tomorrow, would subject
violators to up to 20 years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  