-- Gingrich Firm Will Release Second Contract
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-01-25T00:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gingrich-firm-says-it-will-release-second-freddie-mac-contract.html
Newt Gingrich ’s former consulting
firm has found a second contract between the Republican
presidential hopeful and  Freddie Mac (FRE)  and will release it after
10 p.m., a company spokeswoman said.  The release of the second document comes a day after the
firm, the Center for Health Transformation, posted a contract
for Gingrich’s service to the mortgage company in 2006. Freddie
Mac paid Gingrich at least $1.6 million for advice over a period
of eight years, from 1999 to 2007.  The contract to be released tonight covers the work
Gingrich did beginning in 1999, said Center for Health
Transformation spokeswoman Susan Meyers, who is also a
spokeswoman for the Gingrich campaign.  The former U.S. House speaker has faced mounting calls for
more details about his work with the home mortgage company. Many
Republicans have criticized  Freddie Mac  because the company
invested in risky mortgages and then needed billions of dollars
in taxpayer money for a bailout after the housing market
meltdown.  Gingrich, who is trying to win Florida’s Jan. 31 primary
after defeating rival  Mitt Romney  in  South Carolina ’s race Jan.
21, has repeatedly said that he didn’t lobby for Freddie Mac.  The 2006 contract contained just one sentence describing
the “scope of services” that Gingrich provided to the office
headed by Freddie Mac’s chief lobbyist. In exchange for $25,000
a month, the Gingrich Group would “provide consulting and
related services as requested by Freddie Mac’s director, public
policy,” according to the contract. The Gingrich Group was
subsequently absorbed by the Center for Health Transformation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  