-- Gingrich Hired by Freddie Mac in 1999 to Achieve Business Goals
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-25T05:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gingrich-hired-by-freddie-mac-in-1999-to-achieve-business-goals.html
Newt Gingrich ’s former consulting
firm released a second contract with  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
government-backed mortgage company, signed in July 1999 that
required the former U.S. House speaker to help develop messages
that would “contribute to the achievement of Freddie Mac
business goals.”  The agreement, which guaranteed $520,000 in annual payment
to the Gingrich Group, the previous name of his consulting arm,
also called on the Republican presidential hopeful to advise on
“strategic planning and public policy” and engage in
discussions with Mitchell Delk, then the company’s head
lobbyist, and other company officials.  The contract included a provision that said Gingrich and
his firm would “not provide lobbying services of any kind.”
The 1999 contract, signed months after Gingrich had resigned his
House seat and speakership under pressure from his Republican
caucus, also imposed standard government airfare, hotel and
mileage reimbursement rates and limited incidental costs to $65
a day -- expense restrictions not included in a second contract
with  Freddie Mac  that he signed seven years later.  Gingrich’s initial Freddie Mac contract was posted last
night on the web site of the Center for Health Transformation,
the new name of the former Georgia congressman’s consulting
company.  Eight Years, $1.6 Million  The release of the document came amid mounting calls for
details about Gingrich’s work for the home mortgage company.
Overall, Freddie Mac paid Gingrich at least $1.6 million for
advice over a period of eight years, from 1999 to 2007.  The contract made public last night covers the work
Gingrich did during his first stint as adviser to Freddie Mac
from 1999 to 2002, said Susan Meyers, a spokeswoman for both the
Center for Health Transformation and the Gingrich campaign.
Employees of the center spent the day combing through file boxes
that had been placed in storage for documents related to the
Freddie Mac contracts, she said in a telephone interview.  Many Republicans have criticized Freddie Mac because the
company invested in risky mortgages and then needed billions of
dollars in taxpayer money for a bailout after the housing market
meltdown.  Gingrich, who is trying to win Florida’s Jan. 31 primary
after two fourth-place primary finishes in  Iowa  and  New
Hampshire  that preceded his victory over rival  Mitt Romney  in
 South Carolina ’s race Jan. 21, has rebutted Romney’s
characterization of his work for Freddie Mac as lobbying.  Not a Lobbyist  The 1999 contract states that Gingrich wasn’t hired to
lobby his former House colleagues. However, the contract also
makes clear that Gingrich was engaged to help Freddie Mac pitch
its business model to Republicans who were threatening to rein
in the government-backed agency and impose more oversight on it.  Delk told Bloomberg News in a November interview that he
hired Gingrich to provide advice on issues such as expanding
home ownership among Hispanics and on how to make the company’s
message resonate with Republicans.  “What he did was provide counsel on public policy
issues,” Delk said. “There was no expectation that he would do
any lobbying, and he did not do any lobbying.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, and his allies say
Gingrich acted as a lobbyist even if he didn’t fit the technical
definition.  ‘Influence Peddler’  “The speaker for the last 10 years has been an influence
peddler in  Washington ,” New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  told
reporters in Trenton on Jan. 23. “If the speaker’s
uncomfortable with that, I understand why he would be. It’s not
necessarily a normal qualification for the president of the
 United States .”  Under attack by Romney as “an influence peddler in
Washington,” Gingrich said during a Jan. 23 debate in Tampa
that his consulting firm had hired an attorney to train staffers
and ensure that they didn’t cross the line into lobbying.  That consultant, Thomas Susman, said yesterday that he had
advised Gingrich on federal and state laws beginning in 2000.  “The assignment was simply to do some training for his
associates, provide materials, and to respond to questions and
guide him so he would not be required to register as a
lobbyist,” Susman, now director of government affairs for the
 American Bar Association , said in a telephone interview.  Florida  Housing  Gingrich’s ties to Freddie Mac have garnered added interest
in Florida, which ranks seventh in the U.S. in the rate of
 foreclosure filings  per household. Many Republicans have
criticized Freddie Mac because the company invested in risky
mortgages and then needed billions of dollars in taxpayer money
for a bailout after the housing market meltdown.  “You could have spoken out in a way to say these guys are
wrong, this needs to end,” Romney told Gingrich during the
debate. “But instead, you were being paid by them. You were
making over $1 million at the same time people in Florida were
being hurt by millions of dollars.”  While consulting contracts in the business world often have
specific project goals and deadlines, the brief description of
services in the 2006 Freddie Mac contract is “not unusual” for
a Washington agreement, said Howard Marlowe, president of the
 American League  of Lobbyists in Alexandria, Virginia.  Bob Barr, a former U.S. representative who, like Gingrich,
represented  Georgia , said he had undertaken similar contracts.  “There’s nothing at all unusual about a broad description
and a monthly fee,” said Barr, who has endorsed Gingrich.
“He’s a very bright guy and knows a lot about almost everything
that goes on in Washington and, to me, would be a tremendously
valuable” consultant, Barr said.  Main Contact  According to the 2006 contract, Gingrich’s main contact at
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac in 2006 was Craig Thomas,
director of public policy and a registered lobbyist.  Former and current Freddie Mac executives told Bloomberg
News that Gingrich was hired at the time to develop an argument
on behalf of the company’s public-private structure that would
resonate with conservatives seeking to dismantle it. He wasn’t
asked to personally deliver that message on  Capitol Hill , they
said.  Romney may also be vulnerable on the issue. A disclosure
report filed in August 2011 shows he had a financial interest in
Freddie Mac and its sister company  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   The disclosure said he held assets in both Freddie Mac and
 Fannie Mae  valued at between $100,000 to $250,000. He received
between $5,001 and $15,000 in interest income from his Freddie
Mac assets and another $5,001 to $15,000 in interest income from
his Fannie Mae assets. Financial-disclosure reports allow
candidates to report assets in broad ranges.  Blind Trust  Romney’s campaign said his assets are in a blind trust, and
the trustee makes all the decisions about how they are invested.  One of Romney’s special advisers, former Minnesota
Republican Representative  Vin Weber , served as a lobbyist for
Freddie Mac, according to lobbying disclosures. His firm, Clark
& Weinstock, took in $180,000 from the company during the last
six months of 2006, according to its report.  Since September 2008, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, both now
operating under U.S. conservatorship, have cost a total of $153
billion in taxpayer aid.  The center released the contracts after several weeks in
which Gingrich gave varying reasons why he couldn’t do so.  At first he said he was bound by a confidentiality
agreement with Freddie Mac. After Freddie Mac officials said he
was “welcome” to make the contract public, he said the power
to release it lay with the Center for Health Transformation.  Stefan Passantino , the center’s attorney who also serves as
Gingrich’s campaign attorney, said earlier this month that he
wouldn’t allow the document to be released for fear of
jeopardizing confidentiality for the company’s other clients.
Passantino said in an e-mail this week that he changed his
position after he spoke with the general counsel at Freddie Mac
and “she expressly authorized release of the contract.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  