-- Glaxo’s Horlicks Health Drink Outsells Pepsi in India: Retail
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/glaxo-s-horlicks-health-drink-outsells-pepsi-in-india-retail.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s best-seller in
 India  isn’t a treatment for asthma or cancer. It’s a malted milk
drink called Horlicks.  The brand is India’s top packaged beverage behind bottled
water and sells more than twice as much as PepsiCo Inc.’s
namesake cola. Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, is seeking
to replicate that success in other  emerging markets  as it sheds
over-the-counter medicine brands sold mostly in the U.S.  “We are trying to take Horlicks into a mega-brand
strategy,” Zubair Ahmed, who heads  GlaxoSmithKline Consumer
Healthcare Ltd. (SKB)  in India, said in an interview.  So far, that has meant capitalizing on the brand’s
nutritional image to extend the Horlicks name to instant
“Foodles” noodles,  breakfast cereals  and biscuits. In coming
years, Glaxo plans to introduce ready-to-drink versions of the
powdered beverage and healthy snacks, Ahmed said.  The marketing of Horlicks is part of a broader push by
Glaxo into consumer products in India and China at a time when
the European debt crisis is placing downward pressure on prices.  While they have lower margins, consumer products provide
steady, low-risk revenue growth without patent expirations, said
Rajesh Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) at
DNCA Finance SA in Paris.  Stable Growth  “Consumer health care is a great additional reason to buy
Glaxo,” said Varma, who is considering purchasing the company’s
shares. “You’ve got revenue growth that is stable that won’t
fall off a cliff.”  Horlicks, along with Sensodyne toothpaste and Eno antacid,
helped push up Indian sales of Glaxo’s non-pharmaceutical
products 19 percent last year with operating profit growing just
as fast, Ahmed said. That compares with 1 percent  sales  growth
for the division in the U.S. in the nine months through
September and a 1 percent drop in Europe.  London-based Glaxo plans to expand distribution of its
consumer products to 50,000 rural Indian villages over four
years and spend as much as 40 million pounds ($62 million) to
boost production capacity at its three plants in the country,
Ahmed said. The company is also seeking wider distribution of
its Lucozade sports drink in  China  through a local partnership.  Glaxo’s consumer health sales in India totaled about 350
million pounds, or 9 percent of global sales for the division in
the nine months through September. Worldwide sales including
pharmaceuticals totaled 20.4 billion pounds in the period.  Horlicks History  Horlicks, a  138-year-old drink  similar to Ovaltine, is made
with malted barley and buffalo milk instead of cow milk for
cultural reasons in India. The drink’s popularity historically
stems from milk deficiencies in the eastern and southern regions
of the country due to poor infrastructure, Ahmed said. While the
drink mainly targets children, the company also sells a high-
nutrient version for adults and Mother’s Horlicks for pregnant
and breast-feeding women. It became part of Glaxo’s portfolio
when the drug giant merged with SmithkKline in 2000.  “Glaxo is building on the healthy nutrition heritage of
Horlicks in India,” said Richard Haffner, global head of
beverages research at Euromonitor International in  Chicago .
Horlicks was founded as an  infant formula  in the U.S. by British
brothers before finding use by armed forces during World War II
and athletes at the 1948  London  Olympics.  Tata Tea  Horlicks sold almost twice as much in India as Coca-Cola
Co.’s Thums Up soda, double Pepsi and brought in 50 percent more
revenue than Tata Global Beverages Ltd.’s Tata Tea last year,
according to Euromonitor, which doesn’t track sales of
unpackaged loose teas. The country’s best-selling packaged drink
is Parle Bisleri Pvt.’s Bisleri bottled water.  High levels of malnutrition and the large proportion of
children in India, which is even greater than in China, will
continue to drive sales of nutrition-related products, Ahmed
said. In urban areas growing popularity of fast foods is
contributing to an “exploding” antacid market, in which Glaxo
leads with its Eno product, he said.  Other drugmakers with consumer units include  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
maker of Aspirin, One-A-Day vitamins and Alka-Seltzer antacids,
and Novartis AG, which finished acquiring eye-care company Alcon
last year.  Consumer products carry lower development costs than
pharmaceuticals, said Navid Malik, an analyst at Cenkos
Securities Plc in London. Glaxo spends less than 4 percent of
sales on research and development in the consumer unit, compared
with 15 percent for  prescription drugs , he said.  Drug Setback  Glaxo’s pharmaceuticals division disappointed investors
when it said on Jan. 9 its experimental respiratory drug
Relovair didn’t prove superior to an existing medicine in a
late-stage study. Glaxo developed Relovair as a successor to
Advair, its best-selling drug, accounting for about a fifth of
global sales.  In December, Glaxo sold 17 over-the-counter brands
including digestive helpers Beano and Gaviscon to New York-based
Prestige Brands Holdings Inc. Glaxo is trying to sell a second
batch of over-the-counter products including the Alli diet pill
as quickly as possible, Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans
said on Jan. 10.  The brands being sold off are mainly available in the U.S.
and  Europe  and accounted for about 500 million pounds, or 10
percent of Glaxo’s revenue from consumer products in 2010. Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  is working to expand the
company’s business in oral health, wellness and nutrition,
segments which have more global potential, according to Gbola Amusa, a London-based analyst at UBS AG.  China Plans  Glaxo’s consumer health-care unit had 3.9 billion pounds in
sales, or 19 percent of global revenue, in the nine months ended
September. The unit’s 22 percent operating margin in the period
compares with 37 percent at the drug and vaccine business.  In China, helped by the introduction of Lucozade in 2010,
Glaxo’s consumer health-care sales grew more than 10 percent in
the first nine months of last year. Glaxo ended a two-year
 distribution agreement  with  Uni-President China Holdings Ltd. (220) 
late last year and is seeking an alternative strategy for
Lucozade, according to the company.  Glaxo may seek a similar agreement with or acquire a
bottler in  Latin America  to expand its beverage distribution,
Euromonitor’s Haffner said. Candidates could include  Colombia ’s
Postobon SA and Peru’s Aje Group, he said.  Demand for consumer staples in China, India and  Indonesia 
will account for a quarter of global spending for such products
by 2015, fund manager Varma said.  “Glaxo has strong growth in emerging markets and there’s
no reason why that shouldn’t continue,” Varma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  