-- GM Begins Volt Marketing Campaign as CEO Speaks at Hearing
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l ,   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-25T21:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gm-begins-volt-marketing-campaign-as-ceo-testifies-at-hearing.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , after a two-
month federal safety investigation cleared its Chevrolet Volt
plug-in vehicle of danger, is beginning a marketing effort to
tout the car as safe and innovative.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in a full-page
newspaper advertisement that the company “couldn’t be prouder”
of the Volt ahead of his testimony at a U.S. hearing today. The
Detroit-based automaker also introduced a new  television spot 
that first appeared on News Corp.’s Fox News channel.  Scrutiny of the Volt has caused “collateral damage,”
Akerson told reporters today after testifying before the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “We’re going to have
to go about reconstructing that image and we started that
today.”  Republicans on the committee released a report before
today’s hearing calling President  Barack Obama ’s relationship
with GM “unnatural” and a possible explanation for the U.S.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s delay in
disclosing a potential safety defect in the Volt. The panel is
probing the response to a June 6 fire in a Volt three weeks
after the car was crash-tested.  The Volt is “the most significant step in GM’s history to
give customers a choice beyond oil” and “a technological ‘moon
shot,’” Akerson wrote in the newspaper advertisement, which ran
in 19 daily newspapers today including the  New York  Times and
Gannett Co.’s USA Today. “The world is learning from  Detroit 
again. And we couldn’t be prouder.”  Volt Commercial  The television advertisement, which will be shown on other
outlets, features actor and comedian  Tim Allen  speaking about
the importance of innovation in America as workers assemble
Volts on the  production line  at GM’s Detroit-Hamtramck factory,
said  Rob Peterson , a spokesman.  “It’s a message that gets lost in these recent
discussions,” Peterson said in a phone interview. “What made
our country great is innovation, and we believe Volt represents
exactly that.”  GM rose 0.5 percent to $24.92 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 23 percent this year after a 45 percent drop
in 2011.  Akerson, 63, said today’s hearing was a positive for GM’s
efforts to get its message out that the Volt is safe. Tests by
GM and NHTSA found battery coolant can leak and catch fire in a
simulated rollover crash that punctures the battery compartment.  GM’s Fix  GM,  32 percent  owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, and
NHTSA disclosed the fire after Bloomberg News reported it in
November. The agency opened a formal investigation that month
and closed it last week, saying electric cars posed no more of a
fire risk than gasoline-powered models, after GM announced a fix
for current and future Volts, avoiding a formal recall.  GM denied the House committee’s allegations that the Obama
administration is involved in its operations.  “The administration’s been true to their word from the
start and has not interfered in our business,”  Greg Martin , a
GM spokesman, said by telephone. “As our actions with the Volt
have demonstrated, we’ve always put our customers’ safety and
peace of mind first, above all else.”  Obama took credit in his annual State of the Union speech
yesterday for saving the U.S. auto industry from the “verge of
collapse.” Republican presidential candidates, including  Mitt Romney , have criticized his rescue of GM during their campaigns
to be nominated for November’s election.  ‘Back on Top’  “Today, General Motors is back on top as the world’s
number-one automaker,” Obama said to applause. “Chrysler has
grown faster in the U.S. than any major car company. Ford is
investing billions in U.S. plants and factories. And together,
the entire industry added nearly 160,000 jobs.”  Akerson, in written testimony for today’s hearing, said
politics are behind the “disproportionate level of scrutiny”
of the Volt.  “The Volt’s entry into the market came soon after GM’s
emergence from its government rescue and restructuring -- and
during this political season,” Akerson said. “As such, the
Volt seems, perhaps unfairly, to have become a surrogate for
some to offer broader commentary on General Motors’ business
prospects and administration policy.”  The Volt sells for a starting price of $39,145 before an
$850 destination charge a federal tax credit of as much as
$7,500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Washington at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  