-- Goldman, Morgan Stanley Cut by JPMorgan on Capital Requirements
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-25T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/goldman-morgan-stanley-cut-by-jpmorgan-on-capital-requirements.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley were cut by an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on
concern that a U.S. regulatory proposal may make the banks’
 capital requirements  stricter than European rivals.  The regulation draft released last month is an example that
U.S. investment banks “operate with ongoing un-coordinated
regulatory headwinds, reducing the competitiveness against
European investment-bank peers,”  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a
note to investors today. He cut both New York-based firms, the
U.S. banks most reliant on trading, to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  The proposal addresses a mandate from the Dodd-Frank Act to
remove credit ratings from banking rules. Alternatives to credit
ratings could lead to increased capital requirements,
specifically from higher risk weightings for securitizations and
corporate debt exposures, Abouhossein wrote.  The regulation draft would likely cut his estimate for
Goldman Sachs’s Basel III Tier 1 common-equity ratio at the end
of this year to 8.5 percent from 9.7 percent, and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s to 9.1 percent from 9.9 percent, Abouhossein wrote.
That would limit the banks’ ability to repurchase shares, he
wrote.  The proposal was released in December by the  Federal
Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency. It’s part of a U.S. effort to
implement global capital rules revised in 2009 by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, which coordinates global
regulation.  The so-called market-risk rules, which cover assets on bank
trading books, were supposed to be in place by the end of 2011.
A European Union version went into effect Dec. 31. The Dodd-
Frank Act’s credit-ratings ban slowed the process in the U.S. as
regulators devised an alternative. Congress barred ratings after
firms including Moody’s Investor’s Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
gave their highest grades to mortgage-backed securities, which
allowed lenders to treat them as risk-free.  The proposed rules could be revised after a public comment
period that ends Feb. 3. A final version may be published a few
months later, according to regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  