-- Gold Proves Safest as Goldman Forecasts Record: Riskless Return
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-01-25T19:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gold-proving-safest-commodity-as-goldman-forecasts-record-riskless-return.html
Gold provided the best returns of
all commodities in the past five years when adjusted for
volatility, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says the rally will
continue as options traders signal no change in the metal’s
relatively low risk.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Gold Total Return Index produced a 6.5 percent risk-
adjusted return in the five years ended yesterday, the highest
among 24 commodities tracked by S&P, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Silver, the next-best performer, yielded a risk-adjusted
gain of 3.1 percent, while a total-return index for all raw
materials slipped 0.2 percent.  Bullion, which has seen 11 years of gains as investors
sought a haven amid two bear markets in stocks and a sovereign
debt crisis, also posted the safest return in the past 12
months, even as it fell from a record high to a five-month low
in the second half of last year and gold investors led by  John Paulson  suffered losses. Goldman Sachs forecasts gold will reach
a record this year, and a gauge of future price swings is near a
five-month low.  “Economic problems increased globally, and gold emerged as
a safe-haven investment,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama . “Monetary easing by China and quantitative
easing in  Europe  and the U.S. will help it remain a store of
value.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns are not annualized.  Longest Rally  A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses compared with a security whose price moves
at a steady rate.  Gold’s longest rally since at least 1920 in  London  has
attracted investors worldwide seeking protection from some of
the most violent market swings in stock markets on record. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  posted four consecutive days of
400-point swings last year, the longest streak since data began
in 1896. The S&P 500’s average daily price move since its 2011
high in April was 1.8 percentage points, compared with an
average of 1.1 percentage points in the five years before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  Goldman’s Forecast  The risks that spurred market volatility last year will
keep swaying asset prices and the global economy,  Nouriel
Roubini , the economist who predicted the 2008 financial crisis,
said in a talk at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York on Jan.
19. Rising commodity prices, uncertainty in the  Middle East , the
spreading European debt crisis, increased frequency of “extreme
weather events” and U.S. fiscal issues are “persistent”
problems, he said.  That’s good news for havens such as gold. Goldman Sachs
said in a Jan. 13 report that futures will advance to $1,940 an
ounce in 12 months. Morgan Stanley forecasts the metal will
climb to a record average $2,175 in 2013, analysts  Peter Richardson  and Joel Crane said in a Jan. 17 report.  Futures for February delivery jumped 2.1 percent to settle
at $1,700.10 today on the Comex in New York. That’s the highest
closing price since Dec. 9.  Traders anticipate that gold will gain at a steadier pace
again, after last year’s correction. The metal’s three-month
implied volatility, a gauge for future price swings, touched
19.04 yesterday, the lowest since early August. The most widely
held options contracts give holders the right buy at $2,000 by
June, data from the Comex exchange show. The ratio of puts per
call for the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion ETF, is near
the lowest since October 2008.  Beating Gasoline  “People are still very under-invested in gold, and so
there is a huge scope of that increasing,” said Jochen Hitzfeld, the analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich who was the
most accurate precious-metals forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in
the past two years.  Gold returned 1.1 percent in the 12 months through Jan. 24
when adjusted for price swings, compared with a 0.8 percent gain
in unleaded gasoline, the second-best performer. Stocks, as
measured by the  S&P 500 , returned 0.2 percent over 12 months
risk-adjusted and 0.1 percent over five years.  Gold hasn’t been shielded completely from market swings
after investors  accumulated  more than 2,355 metric tons in
exchange-traded funds backed by bullion, an amount valued at
more than $126 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Holdings have more than doubled in the past four years and
climbed to an all-time high of 2,393 tons on Dec. 13.  ‘Not Immune’  Futures, which rose to a record of $1,923.70 in September
on the Comex, slumped 11 percent the same month and retreated to
a five-month low of $1,523.90 on Dec. 29 as investors sold the
metal to cover losses in other markets. The risk-adjusted return
in the fourth quarter was minus 0.1 percent, while crude oil,
the best performer in the three months ended Dec. 31, returned
0.8 percent.  “Gold has become a mainstream alternative investment, so
rather than a store of value, it’s become a reflection of
flows,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based
Marketfield Asset Management, which manages $1.3 billion. “It
is not immune to volatility.”  Paulson, the hedge-fund manager who suffered the worst year
of his career in 2011, lost 20 percent last month in his gold
fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-related
securities, according to an investor update, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘Tempt Fate’  Most investors are sticking with the metal.  David Einhorn ’s
Greenlight Capital Inc. said in a Jan. 17 letter to investors
that the fund continues to hold gold and gold-mining equities
because of concern that global fiscal and monetary policies
“tempt fate.”  George Soros , 81, the billionaire founder of Soros Fund
Management LLC, increased his stake in SPDR Gold Trust, an
exchange-traded fund tracking the metal, to 48,350 shares as of
Sept. 30 from 42,800 and added options, according to Securities
and Exchange Commission filings. Soros, who called gold the
“ultimate asset bubble” in 2010, reinvested in gold shares
after selling 99 percent of his holding in the first quarter of
last year.  Since the start of this year, gold has been among the top
five commodities after adjusting for volatility, while zinc was
the best.  Central-Bank Buying  Central banks around the world added 157 tons to their
holdings in the six months through November, World Gold Council
data show.  China  overtook  India  in the third quarter as the largest
gold-jewelry market, according to the World Gold Council. The
country’s consumption will continue to grow this year, according
to  Albert Cheng , the Far East managing director at the council.
Mainland China imported a record 102.8 metric tons in November
from  Hong Kong , trade data on Jan. 11 showed.  “Everybody is conditioned to think of returns in a winner
fashion,” said Stanley Crouch, who helps oversee $2 billion as
chief investment officer at New York-based Aegis Capital Corp.
“During times of crisis, volatility really spooks people,
especially if it is in gold, as people look at it as a store of
value. However, I believe we have put in a bottom for gold so we
will see gold continue to climb.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  