-- Goldman, Puck Help Charity Wine Weekend Aiming for $100 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/goldman-puck-help-charity-wine-weekend-aiming-for-100-million.html
The  Naples Winter Wine Festival  sold
out this year, thanks to Wolfgang Puck, Tony Mantuano and about
15 other chefs and a lot of wine.  The three-day Florida event, which raises money for
disadvantaged children, will serve high-end food and wine to 600
ticketholders who paid $8,500 to $20,000 per couple. One of the
top charity wine auctions in the U.S., it raised $12.1 million
last year and has brought in $94.6 million since it began in
2000.  “Wolfgang Puck is a name that attracts a lot of
attention,” Robert Clifford, the event’s co-chairman and
founding partner of the Chicago-based Clifford Law Offices PC,
said by phone. “To have him throw in his time and talent for
this charity is something we’re so grateful for.”  Before the three-day event starts, there will be a wine
tasting and lunch tomorrow (also sold out) honoring Prince
Robert of Luxembourg, the president and chief executive officer
of Domaine Clarence Dillon, parent company of  Chateau Haut-Brion 
and its adjoining property, Chateau La Mission Haut-Brion.
Attendees who paid $2,500 will sample wines from five of its
most acclaimed vintages: 1961, 1982, 1989, 1990 and 2000.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will host a Friday event that will
introduce some of the attendees to the children aided by the
event’s parent organization, the  Naples Children & Education
Foundation , and nonprofits it supports. Also on Friday, Puck and
other chefs will prepare meals for groups of 40 in the homes of
the foundation’s trustees and supporters.  ‘Treasure Chest’  On Saturday, wine collectors will compete for rare and
prized vintages and luxury travel experiences at an auction that
in recent years has raised an average of $8 million in five
hours, Clifford said. The highlights include prized bottles from
the  Verite  Vineyard in California; a Haut-Brion “ Treasure
Chest ” which includes a mix of reds, whites and older vintages;
and a two-week  voyage  for four aboard a luxury ship with a
private chef.  Clifford said he hopes the event will raise the 12-year
total past the $100 million mark. (By comparison, the annual
 Auction Napa Valley  in  California  took 31 years to reach that
milestone.)  Mantuano of  Chicago ’s Spiaggia, a President Barack Obama
favorite and known for his masterful interpretations of classic
Italian dishes, is the festival’s chef de cuisine, an honor
bestowed on him for his service in five festivals. He will serve
caviar with burrata cheese and Wagyu steak with a porcini
mushroom salad.  “Chefs and restaurateurs like me do so many charity
events, and there’s nothing more rewarding than helping
children,” Mantuano said by phone.  Among the other chefs are New Yorkers Nick Anderer of
Maialino, Justin Bogle of Gilt and Bill Telepan of Telepan;
Nancy Silverton of Osteria Mozza and Joachim Splichal’s Patina,
both from  Los Angeles ; Charles Phan of the Slanted Door in  San
Francisco ; Stephan Pyles of his Dallas namesake; and Rick
Tramonto of Restaurant  R’evolution  in  New Orleans .  (The sold-out festival runs Friday through Sunday. There’s
a waiting list in case of last-minute cancellations.
Information: +1-239-514-2239 or
 http://www.napleswinefestival.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 