-- Google Rankles Regulators, Advocates Anew With Changes to Privacy Policies
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-25T20:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/google-rankles-regulators-advocates-anew.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s plan to make privacy
policies “simpler” unleashed a fresh wave of criticism from
regulators and consumer advocates that the company isn’t doing
enough to protect information it compiles about users.  The company said in a blog post yesterday that it will
create a uniform set of privacy guidelines for more than 60
products. Google also said it will reduce the number of so-
called terms of service, the conditions to which users agree
when accessing Google products, and make them easier to read.  Data-protection agencies in Ireland and  France  said they
would assess the implications of the push. At least one
consumer-advocacy group fretted that the policy -- which makes
it easier for Google to target advertisements to specific groups
-- might tie users’ hands and make it harder for them to limit
what the company can do with their information.  “This announcement is pretty frustrating and potentially
frightening from a kids and family and teenager standpoint and
an overall consumer privacy standpoint,” said  James Steyer ,
chief executive officer of San Francisco-based Common Sense
Media.  Regulators took umbrage when Google unveiled changes to its
search engine earlier this month, making user information from
its social-networking service available in search results.
Rivals such as Twitter Inc. said the shift would favor a Google
product -- namely, Google+ -- over other information on the Web.  Broader Probe  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission expanded its antitrust
probe of Google to include scrutiny of Google+, two people
familiar with the matter said this month.  Google’s push to unify its products and better target users
is part of a larger strategy to vie with such rivals as Facebook
Inc. for advertising dollars.  “Our new privacy policy makes clear that, if you’re signed
in, we may combine information you’ve provided from one service
with information from other services,” Alma Whitten, director
of privacy, product and engineering, said in the blog post
yesterday. “We’ll treat you as a single user across all our
products, which will mean a simpler, more intuitive Google
experience.”  The changes will take effect on March 1. The new policy
explains “what information we collect and how we use it,”
Whitten said.  -- Editors: Tom Giles, Nick Turner  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  