-- Google’s Superphone Delivers Ultimate Android: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-01-25T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/google-s-superphone-delivers-ultimate-android-rich-jaroslovsky.html
For the last couple of years, Google
has reserved the “Nexus” label for smartphones that provide
the purest experience of its Android operating system.
Meanwhile,  Samsung (005930)  has used the “Galaxy” brand on its top-of-
the-line mobile devices.  So what do you get when you marry the two and put the
result on the best 4G network? The Galaxy Nexus, a superphone
that is still somehow a little less than the sum of its
considerable parts.  The Galaxy Nexus, which costs $299 on a two-year contract
from  Verizon Wireless , is the first device to ship with Android
4.0, or in Google’s dessert-based nomenclature, “Ice Cream
Sandwich.” It is supposed to blend the separate cell-phone
(“Froyo,” “Gingerbread”) and tablet (“Honeycomb”) flavors
of Android’s operating systems.  The idea is to simplify things both for developers, who
otherwise have to worry that apps written for one version of
Android won’t run on another, and for consumers, giving them a
similar experience no matter what kind of device they’re using.
 Apple (AAPL) , not surprisingly, set the bar here with one operating
system -- iOS -- running iPads, iPhones and iPod Touches.  Lard-Free  The Nexus phone is mercifully free from the proprietary
user interfaces and apps that manufacturers and carriers often
lard atop Android. And Ice Cream Sandwich brings some welcome
enhancements.  Physical buttons are out. In their place are on-screen
back, home and recent-apps controls that rotate along with the
display when you turn the phone into portrait mode. You can also
create folders of apps by stacking them one atop the other, and
-- as on Honeycomb tablets -- summon thumbnail images of open
apps with the recent button. If you see one you don’t need, a
sideways finger flick dismisses it.  One major innovation isn’t so successful: Face Unlock,
which theoretically allows you to unlock your phone simply by
holding it up to your face and letting it recognize you. It’s a
neat trick when it works, but I repeatedly got error messages
telling me I couldn’t be recognized. Take it from me: Few things
in technology are as depressing as being rejected by your own
phone.  Insecure  Some users, meanwhile, have reported being able to fool the
feature by holding up a photo of themselves; even  Google (GOOG)  warns
during the set-up process that Face Unlock is less secure than
other ways of protecting your phone.  As for the Galaxy Nexus hardware, it’s handsome without
being particularly distinctive. The nicest feature is the big
4.65-inch screen that, typically for Samsung devices, is
absolutely gorgeous, with deep blacks and ultra-rich colors. My
main complaint was the automatic-brightness level, which is
supposed to adjust to ambient light but that I found
consistently too dim for my tastes. Eventually, I went into the
settings and disabled it.  Under the hood is a dual-core  Texas Instruments (TXN)  processor,
plus a gigabyte of memory and 32 gigs of storage. There are also
1.3-megapixel front and 5-megapixel rear-facing cameras, and it
shoots video in full 1080p high-definition. The whole package is
still only a third of an inch thick and weighs about 4.8 ounces.  Power Outage  In the U.S., the Galaxy Nexus runs on  Verizon (VZ) ’s LTE 4G
network. LTE is the fastest network technology, and Verizon has
the broadest coverage. But there’s a catch: LTE also gobbles
battery life. I’ve generally found that Samsung does the best
job among LTE handset-makers in managing power. But I’d be
tempted to take advantage of the fact that -- unlike iPhones --
the Galaxy Nexus’s battery is user-replaceable, and carry a
spare.  A version of the phone is also in the works for  Sprint (S) ,
which will start rolling out LTE this year. A model with 16
gigabytes of storage and using HSPA+ -- yet another network
technology -- is available in other nations where LTE isn’t
widespread. Carriers offering this version of the phone include
 Vodafone (VOD)  and  Telefonica (TEF) ’s O2.  Because of Google’s open-to-all-manufacturers approach,
it’s hard for any Android phone to match the seamlessness of an
iPhone,  Research In Motion (RIM) ’s BlackBerry or even devices running
 Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7. Perhaps that will change after
Google takes control of handset-maker  Motorola Mobility
Holdings (MMI) . Until then, the Galaxy Nexus comes closer than
anything yet to providing the definitive Android experience.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 