-- Gross Counters Gundlach Pushing U.S. Bank Bonds DoubleLine Shuns
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gross-counters-gundlach-pushing-u-s-bank-bonds-doubleline-shuns-as-risky.html
Pimco’s  Bill Gross  bet on debt of
big U.S. banks last year, his worst against peers. DoubleLine
Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  cut bank bonds in May, dodging
their second-half slide and beating 99 percent of rivals.  The competing bond managers haven’t changed their minds.
Gross, whose $244 billion Pimco Total Return is the world’s
largest mutual fund, recommended financial debt in this month’s
investment outlook for Newport Beach, California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co., saying senior, higher-rated
securities “should be considered” as clients await the result
of central-bank efforts to reinvigorate the global economy.  “You want to be underweight banks,” Gundlach told clients
of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital in a Jan. 5 conference
call. “Certainly, we are.”  More than three years after the U.S. rescued major banks,
money managers are debating how the industry will cope in a
world of stricter regulation, Europe’s debt crisis, lower Wall
Street trading volumes and sliding  home prices . Gross’s main
fund trailed 69 percent of peers in 2011, the worst performance
in Bloomberg records going back to 1995, and suffered its first
net redemptions, while Gundlach’s Core Fixed Income Fund and
Total Return funds won new cash as they whipped rivals.  Gross is taking a risk betting on bank bonds.  The bonds of banks, insurers, real estate firms and
financial-services companies had the lowest risk-adjusted
returns in the five years ended Dec. 31 among 16 industry groups
tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. In 2011, banks
were among the five worst groups ranked by the same measure.  Risk-Adjusted Return  Banks had a risk-adjusted return of 6 percent over the
five-year period, compared with 9.5 percent for automotive
bonds, the top-performing group. The risk-adjusted return is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. The number isn’t annualized.  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had 12 percent of assets in
investment-grade financial bonds as of Dec. 31, almost three
times their share in the $1.8 billion  DoubleLine Core Fixed
Income (DBLFX) , Gundlach’s competing fund. Gross had more than 1.3
percent of Pimco Total Return in the bonds of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as
of Sept. 30. The  New York  bank represented about 0.2 percent of
Gundlach’s fund, according to regulatory filings and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dan Fuss  of Loomis Sayles & Co., whose best-known mutual
fund beat 92 percent of peers over the past decade, is on
Gross’s side. His $20 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund increased
its holdings of bank bonds from June to November as investors
overreacted to bad news for the industry, said Elaine Stokes,
another portfolio manager on the fund.  No ‘Disastrous Scenario’  “The  U.S. economy  is going to continue to get better,
 interest rates  will stay low and  Europe  will muddle through,”
Stokes said in a telephone interview from Boston. “That is not
a disastrous scenario for the banks.”  Pimco expected U.S. banks to do well last year. They
improved their balance sheets and their debt was poised to rally
as the economy picked up,  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate
bond portfolios, said in a December 2010 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.”  Citigroup and  Bank of America Corp . could be “two of the
stars” in the fixed-income market, Kiesel said at the time.  Bank of America’s 5.625 percent notes due in July 2020 lost
5.3 percent in 2011, Bloomberg data show. Citigroup’s 5.375
notes due in August 2020 rose 4.2 percent. Both bonds are among
the banks’ most traded, according to Trace, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority’s price reporting system.  Bet ‘Hurt’  Bank bonds returned 1.7 percent in 2011 and dropped 1.5
percent in the last six months of the year as investors were
spooked by Europe’s troubles and signs the global economy was
slowing. U.S. corporate bonds gained 7.5 percent and 4.1 percent
over the same periods, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Treasuries returned 9.8 percent and 7.3 percent.  “It’s fair to say the bet on financials hurt Gross’s
fund,”  Eric Jacobson , director of fixed-income research at
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Pimco Total Return gained 4.2 percent in 2011 while
DoubleLine Core Fixed Income returned 11 percent and the $16.8
billion DoubleLine Total Return, Gundlach’s largest fund,
climbed 9.5 percent, both better than 99 percent of peers.  Gross referred questions to Christian Stracke, head of
credit research at Pimco.  U.S. banks are “in much better shape than they have been
in years,” Stracke said in a telephone interview.  Raising Capital  The biggest banks have raised capital over the past two
years, and cut risk by keeping more cash on hand and relying on
stable sources of funding such as customer deposits, Stracke
said. Pimco favors senior bank bonds that offer more protection
in the event the economy weakens, because their principal is
paid back before subordinated debt in a bankruptcy, he said.  Pimco doesn’t break out statistics on bank holdings as a
share of its portfolios. In the Barclays Capital U.S. Credit
Index, a common benchmark for bond managers, banks account for
about two-thirds of financial bonds.  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX) ’s assets in bank bonds grew to 7.8
percent as of Nov. 30 from 6.6 percent in June, according to the
firm. Loomis Sayles likes “too-big-to-fail” banks best because
the U.S. government won’t allow a repeat of the 2008 failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  In the fourth quarter, the firm bought Bank of America’s
7.625 percent notes due in 2019. The yield on the bonds, rated
A- by  Standard & Poor’s , reached 8.2 percent in November.  Attractive Yield  “Where else can you get a yield like that in a solid
investment-grade credit?” Stokes said.  A rally in bank debt has since cut the yield to 5.8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In December
and January through the 23rd, global bank bonds enjoyed their
best back-to-back performance since August and September 2009,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  While  U.S. bank  bonds remain an attractive long-term
holding, they aren’t enticing enough at current prices for
Loomis Sayles to buy more, Stokes said.  Pimco’s Stracke agreed, saying the firm will wait for
“better entry points” to add to its bank securities.  DoubleLine referred questions to Bonnie Baha, head of
global developed credit. The firm started 2011 with fewer
financial bonds than most of its peers and began paring them
back in May when Europe’s debt crisis escalated, Baha said in a
telephone interview.  DoubleLine Core Fixed Income Fund had about 4.5 percent of
its assets in investment-grade financial bonds and less than 3
percent in bank debt at year-end, Baha said. Financial bonds
represent 6.5 percent of the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate
Bond Index, and bank debt 4.3 percent.  ‘Not Enough’  U.S. banks have made progress by increasing deposits,
adding capital and shrinking their holdings of nonperforming
assets, Baha said.  “It’s not enough to have stronger balance sheets,” she
said in a telephone interview. “Going forward how are they
going to make any money? What’s the business model?”  U.S. banks are in the midst of the industry’s worst two
years of revenue growth since the Great Depression, according to
Mike Mayo, an analyst with research firm CLSA in New York.  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the largest U.S. bank by assets, said
Jan. 13 its fourth-quarter profit fell 23 percent as trading
revenue and investment-banking fees declined. Citigroup, the
third-biggest bank, said Jan. 17 that fourth-quarter profit
dropped 11 percent, missing analysts’ estimates for a gain, as
securities trading revenue declined.  BofA Profit  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender, swung to a
fourth-quarter profit as the company sold assets and built
capital faster than expected, the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based company said Jan. 19.  The bank abandoned plans to charge $5 a month for  debit
cards  in November after a backlash from consumers and lawmakers.  “Is that how desperate they have gotten to find new
revenue?” Baha said.  Gundlach’s DoubleLine Core Fixed Income Fund benefited in
2011 from its stakes in Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities and by holding less in high-yield debt and bank bonds
than peers, Baha said. Investors deposited $1.4 billion into the
fund last year, Morningstar data show.  Gundlach’s larger fund, which buys mortgage-backed
securities, owns no corporate debt, according to the firm.
Gundlach, 52, founded DoubleLine, which manages $23 billion, in
December 2009.  Gross, 67, shunned Treasuries in the first half of the
year, missing a rally as investors rushed to the safety of
government-backed debt. The 9.8 percent return for Treasuries in
2011 was their best showing since 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Sentiment Brightens  Gross later reversed course on Treasuries, which accounted
for 21 percent of his fund as of Dec. 31, according to  Pimco’s
website . The fund lost $5 billion to redemptions in 2011,
according to Morningstar, the first net withdrawals in records
going back to 1993.  “This year is a stinker,” Gross wrote in an October
letter to clients titled “ Mea Culpa .” Total Return “had too
little risk off and too much risk on,” Gross wrote.  Investor sentiment toward U.S. banks has brightened in
2012. Bank bonds gained 1.9 percent this year through Jan. 23.
The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks rose 10 percent through
yesterday.  DoubleLine isn’t joining the bandwagon.  “We are not sure you are being compensated enough for
risks that no one can clearly understand,” Baha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  