-- Guangdong Carbon Program to Be China’s Largest, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-25T14:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/guangdong-carbon-program-to-be-china-s-largest-new-energy-says.html
A program to curb the increase of
greenhouse gas emissions in China’s Guangdong province will
probably be the largest of the nation’s seven test climate-
protection systems, according to Bloomberg  New Energy  Finance.  Guangdong is seeking to cut the amount of carbon emitted
per unit of production in its economy by 19.5 percent in the
five years through 2015, New Energy Finance said yesterday in an
e-mailed research note. Other regions have lower targets, with
Chongqing and Hubei set reductions of 17 percent.  “At this stage, Guangdong is the one to watch, as it has
an ambitious target and the highest emissions out of the seven
pilot regions,” said Richard Chatterton, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . “The planned pilots are
currently light on detail, but the programs are likely to fit
alongside non-market policies, potentially preventing fully
fledged cap-and-trade,” he said today by phone.  China , the world’s most populous nation and biggest
emitter, is testing emissions-trading programs after global
greenhouse gas output from fuel burning advanced 5.3 percent to
a record 30.4 million metric tons in 2010, according to data
published November by the  International Energy Agency  in Paris.  Guangdong has emissions of about 465 million tons of carbon
dioxide, New Energy estimated, based on 2009 data. That’s
compared with 397 million tons for  France , U.S. Department of
Energy data show.  The Beijing region has yearly emissions of 117 million
tons, while the Shenzhen area emits 90 million tons, New Energy
estimated. Annual gross domestic product growth varies widely
across the seven, from 8 percent for  Shanghai  to 16 percent for
Tianjin, it found.  Implementation Plans  The likely success of the programs in curbing greenhouse-
gas output in the five years is so far difficult to judge,
Chatterton said. “We’ll know more when the regions submit their
implementation plans in 2012,” he said.  Asia Development Bank will help fund one of the pilot
carbon-trading markets that may evolve into a nationwide cap-
and-trade program.  ADB is providing a $750,000 equivalent grant to Tianjin
municipal area’s pilot system, which may begin operation as
early as next year, Manila-based ADB  said today in a statement 
on its website.  The 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which set an emissions cap for
more than 30 developed nations in the five years through 2012,
was never ratified by the U.S. and does not require China and
 India , the world’s two most populous nations, to cut emissions.
United Nations envoys have failed to decide how to extend or
replace that agreement for the past 14 years.  Officials from almost 200 nations agreed on Dec. 11 at UN
climate talks in Durban,  South Africa , to seek a global deal by
2015, with the participation for the first time of the U.S.,
China and India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  