-- Gulf Air Considers Options to Tackle Unprofitable Operations
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 2012-01-25T08:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/gulf-air-considers-options-to-tackle-unprofitable-operations.html
Gulf Air, once the  Middle East ’s
biggest carrier, said it’s studying options to address its lack
of profitability as a newspaper reported that possibilities
include selling the company or reducing its size.  Gulf Air and the government, which owns the airline through
sovereign-wealth fund Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co., are
“working towards a common goal -- to secure Gulf Air’s long-
term sustainability,” the carrier said in an e-mailed statement
today. A spokeswoman declined to be more specific about the
options being considered.  The airline may be sold off, dissolved or downsized, or it
may receive government support to continue,  Gulf Daily News 
reported today, citing confidential documents.  Documents suggest that selling off the airline and building
a new carrier is the most likely choice and would cost the
government 460 million Bahraini dinars ($1.2 billion), while
shrinking Gulf Air would cost as much as 600 million dinars,
according to the newspaper. A committee formed this week is
studying the options, it said.  One of the Middle East’s oldest carriers, with roots dating
to 1950, Gulf Air has been implementing a three-year cost-
cutting plan as it seeks to break even by 2013. Bahrain, which
took sole charge in 2007 after the exit of co-owners  Abu Dhabi ,
Oman and Qatar, injected 400 million dinars in the airline in
2010 to aid the revamp.  “Gulf Air has faced challenges in recent times, in common
with other carriers around the world and combinations of
unprecedented regional and economic factors have made business
increasingly difficult,” the airline said in the statement.  -- With assistance from Donna Abu Nasr in Manama. Editors:
Robert Valpuesta, David Risser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  