-- IBM Brings Higher-Tech Crime Fighting to Las Vegas, Minnesota
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ibm-brings-higher-tech-crime-fighting-to-las-vegas-minnesota.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is tackling crime in  Las Vegas  and Rochester,  Minnesota ,
where police departments have turned to high-tech analytics to
forecast crime “hot spots” and pursue leads quickly.  Software analytics is being used to help Rochester police
detect and predict crime patterns by creating a better database
with more reliable information. In  Nevada ’s biggest city, a
program called Coplink will organize data across four agency
databases, helping police make “non-obvious connections”
between people, places and things like mobile phones and cars,
Armonk, New York-based IBM said today in announcing the two
deals.  The world’s biggest computer-services provider already has
worked with police in cities such as New York,  Los Angeles  and
Memphis, Tennessee, to tackle crime more effectively by mining
data -- everything from arrest records and surveillance video to
unwise boasts on Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  “We’re using intelligent tools to help find things that
are hidden in the large amount of data that police already
have,” said Mark Cleverley, director of IBM’s public safety
initiatives. “We’re generating more and more quantities of
data, so you need these kinds of tools to be able to make sense
of that information.”  Some of IBM’s policing technologies evolved from business
applications, including tools that predict what shoppers may be
tempted to buy based on their initial purchase, and identity
databases that casinos use to ensure they’re comping -- and
keeping an eye on -- the right and wrong gamblers, Cleverley
said.  IBM has spent about $14 billion on 25 analytics
acquisitions in the past five years. Former Chief Executive
Officer  Sam Palmisano  made a priority of helping to build
“smarter” cities and businesses through software and programs
that analyze and project trends. New CEO Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, who succeeded Palmisano this month, inherits a five-
year plan that includes adding $20 billion in new revenue by
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  