-- Ica Jumps Most Since October on Debt Outlook: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-01-25T22:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/ica-jumps-most-since-october-on-debt-outlook-mexico-city-mover.html
Empresas Ica SAB,  Mexico ’s biggest
construction company, climbed the most in three months amid
optimism the completion of government projects this year will
help reduce debt.  Shares (ICA*)  surged 9.3 percent to 20.76 pesos in Mexico City
trading today, the steepest advance since Oct. 28. The benchmark
IPC index of 35 stocks rose 1 percent.  Ica is a bargain after it dropped 46 percent last year as
debt mounted and investors shunned companies with highly
leveraged balance sheets amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis would
squelch global growth, said Gonzalo Fernandez, an analyst at
Banco Santander SA. Payments due this year on construction
projects may help reduce indebtedness, Fernandez said.  “The company had a strong reaction last year,” Fernandez
said by phone from Mexico City. This year “we could have the
opposite effect as the company starts to cut its debt.”  Santander named Ica one of its “top picks for 2012” and
reiterated a “buy” recommendation on the stock in a report
dated yesterday.  Ica’s net debt rose 30 percent to 34.1 billion pesos in the
third-quarter, from the end of 2010, according to its Oct. 27
report.  The company will use a payment of about $1 billion due this
year for construction of the La Yesca dam project on Mexico’s
Santiago River and $220 million in net proceeds from the sale of
a toll highway in  Panama  to reduce debt, Chief Operating Officer
Alonso Quintana said in an Aug. 25 interview.  There’s no additional information to disclose that may be
causing today’s surge, the company said in a filing to the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net  