-- Illinois Sues Standard & Poor’s Over Ratings on Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-01-25T20:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/illinois-attorney-general-lisa-madigan-sues-standard-poor-s-over-ratings.html
Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued Standard & Poor’s, accusing the company of a
“fraudulent role’” in assigning improperly high ratings to
mortgage-backed securities.  The complaint, which also names parent  McGraw Hill Cos. (MHP) ,
was filed today in Cook County Circuit Court, alleging the
ratings service put profit first, while purporting to provide
independent, objective analyses, Madigan said in a statement.  “S&P ignored the increasing risks posed by mortgage-backed
securities, instead giving the investment pools ratings that
were favorable to its investment bank client base,” Madigan
said.  In one 2007 online exchange among S&P workers, Madigan
contends, an employee said an investment “could be structured
by cows and we would rate it,” according to the statement.  “The case is without merit and we will defend ourselves
vigorously, David Wargin, a spokesman for  Standard & Poor’s ,
said in a phone interview.  Madigan seeks an order that Standard & Poor’s has committed
consumer fraud; asks for a penalty of $50,000 per violation; and
requests that the company pay back ill-gotten gains.  ‘‘S&P emphasized the company’s integrity through
independence,” according to the lawsuit, yet it “sacrificed
its principles” to gain market share and profits.  The lawsuit is part of Madigan’s efforts “to provide
relief and assistance to Illinois families struggling to save
their homes,” she said in the statement.  “Investors relied on S&P ratings,” and the company
“consistently misrepresented the risk of mortgage-backed
securities,” according to Madigan.  The case is Illinois v. The McGraw-Hill Cos. and Standard &
Poor’s, 12CH02535, Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
County Department,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  