-- IMF Warns Hungary of Potential Debt-Repayment Risk If Euro Crisis Worsens
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-25T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/imf-warns-hungary-of-potential-debt-repayment-risk-if-euro-crisis-worsens.html
Hungary may be pressed to meet its
debt payments this year if the euro crisis worsens and the
economy slips into a recession, the  International Monetary Fund 
said, underscoring the need for a financial safety net.  Economic growth  may miss the government’s 2012 estimate of
0.5 percent and the budget gap may be 3.5 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a target of 2.5 percent, the
Washington-based lender said in a report today. The IMF
estimates 0.3 percent growth or a recession in a crisis
scenario.  Hungary is trying to revive bailout talks with the IMF and
the European Union to quell investor concern about the country’s
ability to service the highest debt level among the trading
bloc’s eastern members. Talks broke down last month over
disagreements over a new central bank law. Premier  Viktor Orban 
sought aid in November as the forint plunged to a record and
Hungary’s credit grade was cut to junk at  Standard & Poor’s ,
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service.  Hungary’s growth outlook is “subject to significant
downside risks, including possibly the emergence of an external
funding gap,” the IMF said in its annual country review. “A
Fund-supported program in concert with other international
lenders, which would require a strengthened policy framework and
strong ownership by the authorities, could relieve some of the
constraints facing the Hungarian economy.”  Forint Rally  The forint appreciated to a three-month high of 296.76 per
euro today before dropping to 299.35 at 1:35 p.m. in Budapest.
The forint rallied after falling to a record low of 324.24 on
Jan. 4 as the government said it is willing to compromise on the
central bank law and other legislation the EU contests to start
bailout talks.  Hungary may start negotiations with the EU and the IMF
“any time,” Orban told HirTV yesterday after meeting European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  in Brussels. While the gap
between positions on disputed issues has narrowed, the
government won’t compromise on some issues, including central
bank salary cuts, Orban said.  The commission on Jan. 17 threatened to file a lawsuit
against Hungary because of the central bank law, moves to force
hundreds of judges into retirement by cutting their pension age
and the dismissal of the data protection ombudsman.  The central bank maintaining a “tightening bias” is
“appropriate,” while the Magyar Nemzeti Bank doesn’t have room
to cut rates, the IMF said.  Unexpected Rate Decision  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank unexpectedly held the benchmark
two-week deposit rate at 7 percent yesterday after a “close
vote,” during which policy makers also considered a third
consecutive half-point increase, central bank Governor Andras Simor said after the decision. Policy makers raised rates by one
percentage point in the previous two months to bolster the
currency.  Hungary  may need to raise the main rate further if the
country’s risk assessment and inflation outlook “deteriorate
significantly,” Simor said, adding that only a “substantial
and sustained improvement” in risk premiums would warrant a
rate cut.  “The MNB’s tightening bias is justified,” the IMF said.
“While the output gap remains relatively large, the scope for
rate cuts is constrained by the worsened inflation outlook and
the need to avoid a destabilizing weakening of the exchange rate
and capital outflows. Official reserve levels are too modest to
provide additional room for maneuver.”  ‘Contingency’ Measures  The government should identify “contingency” budget
measures even with an “ambitious” fiscal consolidation that
includes welfare spending cuts and value-added tax increases,
the IMF said. The fund said its 3.5 percent budget-gap estimate
reflects a “more conservative” forecast for growth,  interest
rates  and the exchange rate.  The government may need to “revisit” elements of a flat
personal income tax that forced an 18 percent increase in the
minimum wage to shield lower income workers, the IMF said.  Hungary, which is the subject of an excessive-deficit
procedure from the European Commission, faces a “real risk”
that its so-called cohesion funding, which finances investment
and development projects, may be suspended from next year if the
government fails to proves it can keep the shortfall below 3
percent, the IMF said.  The government should also strengthen the Fiscal Council
after abolishing its independent predecessor and replacing it
with a three-person council dominated by Orban allies, it said.  ‘Lasting Damage’  Hungary’s government needs to also work to restore investor
confidence, after possibly inflicting a “large and lasting
damage” on the country’s reputation with the unilateral
revision of bank contracts to allow for the early repayment of
foreign currency mortgages at exchange rates below the market
rate, the IMF said.  The move forced banks to swallow exchange-rate losses as
the government worked to reduce foreign-currency loans. About 20
percent of foreign-currency borrowers were able to repay their
loans early in a lump sum, according to the financial regulator.  The foreign-owned banks that dominate the country’s
financial industry may as a result become less willing to fund
their Hungarian units to the same extent as after the 2008
credit crisis, raising debt servicing risks, the IMF said.  “Unlike in the previous crisis, parent banks may be less
likely to significantly increase their funding to subsidiaries
given the policy environment in Hungary and pressures in the
Eurozone,” the IMF said. “Given low fiscal and external
buffers, such a scenario could well weaken Hungary’s capacity to
meet its external obligations in 2012-13.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  