-- India, Pakistan Plan to Settle Transit Fee for Turkmenistan Gas
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-25T11:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/india-pakistan-plan-to-settle-transit-fee-for-turkmenistan-gas.html
India  intends to agree “at the
earliest” on a fee payable to  Pakistan  for transporting natural
gas from Turkmenistan through a pipeline that will also pass
through  Afghanistan .  The fee accord is needed before the nations sign an
agreement to buy gas from Turkmenistan, India’s Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told reporters at a joint press conference with
Pakistan’s Petroleum Minister Asim Hussain in New Delhi. The
meeting today was the third on the transit fee and the first
between the ministers, India’s oil ministry said in a statement.  The U.S., which is seeking to end its military presence in
Afghanistan, supports a pipeline through the country and is
urging the South Asian nations to abandon a similar link from
 Iran . The pipeline may help India and Pakistan normalize
economic ties after six decades of distrust and hostility since
winning independence from British colonial rule in 1947.  The two countries may each buy 38 million cubic meters a
day of gas transported by the almost 1,700-kilometer (1,057
miles) pipeline and Afghanistan will take 14 million, Reddy said
in April last year.  Pakistan is close to signing an accord with Turkmenistan
for the gas, minister Hussain said. The planned pipeline may be
completed by 2016, India’s oil ministry said in a statement
April 28 last year.  India also offered to sell gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and
 fuel oil  to Pakistan and may build pipelines to transport the
products, according to today’s statement.  “India is exporting oil products to various countries and
Pakistan is importing,” Reddy said. Pakistan “has shown
interest in this and our groups will meet over the next few
weeks to take this forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  