-- Indiana House Passes Right-to-Work Measure Against Mandatory Union Dues
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   S a m m   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/indiana-house-passes-right-to-work-measure-against-mandatory-union-dues.html
Indiana (STOIN1) ’s House of Representatives
approved a bill that would exempt nonunion employees from paying
dues when working alongside union workers, a critical step
toward final passage.  Democrats boycotted some of the Republican-controlled
chamber’s sessions for about three weeks, preventing a quorum.
The House passage by a vote of 54-44 sends the bill to the
Senate, which already cleared a version.  Indiana  would be the
first state to endorse such a law since  Oklahoma (STOOK1)  approved a
similar measure in 2001.  Republican lawmakers view the measure as a cost-cutting,
job-creating tool, while Democrats call it union-busting that
will lower wages.  “What you’re doing to the great state of Indiana, it’s a
shame, it’s a shame, it’s a shame,” Democratic Representative
John Bartlett said during floor debate as union workers shouted
and jeered outside the chamber doors.  Republicans were able to move the bill along after
Democrats returned from a two-day boycott.  “This has nothing to do with busting unions,” said
Republican Representative Jerry Torr, the bill’s sponsor. “I’m
convinced it will bring jobs and employers to Indiana.”  Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels , 62, who backed off a
similar measure in 2011, supports it now, calling it a “bold
stroke.”  NFL Hit  The issue led to a five-week boycott last year, with  House
Democrats  leaving the state to prevent the chamber from
conducting business. This year’s fight comes as Indianapolis
prepares to host the National Football Association’s Super Bowl
championship on Feb. 5. The NFL Players Association condemned
the right-to-work bill in a Jan. 6 statement, calling it “a
political ploy designed to destroy basic workers’ rights.”  Twenty-two states, mostly in the Deep South and the Rocky
Mountain West, have enacted right-to-work laws. Republican
statehouse gains in the 2010 elections prompted legislation in
states including Wisconsin and  Ohio  that was aimed at
restricting bargaining rights for government workers’ unions.  Indiana’s bill targets labor contracts with businesses.
Union members composed 10.9 percent of the state’s workforce in
2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . That’s
down from 15.4 percent in 2000.  ‘Little by Little’  “We don’t want minimum-wage jobs in Indiana,”
Representative Shelli VanDenburgh, a Democrat, said during
debate. “What happens is, little by little, the union goes
away. People don’t see the big picture.”  Republicans called Democratic attacks overblown.  “The sky will not fall the day after right to work
passes,” said Representative Sue Ellspermann, a Republican.
“Not a single right-to-work state has chosen to return to their
non-right-to-work status.”  Anti-union measures have torn the Midwest since last year,
when Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , 44, pushed collective-
bargaining curbs on public employees, causing weeks of protests
and dividing the state of 5.7 million people.  At least 1 million people have signed petitions to force a
recall election for Walker, nearly as many as the 1.1 million
who voted for him in 2010.  In Ohio, voters repealed a law in November limiting
collective bargaining for public employees that first-term
Governor  John Kasich  and fellow Republican lawmakers enacted
last year. The measure, which affected about 360,000 teachers,
police officers, firefighters and other government workers, was
overturned 62 percent to 38 percent in a Nov. 8 ballot
referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in London at 
 tjones42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  