-- Indianapolis Colts Hire Ravens Defensive Coordinator Chuck Pagano as Coach
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/indianapolis-colts-hire-ravens-defensive-coordinator-chuck-pagano-as-coach.html
The  Indianapolis Colts  have charged
Chuck Pagano with turning around the franchise after its worst
season in 20 years.  Baltimore Ravens defensive coordinator Pagano, 51, was
hired as head coach yesterday, a week after the Colts fired Jim Caldwell following a 2-14 National Football League campaign.  “It’s difficult to leave the Ravens, but I couldn’t pass
up on this great opportunity,” Pagano said on Baltimore’s
website. “I’m just thrilled and so excited.”  Pagano is the fourth Ravens defensive coordinator to take a
head coaching job. Marvin Lewis went to the  Cincinnati Bengals ,
Mike Nolan joined the  San Francisco 49ers  and Rex Ryan took the
job with the  New York Jets .  “We’re so happy for Chuck,” Ravens coach  John Harbaugh 
said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re proud of him. Like me,
Chuck grew up in the game and loves it. We’ll miss him and thank
him for all he did for the Ravens.”  Baltimore’s defense allowed the third-fewest points and
yards in the NFL this season, Pagano’s first as defensive
coordinator after coaching Baltimore’s secondary from 2008 to
2010. He’s also been an NFL assistant with the Oakland Raiders
and Cleveland Browns.  The appointment comes two weeks after Colts owner Jim Irsay
hired Ryan Grigson, the former Philadelphia Eagles director of
player personnel, as general manager. Grigson joined nine days
after Vice Chairman Bill Polian and General Manager Chris Polian
were fired.  The changes are similar to those Irsay made with the Colts
in 1998.  Bill Polian  was hired along with coach Jim Mora, and
the team took quarterback Peyton Manning with the first pick in
that year’s NFL draft.  Indianapolis has the first pick this year and ESPN has said
the Colts will take Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck 
as Manning continues to recover from neck surgery that forced
him to miss the 2011 season.  Pagano will be introduced at a news conference today, the
Colts said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  