-- Indian Solar-Thermal May Follow U.S. in Losing Ground, Enam Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T07:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/indian-solar-thermal-may-follow-u-s-in-losing-ground-enam-says.html
Solar-thermal technology, backed by
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , may concede ground in  India 
like in the U.S. as companies opt for cheaper photovoltaic
panels, according to a developer owned by the Enam Group.  Solar thermal, which uses sunlight to produce steam for
conventional turbines, has lost the cost and scale advantages it
used to have, said Vishal Kedia, director of Visual Percept
Solar Projects Pvt., which completed one of India’s largest
photovoltaic plants this month.  “In the short-run, it has lost out,” Kedia said in an
interview in  Mumbai  this week. “India will mirror sentiment
across the world.”  Solar manufacturers offering competing technologies are
fighting for market share as European governments cut back on
subsidies and prices tumble on excess capacity from  China . In
the U.S., developers have ditched solar-thermal for photovoltaic
panels whose prices  fell 51 percent  last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Photovoltaic panels directly convert
sunlight into electricity.  Only two of 22 companies bid for solar-thermal projects in
a December auction held in India’s Karnataka state. The
remainder vied for photovoltaic capacity.  Retrofit Plants  Mumbai-based Visual Percept bid to build a solar-thermal
plant in India’s first auction in December 2010. It was out-
priced by seven competitors, including  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and
 Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , which have ordered turbines from Siemens,
GE and Areva for 470 megawatts of solar-thermal plants due to be
completed by early 2013.  The technology has a better chance of being adopted in
India to retrofit conventional  power plants  to reduce fuel
consumption by running on solar when possible, Kedia said. India
is potentially one of the largest markets for such hybrid solar
power plants, according to Areva.  Visual Percept plans to bid for more photovoltaic plants in
Rajasthan state, Kedia said. It finished its first, 25-megawatt
photovoltaic project in Gujarat state using crystalline panels
this month.  Enam Group, led by investment banker Vallabh Bhansali, set
up Visual Percept to develop solar plants, drawn by a business
that offers stable, long-term cash flows, Kedia said. It’s also
considering developing wind farms, he said.  Enam’s investment arm doesn’t disclose the size or details
of its holdings which are spread across companies in most
industries, Kedia said. The group was an initial investor in an
early backer of  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) , India’s second-largest software
exporter. Enam’s investment banking business was bought by Axis
Bank Ltd. in November 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 