-- Indonesia Stocks: Global Mediacom, Kertas Basuki, Vale Indonesia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-01-25T09:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/indonesia-stocks-global-mediacom-radiant-utama-interinsco.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Indonesian trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the close in Jakarta.  The  Jakarta Composite index  fell 0.8 percent to 3,963.61,
the sharpest drop since Jan. 6.  Commodity producers:  PT Vale Indonesia (INCO)  , the
nation’s biggest nickel producer previously known as PT
International Nickel Indonesia, declined 2.7 percent to 3,600
rupiah.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  , Asia’s largest exporter of
power-station coal, dropped 3 percent to 2,450 rupiah.  The shares fell after the International Monetary Fund
yesterday forecast a 14 percent drop this year in non-oil
commodity prices, said Edwin Sebayang, an analyst at PT MNC
Securities.  PT Global Mediacom (BMTR)  , Indonesia’s biggest media
company, rose 4.9 percent to 1,080 rupiah, the steepest gain
since Jan. 3. Global Mediacom plans to sell 1 trillion rupiah
($111 million) of bonds in the second quarter to buy back
shares,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported, citing an unidentified
executive. Corporate Secretary Budi Rustanto couldn’t be reached
when called at his office.  PT Kertas Basuki Rachmat Indonesia (KBRI)  , a paper
producer, jumped 17 percent to 62 rupiah, the steepest increase
since July 1, 2010. The shares rose amid speculation Kertas
plans to diversify its business to run fuel stations, MNC’s
Sebayang said. Kertas has no plans to enter the fuel station
business, Corporate Secretary Tiur Simamora said by telephone.  PT Radiant Utama Interinsco (RUIS)  , a service provider
to the energy, oil and gas industries, increased 4.2 percent to
250 rupiah, its highest close since Jan. 3. The company plans to
sell about 300 billion rupiah to 400 billion rupiah of bonds in
the second quarter for debt refinancing, working capital and
capital expenditures, Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing Arsyad
Lubis, a director at the company. Lubis couldn’t be reached when
called at his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at   rfrost4@bloomberg.net  