-- Iran Embargo May Speed Refinery Closures
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/iran-embargo-may-speed-europe-refinery-closures-after-petroplus-failure.html
The European Union’s embargo on
Iranian oil threatens to accelerate refinery closures in  Europe ,
the head of  Italy’s refiners’ lobby  said.  “Asian countries not applying the embargo could buy the
Iranian oil at a discount and sell cheap refined products back
to us,” Piero De Simone, general manager of Unione Petrolifera,
said in an interview in Rome yesterday. “Italy already risks
the closure of five refineries and at a European level we’re
talking about 70 possible shut downs.”  The European Union this week agreed to ban oil imports from
Iran starting in July as part of measures to target financing
for the country’s nuclear program. The policy comes as refiners
fight overcapacity and falling fuel demand. Petroplus Holdings
AG, which has five plants across Europe, yesterday declared
insolvency after banks called in loans.  While refiners will replace Iranian imports with Saudi
Arabian and Russian oil from the Urals, De Simone says he is
concerned Asian refiners will use cheap Iranian crude to
undercut competitors.  “The Iranians will have to unload their production
somewhere and I’m sure they’ll find buyers,” he said. “The
last thing we need is more unfair competition. Either we do
something at a European level or we risk a precipitous end
similar to Petroplus’s for many European refineries.”  Refining margins from processing Brent into gasoline,
diesel and other fuels in northwest Europe fell to loss of 26
cents a barrel in December from a profit of 51 cents a month
earlier, according to a Jan. 18 report by the  International
Energy Agency .  ‘Under Pressure’  “With crude  oil prices  high and likely to remain high,
margins are set to remain under pressure,” Barclays Plc
analyst Amrita Sen said in a note yesterday. “We would expect
further closure of simple, non-profitable refineries in  both
the U.S. and Europe.”  While the EU imported 450,000 barrels a day from Iran in
the first half of 2011,  China  bought 543,000 barrels in the same
period and  India ,  South Korea  and  Japan  purchased a total
913,000 barrels, according to data from the  U.S. Energy
department.   Italy, Spain and  Greece  combined accounted for about 68
percent of EU imports from Iran in 2010, European Commission
data show, with  Italy  getting about 13 percent of its oil from
Iran, according to Unione Petrolifera statistics.  Capacity Gap  De Simone said smaller and older plants which specialize in
the heavy kind of oil Iran provides will be the hardest hit.
Italy currently has production capacity of about 103 million
tons of fuel a year, while internal demand is around 74 million
tons, he said, a gap equal to about four or five small
refineries. Europe, including  Russia , has 175 oil refineries,
according to Bloomberg data.  “What we’ll likely see over time is that only the large
refineries, particularly the ones able to make diesel which is
increasingly in demand will survive, and it still won’t be
easy,” he said.  Excess capacity in the industry makes the outlook for oil
refining in the next few decades “dire”, BP Chief Economist
 Christof Ruehl  said on Jan. 18.  Swedish refiner Preem AB said yesterday it plans to cut 10
percent of its workforce at plants in Gothenburg and Lysekil.  De Simone’s association would favor import duties of some
sort for countries that offer lower prices because they don’t
operate with the same level of environmental, safety and labor
guarantees as European refiners.  “Asian and Far Eastern refiners benefit from unfair
advantages that need to be balanced somehow,” De Simone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome   at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  