-- J.C. Penney to Change Prices Amid Revamp
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-25T21:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/j-c-penney-to-change-prices-amid-revamp.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Chief Executive
Officer Ron Johnson today laid out his plans to revive the
retailer, starting with an overhaul of pricing and store
layouts.  The retailer is introducing a three-tier price model and
will scale back sales to 12 a year, Johnson told analysts today
in New York at his first public presentation heading the Plano,
Texas-based company. Each month, J.C. Penney will offer
discounted prices on seasonal products, such as back-to-school
items, and will also have so-called “best prices” promotions
on the first and third Friday every month, he said.  Investors are looking to Johnson, who built  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) 
retail operation, to revitalize a department-store chain that
has suffered as the housing slump and persistent unemployment
cut spending by its target middle-income shoppers. Johnson said
the pricing plan may help triple sales.  “Johnson needs to make J.C. Penney a destination, which it
hasn’t been in decades,”  Craig Johnson , president of Customer
Growth Partners in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said today in an
interview. “He did that for Apple, but now he must do that for
a tired mall anchor. His background at Apple might serve him
well, but merchandising a department store is much more
challenging.”  The shares, which jumped the most in a decade the day
Johnson’s hiring was announced in June,  fell  1 percent to $34.27
at the close in New York and rose 8.8 percent in 2011.  Overhaul Layouts  J.C. Penney will spend $80 million a month to promote
monthlong sales events and will feature Ellen Degeneres in
television advertisements. The chain will also reconstruct store
layouts and change the colors and presentation on a monthly
basis to promote sales. The company had 590 promotional events
last year, Johnson said.  The new pricing and promotions will begin Feb. 1, the
company said in a statement today. The retailer will divide
entire locations into as many as 100 small shops inside stores,
adding new brands each month including Martha Stewart and
Nanette Lepore. The company expects to have 30 new and revamped
brands this year. In the center of each store will be a so-
called Town Square featuring services.  “We have to have better pricing,”  Ron Johnson  said today
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. ”We have to improve
our products and presentation.”  Profit Forecast  J.C. Penney’s same-store sales growth trailed the average
rate for 17 retailers in 11 of 12 months last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  has declined for the past
three years.  The company cut its fourth-quarter profit forecast earlier
this month, citing lower-than-expected sales and additional
markdowns.  “No one said it was going to be easy,” President Michael Francis said today in an interview. “But we also have to
remember that for half of America this is a still a brand that
they admire, respect, visit and have an affinity for. So we’re
not starting at zero. What we’re doing is really taking the
tarnish off the brass if you will.”  Francis came to J.C. Penney in October from  Target Corp. (TGT5) ,
where former executive Johnson helped introduce designers such
as Michael Graves to give that retailer its “cheap chic”
reputation. Johnson has also brought in former Apple executives
as chief operating officer and chief talent officer. His first
strategic move was an agreement with  Martha Stewart  to sell home
and lifestyle merchandise.  ‘Total Genius’  Stewart said Johnson’s acumen in reinventing brands and
merchandising convinced her to sign on.  “Ron is a total genius when it comes to dissecting an
industry,” Stewart said in an interview at the presentation
today.  Both Johnson and Francis talked about restoring luster and
theater to department stores. Johnson recalled the excitement of
trips to the Dayton’s store near his home growing up, before
department stores “got lost in the retail landscape.”  Mervyns LLC, a California-based department store chain,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  and closed its stores in 2008
after six decades in business. Mervin Morris, founder of that
chain, attended today’s event and said he believed that Johnson
could steer J.C. Penney through the changes in the industry and
revive the retailer.  “I’m betting on the jockey, not the horse,” Morris said.
“Ron Johnson is the jockey and I’ll bet he’s going to make it
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  