-- Japan ‘More Than Hollowing Out’ With First Trade Gap Since 1980: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a ,   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k
-- 2012-01-25T07:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/japan-has-first-trade-deficit-since-1980-on-quake-disruption-global-slump.html
Japan ’s first annual trade gap since
1980, driven by an energy-import surge as nuclear plants shut
down and by a shift of manufacturing overseas, threatens to
undermine the nation’s status as the world’s largest creditor.  A third straight monthly merchandise  trade deficit  in
December capped an annual shortfall of 2.49 trillion yen ($32
billion), the finance ministry said in Tokyo today. The data
reflect the impact of the record earthquake in March, which
sparked a nuclear crisis that shut most reactors, as well as
longer-term shifts such as Nissan Motor Co.’s decision to move
some production to lower-cost Thailand.  “This is more than hollowing out -- the government hasn’t
found any solutions to electricity and at this point I don’t see
that we’re going to have nuclear power back again,” said
Masaaki Kanno, chief economist in  Tokyo  at JPMorgan Securities
Japan Co. The deficit will “expand in coming years,” he said.  Money flowing out through trade may erode investors’
confidence that Japan’s creditor status makes it a haven for
investment, complicating the government’s efforts to manage the
world’s  largest public debt . Policy makers have said the
country’s shrinking population means it will need to turn
increasingly to foreign investors to buy its bonds.  Kanno, a former chief foreign-exchange dealer at Japan’s
central bank, said that the current account, which includes
trade and interest earnings on overseas holdings, could tip into
deficit as soon as 2015. “The possibility of a steady increase
in Japan’s yields stemming from fiscal concerns is bigger than
the next tsunami or a big earthquake.”  Yen, Stocks  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  stayed higher after the
figures as the yen weakened further from the postwar high that
had risked accelerating the shift of exporters abroad.  The benchmark index closed 1.1 percent higher. The yen was
at 77.87 per dollar as of 4:41 pm in Tokyo, 3.2 percent less
than a high of 75.35 on Oct. 31.  Japan’s current-account surplus has meant that it hasn’t
needed to rely on foreign capital to finance its budget
deficits, unlike the U.S. Foreign buyers hold about less than 10
percent of the public debt, compared with almost half for the
U.S. Yields on 10-year Japanese  government bonds  were at 1
percent, among the world’s lowest.  A legacy of years of trade surpluses has left Japan as
largest net holder of external assets, a position it had for a
20th straight year in 2010, with a position of 251.5 trillion
yen, according to the finance ministry. Figures for 2011 are due
in May.  China  is second-largest, according to the ministry.  Deeper Drop  Exports (JNTBEXPY)  dropped 8 percent in December from a year earlier,
today’s report showed, compared with the 7.4 percent median
estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A global economic slowdown contributed to the decline. The
International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its world growth
forecast to 3.3 percent for 2012, from the 4 percent seen in
September.  Elsewhere in  Asia , The Bank of  Thailand  cut  interest rates 
for a second straight meeting to help spur a recovery from the
nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years and counter moderating
external demand. The bank trimmed its  one-day bond repurchase
rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent, matching
the forecasts of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In  Australia , consumer prices were unchanged in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, a report showed today.
In  Europe , a report may show Britain slipping closer to a
double-dip recession.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.1 percent in
the fourth quarter, the first decline in a year, according to
the median of 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Power Hit  A tsunami engulfing much of Japan’s coastal northeast after
the March 11 magnitude-9 temblor caused the worst catastrophe at
a reactor since Chernobyl in 1986. Besides crippling the
Fukushima Dai Ichi plant, the disaster sparked concerns about
safety that have prompted the closure of most of the industry,
in what was the world’s third-biggest nuclear power generator.  The morning of the quake, the country had 37 reactors
generating 34,417 megawatts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As of Jan. 13, there were five operating with a
capacity of 5,058 megawatts; Tokyo Electric Power Co. shut down
an additional plant for regular maintenance yesterday.  Japan’s 10 regional utilities generated about 8 percent of
electricity from nuclear power in December, according to data
released by the Federation of Electric Power Companies. Nuclear
power accounted for about 33 percent of total power generation
in February 2011, according to the data.  ‘Never Return’  “Even if the economy picks up, the balance will never
return to the days of a 6 or 7 trillion yen surplus,” said
 Masayuki Kichikawa , chief economist at Merrill Lynch Japan
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Imports of liquid gas from  developing
countries  will continue to increase, and I think the balance
will hover near zero in the next couple years.”  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said yesterday the
trade deficit “won’t become a firmly established trend”
because it is driven by “temporary factors” such as increased
energy demands after the earthquake.  The yen’s climb poses a longer-term threat. Toyota Motor
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Akio Toyoda said this month the
“ideal”  exchange rate  is 90. The currency has soared 16
percent in the past two years. Over five years, the appreciation
has been 56 percent.  Honda’s Move  Honda Motor Co. picked  Ohio  for sole global production site
for its high-performance hybrid Acura NSX, and will use a
Mexican plant to make small cars. The two projects will give
Honda the ability to produce its entire vehicle range, from
cheapest to most expensive, within  North America .  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, shifted
output of the March compact to Thailand from Oppama, Japan, in
March 2010 to offset the effect of a strengthening yen, and to
cut costs by basing production near suppliers. It boosted
imports 86 percent to 50,269 last year from shipping the model
back to Japan, according to the  Japan Automobile Importers
Association .  Elpida Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest chipmaker,
announced in September that it plans to move almost half of its
Hiroshima plant’s production to  Taiwan .  The so-called hollowing out still leaves Japan for now with
unemployment rates that are the envy of most advanced economies,
with a jobless rate of 4.5 percent in December, about half the
level of the U.S.  Fiscal Pressure  Even so, with the population declining since 2006, and a
Cabinet Office report yesterday indicating a trend rate of
economic growth of 1 percent in coming years, policy makers are
under pressure to take steps that avert a crisis of confidence
in the nation’s debt. The  finance ministry  said yesterday total
outstanding borrowing will probably reach 985.4 trillion yen in
the year ending March 2012, up 6.6 percent from a year earlier.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday reiterated his call
for opposition lawmakers to engage in talks on boosting the
sales levy. The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan wants
parliamentary approval to raise the tax to 8 percent in April
2014 and then to 10 percent in October 2015, from 5 percent now.  Such a step won’t be sufficient, the Cabinet Office said
yesterday. The primary budget deficit, which excludes the cost
of servicing debt, will be the equivalent of 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product for the year through March 2021, a
projection that incorporated the tax measure.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told lawmakers that letting
public finances deteriorate further would present a
“significant risk to stable economic growth” and that efforts
to contain debt should be made “as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 ewarnock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  