-- U.S. Agencies Cast Doubt on Republican Bill to Push Keystone XL
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-25T17:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/keystone-bill-raises-legal-questions-u-s-official-says-1-.html
A Republican-backed bill to advance
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which was
delayed by the Obama administration, poses jurisdictional and
legal issues, representatives of two U.S. agencies said.  The bill requiring the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission , an independent agency, to issue a permit raises
“serious questions,” Kerri-Ann Jones, assistant secretary in
the State Department’s Bureau of Oceans and International
Environmental and Scientific Affairs, said today at a House
Energy and Commerce Committee panel hearing in Washington.  FERC, which oversees interstate transport of electricity,
oil and natural gas, lacks authority to locate oil pipelines,
Jeffrey Wright, the agency’s director of the Office of Energy
Projects, said today at the hearing. The bill doesn’t give FERC
enough time to adequately assess the project, Wright said.  Republicans are pressing to start work on the $7 billion
pipeline, which was delayed by President  Barack Obama  in
November to consider an alternate route. Last year, lawmakers
set Feb. 21 to issue a permit, leading Obama to deny the
request, citing a lack of time for a review.  Representative  Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican who backs
the pipeline, proposed the legislation requiring FERC to issue a
permit for the 1,661 mile (2,673 kilometer) pipeline within 30
days after receiving the application, provided the project is
deemed safe.  Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, said
Terry’s legislation “is an earmark that benefits just one
project” and exempts the pipeline “from every federal and
state permitting requirement.”  Gulf Refineries  The proposed pipeline requires the State Department’s
approval because it would cross the U.S. border with  Canada ,
bringing crude from the oil sands of  Alberta  to refineries on
the  Gulf of Mexico . Obama has invited Calgary-based TransCanada
to reapply, which the company said it would accept.  Terry’s bill “appears to override foreign-policy and
national-security considerations,” of a cross-border permit,
Jones said.  Supporters, including some labor unions, have said the
pipeline will create as many as 20,000 jobs. Environmental
groups say the pipeline will taint water supplies.  Differences over the pipeline were evident among lawmakers
today, as Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power, halted the
hearing for 10 minutes after Waxman asked the committee to call
additional witnesses.  Partisan Disputes  “Are you calling the Koch brothers during the recess?”
asked Waxman, who questioned whether closely held Koch
Industries Inc. of Wichita,  Kansas , may benefit from the
Keystone XL pipeline. The Koch brothers helped to start
Americans for Prosperity, a group that has backed Republicans
and helped promote Tea Party rallies last year.  “The Koch brothers have nothing to do with this project,”
Whitman said earlier in the exchange.  Republicans criticized the State Department for taking 3
1/2 years to review the project. “In the private sector, firms
would be fired for taking that long” Representative David
McKinley, a West Virginia Republican, said.  The pipeline will cause the U.S. to become a “middleman”
in the transport of oil, which will originate in Canada and be
shipped abroad, Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said.  Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman said yesterday he will urge
Obama to reverse the decision and let pipeline construction
start in U.S. border states. This would give Nebraska time to
conduct an environmental review without stalling the project.
The Obama administration has said Heineman’s request for a
revised route required a new review, and a delay until early
2013.  “It is no surprise that so many Americans consider this
decision to be a no-brainer, especially since the environmental
impacts of the project have been extensively studied for years”
and found to be minimal, Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, said at the hearing.  The bill is H.R. 3548  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  