-- Kuwait Selects France’s Total as Partner for $9 Billion China Refinery
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-25T14:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/kuwait-selects-total-as-partner-to-develop-9-billion-refinery-in-china.html
Kuwait chose  Total (FP)  SA as the third
partner to build a $9 billion oil refinery in China, the head of
Kuwait Petroleum Corp. said, as the Gulf state seeks a foothold
in  Asia ’s biggest consumer of refined products.  “We are negotiating now with Total, and hopefully we will
reach an agreement based on a memorandum of understanding,”
Chief Executive Officer Farouk Al-Zanki said in a telephone
interview today from  Kuwait City . “We’d like to sign it in
February.”  Total would take part of Kuwait’s 50 percent stake in the
refining and chemical venture, with the Paris-based company’s
share “still to be decided,” Al-Zanki said.  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp.  holds the remaining 50 percent. The complex,
scheduled to start operating in 2015, will include a refinery
with an oil-processing capacity of 15 million metric tons a
year, or about 300,000 barrels a day, as well as a 1 million
ton-a-year ethylene plant,  China  Petroleum said in November.  Kuwait Petroleum is pushing ahead with the joint venture in
southern China’s Guangdong province and a 200,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in neighboring  Vietnam  as part of a strategy to expand
abroad, according to Al-Zanki. Kuwait is the fourth-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
and Asia is its biggest market, accounting for 84 percent of the
Gulf state’s crude exports in 2010, according to OPEC data.  Saudis in Asia  Other Persian Gulf crude producers are making similar
efforts in Asia. Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as  Saudi Aramco ,
plans to build refineries in China and  Indonesia  as part of a
$200 billion spending program during the next decade, Aramco
Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih said in a Jan. 14
interview in Dhahran. Refined products can fetch higher prices
than oil, and China, Vietnam and Indonesia are among Asia’s
fastest-growing economies.  State-run Kuwait Petroleum and Japanese refiner  Idemitsu
Kosan Co. (5019)  each has a 35.1 percent stake in the Nghi Son refinery
in Vietnam. State-controlled Vietnam Oil & Gas Group holds 25.1
percent of the venture, and  Mitsui Chemicals Inc. (4183)  has the rest.  The partners have yet to agree on currency exchange rates
to be used for the Vietnamese project, Al-Zanki said. “There’s
a team looking closely at ways and means to secure the foreign
exchange, while other financial issues are being resolved.”  Resolving Issues  Al-Zanki expects the partners in Nghi Son to resolve their
remaining issues by the end of February, while Kuwait Petroleum
and China Petroleum are “committed” to their joint venture and
have formed a team to determine how best to proceed.  The Kuwaiti company also plans to build an oil refinery at
home, at a cost of at least 4 billion dinars ($14.4 billion), to
help meet domestic demand. The 615,000 barrel-a-day Al-Zour
plant is still awaiting final approval from the Supreme
Petroleum Council, the country’s highest decision-making body
for oil policy.  Kuwait  National Petroleum Co., the state-run refiner, is
seeking foreign companies to work as consultants on the Al-Zour
project, which stalled three years ago amid political
opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  