-- Bollard Signals Longer New Zealand Rate Pause With Inflation Under Control
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-01-26T03:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/n-z-s-bollard-keeps-rates-at-record-low-on-global-risks-slower-inflation.html
New Zealand  central bank Governor
Alan Bollard signaled interest rates may stay at a record low
for longer than he intended a month ago, citing inflation that’s
“reassuringly” contained amid Europe’s debt crisis.  “Given ongoing uncertainty around global conditions and
the moderate pace of domestic demand, it remains prudent to keep
the official cash rate on hold at 2.5 percent,” Bollard said in
a statement today in Wellington. That was a change from his
remarks in December, when he said it was “prudent for now” to
hold rates for a ninth straight month.  New Zealand’s recovery may struggle to accelerate as
Europe’s fiscal turmoil slows the economies of  Australia  and
 Asia , which buy almost two-thirds of the country’s exports.
Bollard held rates rather than matching cuts in Australia and
 Thailand  because reconstruction of earthquake-devastated
Christchurch city is expected to boost growth and fan inflation.  “They have moved out the timing of the first rate hike,”
Dominick Stephens, chief economist of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s
New Zealand unit, said from Auckland. “It’s likely to be
September or possibly later.”  Last month, Bollard indicated a rate rise may happen about
mid-2012. Today’s change in stance reflects less inflation
pressure and a rise in the currency since December, Stephens
said. New Zealand’s dollar is the best-performing Group of 10
currency the past month, rising 5.4 percent.  Stronger Currency  The  New Zealand dollar  remained higher after Bollard’s
comments. It bought 81.65 U.S. cents at 4:04 p.m. in Wellington
from 81.39 cents immediately before the statement was released.  Today’s decision was forecast by all 14 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. In a survey of economists last week,
seven predicted a rate rise in or before September and seven
expect no change until the fourth quarter.  “The global economy remains fragile and risks to the
outlook remain,” Bollard said. “World prices for New Zealand’s
export commodities have remained elevated but the recent
appreciation of the New Zealand dollar is reducing exporters’
returns.”  Consumers are reluctant to spend, diminishing results at
companies including Christchurch-based  Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. (KMD) ,
which sells outdoor clothing and equipment. It said last month
the retail environment had become increasingly difficult in both
Australia and New Zealand.  ‘Below Expectations’  “Our trading performance throughout the Christmas period
to date has been below expectations, which is a reflection of
weaker  consumer spending ,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Halkett said in a statement sent to the stock exchange Dec. 22.  Financial  market sentiment  has improved slightly since the
previous rate decision, Bollard said. Still, the debt crisis has
increased the cost of international funding “which will likely
pressure funding costs for New Zealand banks over the coming
year,” he said.  Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury region in the
 South Island  has been rocked by quakes since September 2010,
including a Feb. 22 temblor that killed 181 people. Authorities
are demolishing city buildings and repairing homes, while large-
scale reconstruction is yet to begin. A further series of
aftershocks has struck the city since Dec. 23.  “Repairs and reconstruction in Canterbury will provide a
significant boost for an extended period, though there may be
further delays resulting from the aftershocks,” Bollard said.  Slumping Prices  New Zealand consumer prices unexpectedly fell in the fourth
quarter, according to a report on Jan. 19. Prices rose 1.8
percent in the year ended Dec. 31, less than the midpoint of the
1 percent to 3 percent range Bollard is required to target.  Reports this year add to the case for a slow economic
recovery. Spending on debit and credit cards fell a second month
in December, and job advertisements also declined from November.
Business confidence declined, with a majority of firms saying
fourth-quarter profits fell and fewer saying they expect first-
quarter earnings to improve, the New Zealand Institute of
Economic Research Inc. said in a report on Jan. 17.  “We continue to see modest growth,” Bollard said today.
“Over recent months there have been signs of a limited recovery
in household spending and the housing market. Reassuringly,
inflation pressures have remained well contained.”  Monetary Easing  Asian central bankers have been lowering interest rates as
 Europe ’s crisis threatens global growth. The  International
Monetary Fund  on Jan. 24 cut its forecast for global growth and
warned that the world may face a recession if the euro-region’s
turmoil intensified.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its benchmark
 interest rate  a quarter point to 4 percent on Feb. 7, according
to 21 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered borrowing costs at meetings in November and
December, with the rate now at 4.25 percent.  Thailand yesterday cut its one-day bond repurchase rate a
quarter point. The  Philippines  this month lowered interest rates
for the first time since July 2009. In the U.S. yesterday,
Federal Reserve officials said the federal funds target rate, at
zero to 0.25 percent, will likely stay low until at least
late-2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  