-- Naira Rises to 5-Week High on Oil Company Dollar Sales, Auction
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-25T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/naira-gains-for-second-day-on-oil-company-dollar-sales-auction.html
Nigeria ’s naira appreciated for the
second day against the dollar, strengthening to a five-week
high, on sales from oil companies after the central bank
auctioned the U.S. currency today.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer advanced 0.7
percent to 159.80 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of 4:41
p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, heading for the highest
level since Dec. 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold $250 million at a twice-weekly
auction today, with the marginal rate, also used as the
prevailing exchange rate, stronger by 0.1 percent to 156.85
naira compared with 157 naira at a previous sale on Jan. 23,
Abuja-based bank said.  “ Oil companies  sold an undisclosed amount of dollars to
some banks, which complemented the supply by the central bank,”
Tunde Ladipo, chief executive officer of Valuechain Investment
Ltd., which trades currencies, said by phone today. “The sales
are helping to reduce pressure on the naira arising from limited
transactions during the general workers’ strike.”  Labor unions in Africa’s biggest oil producer began a
nationwide strike on Jan. 9, which limited trading in
currencies, shut banks, businesses and ports after the
government scrapped fuel subsidies on Jan. 1. Gasoline prices
more than doubled from 65 naira ($0.40) a liter after cutbacks
were announced. The workers suspended industrial action on Jan.
16 after President  Goodluck Jonathan  restricted gasoline-price
increases to 97 naira a liter.  “The government’s plan to eliminate fuel subsidies would
have helped relieve some of the pressures on foreign exchange
market by reducing demand related to leakages,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, analysts at Lagos-based FBN
Capital, said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “However,
given that the government only succeeded partially with this
objective, the pressure on the naira remains,” and the central
bank “continues to withhold information on bids at its
auctions.”  Ghana ’s cedi appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.7005 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  