-- National Bank of Egypt’s Amer Says Change to Spur Growth: Voices
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-01-25T08:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/national-bank-of-egypt-s-amer-says-change-to-spur-growth-voices.html
Tarek Amer, chairman of National
Bank of  Egypt , comments on the changing political and economic
environment in the North African country one year after a
popular uprising ended the 30-year rule of  Hosni Mubarak .  Government-owned  National Bank of Egypt  is the country’s
biggest lender, controlling 24 percent of total banking assets.
Amer, a former board member of the Central Bank of Egypt, spoke
in an interview in Cairo yesterday.  On the elected parliament:  “Investors want to see stable organizations and clear
policies.  We’ve seen dramatic change when we’ve established clear and
solid policies so people can read the future behavior of
institutions and policy makers.  I was personally very happy to see the parliament meeting
yesterday.  It’s a very important step in Egypt’s future and Egypt’s
economic development, because as a person that’s responsible for
business within the economy, we’ve always felt the hindrances
because of the political system.”  On the 50 percent drop in Egypt’s international reserves in
the past year and the decline in economic growth:  “I’m not concerned about the reserves. The purpose of the
reserves is to service difficult periods like this.  Once we have the government in place and it’s very clear
what kind of economic policies it’s advocating, everything can
be restored very quickly. Tourism, I don’t think will take more
than three to four months before you start getting to previous
levels.  Today, Egypt continues to feed and spend and consume as it
was before the revolution. We are importing every year for $51
billion.  In Egypt, amidst all this revolution and change, there was
no loss of confidence in the economy. Egyptians increased their
transfers from abroad by 23 percent to reach $13 billion.
Egyptians left their funds at banks and  bank deposits  grew.
Imports continued at the same level and exports increased.”  On liquidity levels at local banks and the growing  budget
deficit :  “This is one of our weaknesses now in the economy, the
budget deficit, and it has to be addressed.  Today the banks have a big stock of treasury bills. But
banks raise the money through repo-ing the treasury bills at the
central bank. Our loan-to-deposit ratio is around 55 percent to
60 percent.  Egyptian banks are very liquid in local currency and in
foreign currency.  Of course the cost of borrowing increased because of the
government deficit and their stock of that increase. Now this is
the challenge of the government, how they’re going to deal with
this deficit.  The new government should take advantage of the revolution
to finally implement policies that might not seem popular but
are in the interest of the economy.  We always said we cannot do far-fetched economic reform
without political reform because unpopular governments cannot
take the hard decisions just to keep people quiet. I hope our
new government today doesn’t adopt the same ways.”  On the weakening Egyptian pound:  “We’ve tested the management of monetary policy at the
 central bank  for the last nine years. And in many situations,
they’ve proven very good.  ‘‘I’m not concerned about what’s going to happen with
foreign exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  