-- Nebraska’s Governor Plans to Urge Obama to Proceed With Keystone
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/nebraska-s-governor-plans-to-urge-obama-to-proceed-with-keystone.html
Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman said
he will urge President Barack Obama to reverse his decision
denying a permit for  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline
and let construction begin in segments in U.S. border states.  Heineman, a Republican and chairman of the National
Governors Association, said this approach would give his state
time to conduct an environmental review without stalling the $7
billion project. He said in an interview yesterday in Seattle
that he will raise the issue with Obama next month during an NGA
meeting in  Washington .  “The president should -- I call it a conditional yes --
say, ‘Yes, TransCanada, if you’re willing to move forward and
take a risk that Nebraska will get it done,’ which we will, ‘you
go ahead and start building from our northern border and our
southern border,’” Heineman said.  Obama  announced  on Jan. 18 that he agreed with the State
Department’s recommendation to deny TransCanada’s permit
application because a deadline set by congressional Republicans
prevented a full review of the pipeline’s health and
environmental impact. His administration invited TransCanada to
reapply, which the company said it would accept.  “I just want to suggest to the president that, let’s put
American jobs first, let’s reduce our dependence on foreign
oil,” Heineman said. “And if this pipeline makes sense, which
I think it does, and we’ve certainly had some indication from
the president that’s where he wants to head, let’s make the
decision now, not 10 months from now.”  Clarity Needed  White House spokesman  Clark Stevens  said the decision on
Keystone XL reflected the “arbitrary deadline” set by
Republicans for issuing a permit.  The denial of a permit “does not prejudge any future
projects, and any new proposal will be subject to the important
safety, economic and environmental assessments that must inform
any final decision,” Stevens said yesterday in an e-mail.  The pipeline, when completed, would carry 700,000 barrels
of crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on the
 Gulf of Mexico . It would run through  South Dakota , Montana,
 Oklahoma ,  Kansas  and  Texas , which support the plan.  The State Department must issue a permit for the pipeline
to proceed because it would cross an international border.  “We want to have a conversation with the Department of
State,” Heineman said. “Who can we do a memorandum of
understanding with that would continue to allow us to move
forward with that environmental impact statement?”  Special Session  Heineman, who supports the project, sought changes to the
proposed route that would steer the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)
pipeline away from the environmentally sensitive Ogallala
Aquifer under the Sand Hills region. He called a special session
of the state Legislature, which voted to conduct an
environmental review of an alternate route.  The state will take “a timeout” from its review “to
figure out how do we continue to move forward,” Heineman, 63,
said yesterday during a break in an NGA meeting.  He said Calgary-based TransCanada had planned to propose an
alternate route to  Nebraska  last week before Obama’s
announcement and is willing to begin construction on the
northern and southern portions of the pipeline.  “There are three states to go through to get to Nebraska
on both ends, so we could have our process done,” Heineman
said.  TransCanada applied for a U.S. permit in 2008.  ‘Fully Committed’  “While we are disappointed, TransCanada remains fully
committed to the construction of Keystone XL,” Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  said in a statement following Obama’s
announcement. “Plans are already under way on a number of
fronts to largely maintain the construction schedule of the
project.”  Representative Lee Terry, a Nebraska Republican, has
introduced a bill that would require the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  to approve the pipeline if it met safety
requirements.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s energy and power
subcommittee will hold a hearing on the bill today.  Max Weiss, a spokesman for Terry, said Republicans are
considering attaching the Keystone measure to the highway bill
that funds U.S. infrastructure projects.  “Keystone being tied to such a ‘must pass’ bill is an
option,” Weiss said in an e-mail. Republicans have also said
they might try to include it in an extension of the payroll tax
cut.  Canada is the largest U.S. oil supplier at about 2.67
million barrels a day, compared with about 970,000 barrels a day
from  Venezuela , which ranked fourth in exports to the U.S. in
the first 10 months of 2011, according to the Energy Department.
Mexico and  Saudi Arabia  ranked second and third in shipments to
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  Seattle  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 