-- Netflix Discord in 66 Cent Loss to 96 Cent Net Outlooks: Tech
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/netflix-discord-in-66-cent-loss-to-96-cent-net-outlooks-tech.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , scheduled to report
fourth-quarter results today, will seek to reassure investors
that it has stemmed a subscriber revolt in the U.S. and is
making progress toward a profit in  Europe  and  Latin America .  Analysts project Netflix, the operator of an online and
mail-order movie rental service, will post fourth-quarter profit
of 54 cents a share, the average of 29  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg and a drop from 87 cents a year earlier. They estimate
the  Los Gatos , California-based company will report sales of
$857 million, a 44 percent increase.  “They’ve set the bar fairly low for the fourth quarter,
but haven’t given much guidance for 2012, and that’s what
everyone will be looking to,” said  Arvind Bhatia , a Dallas-
based analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who has a
“neutral”  rating  on the shares.  In one sign of that uncertainty, recent estimates for 
the full year range from the 66-cent loss seen by Jefferies 
& Co. analyst Youssef Squali to a 96-cent profit forecast by
 George Askew  of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The average is for a
2-cent loss.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  began the quarter
battling the loss of 800,000 U.S. subscribers over a 60 percent
price increase for some users and since-aborted plans to force
mail-order customers into a new DVD service called Qwikster. The
shares, down 61 percent in 2011, have risen 34 percent this year
on company remarks suggesting the subscriber rolls have
stabilized.  Netflix said on Jan. 4 that users of its online streaming
service spent more than 2 billion hours watching films and TV
shows in the final three months of 2011, a sign additions to its
streaming library are restarting growth.  20 Million  The company also said it had “more than 20 million
streaming members globally.” That eased concerns it wouldn’t
meet projections of 20 million to 21.5 million domestic
streaming subscribers by year-end, said Michael Olson, an
analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis  who has an
“overweight” rating on the stock.  “The fact that it provides some floor in what people
thought could be a disastrous quarter gives increased confidence
that the wheels aren’t totally falling off,” Olson said in an
interview.  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, said the company
won’t discuss subscriber numbers prior to the results.  Netflix today probably will offer the first details on its
expansion in  Brazil  and 42 other Latin American countries, and
its foray this month into the U.K. and Ireland, Bhatia said. The
company could lose $130 million overseas this year even if it
signs up more subscribers than expected, he said.  Unlike the U.S., where Netflix enjoys a lead over rivals
such as Hulu LLC and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the company is entering
new markets with entrenched competitors, including Amazon’s
LoveFilm and NetMovies Entertainment in Brazil.  First-Quarter Outlook  In October, Netflix forecast losses for the year because of
costs to start service in the U.K. and Ireland and said it would
put further international expansion on hold.  For the current quarter, Netflix is projected to report a
loss of 29 cents a share, the average of 26 analysts’ estimates,
compared with a profit of $1.11 a year earlier. Analysts project
sales will rise 18 percent to $845.6 million.  Of 30 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, 20
forecast expect red ink through 2012 while 10 project a break-
even year or better.  Netflix  fell  1.4 percent to $92.67 at the close yesterday
in  New York . The stock is the second-best performing member of
the  S&P 500  this year, trailing only the 44.1 percent gain by
 Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)   Fading DVDs  The company probably lost 8 million to 9 million DVD
customers in the second half of 2011, including 3.6 million in
the fourth quarter, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles .  Netflix finished the third quarter with 23.8 million
domestic customers in total, according to a  letter  to
shareholders. Of the 21.5 million who take the streaming
service, fewer than half also subscribed for DVDs by mail. That
service had 13.9 million subscribers.  To offset falling average spending by subscribers who
choose not to pay $16 month for both DVDs and streaming, Netflix
must win new online customers at a faster clip, said Pachter,
who has an “underperform” rating on the stock and projects a
loss of 33 cents for all of 2012.  The company raised $400 million in November selling stock
and convertible notes, bolstering its $365.8 million in cash and
short-term investments at the end of the third quarter.  Netflix is set to lose online access to films from Sony
Pictures and Walt Disney Co. after its contract with John Malone’s  Starz (LSTZA)  LLC cable network ends in February. It plans to
offset those losses in part by commissioning exclusive content
to compete with premium channels like Time Warner Inc.’s HBO.  “While Netflix may increase subscribers in 2012, it is
paying a steep price to do so,” Pachter wrote in a Jan. 22
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  