-- New Jersey Pension-Fund Deficit Increases Even After Christie’s Overhaul
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-25T16:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/new-jersey-s-pension-fund-deficit-widens-even-after-overhaul-by-christie.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s pension fund has only
two-thirds of the assets needed to pay future benefits, and the
gap widened even as Governor  Chris Christie  boosted employee
contributions and froze raises, according to state data.  The seven retirement funds covering government workers and
teachers had a funded ratio of 67.5 percent as of June 30, down
from 70.5 percent a year earlier, according to data released
yesterday by the Division of Pensions and Benefits. The deficit
swelled by $5.5 billion during the 12 months to $41.8 billion.  To address chronic shortfalls, Christie in June signed
bills that raised pension and health-care expenses for public
workers, increased the minimum  retirement age  for new employees
to 65 from 62 and froze cost-of-living increases.  Without Christie’s changes, the deficit would have been
$61.8 billion,  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said in an interview. “We always planned for
that,” he said. “This is no surprise.”  The so-called unfunded liability stood at $53.9 billion
before passage of Christie’s plan. After approval, the gap was
lowered to $36.3 billion based on revised 30-year projections,
Pratt said.  A 2010 law required the state to begin phasing in the full
payments over seven years after a decade of lapsed funding.
Christie this year has budgeted $484 million for a pension
payment, according to the Treasury Department. Actuaries had
recommended the state put in $3 billion. Pratt said 20 years of
underfunding “magnified” the problem.  Moody’s Investors Service said a day after the pension law
was signed that it wouldn’t help  New Jersey  until 2017 and that
the health of the funds would “continue to deteriorate” as the
state skipped payments. A 2010 law required the state to begin
phasing in the full payments over seven years.  New Jersey’s pensions in 2010 had 66 percent of what was
needed to pay promised benefits, down from 71.7 percent in the
preceding year, according to an annual study by Bloomberg
Rankings. The median for all states was 74.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  