-- News Corp. ‘Fake Sheik’ Times Reporter Defends Using Unreliable Source
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/news-corp-fake-sheik-reporter-defends-using-unreliable-source.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid reporter Mazher
Mahmood, known as the “fake sheik” for the scoops he obtained
by imitating a wealthy Arab, told a U.K. inquiry into media
ethics that unreliable people are often good sources.  Mahmood, hired by the company’s Sunday Times newspaper
after two decades at its now-defunct News of the World, said he
continued using a source after police deemed the man an
unreliable witness, resulting in the collapse of a trial over an
alleged plot to kidnap singer Victoria Beckham.  “We deal with unreliable people all the time” and our job
is to test what they’re saying and decide whether to use it,
Mahmood told the judge-led inquiry in  London  today. “I’ve had
front-page splashes from crack addicts -- one even stole my tape
recorder.” The public was cleared from the courtroom to keep
Mahmood’s appearance secret.  The inquiry, a government response to the phone-hacking
scandal and alleged police bribery at the News of the World, has
heard testimony from celebrities, authors and crime victims who
said they were mistreated by the U.K. press. News Corp. closed
the News of the World in July to try to stem public anger after
it was revealed the tabloid hacked into the voice-mail messages
of a murdered school girl in 2002 to get stories.  The source Mahmood referred to gave him details about a
criminal gang that led to a 2002 story about the plot against
Beckham, the wife of soccer player  David Beckham . The story
prompted a trial of five men, which collapsed after police
decided the source -- their key witness -- was unreliable
because News of the World paid him 10,000 pounds ($15,600) for
the information.  Self Regulation  Mahmood told the inquiry he believes the source is
reliable. Britain’s self-regulatory body for newspapers, the
Press Complaints Commission, determined in 2003 that the
tabloid’s payment didn’t violate its code of conduct.  A call to the press office of News Corp.’s U.K. subsidiary,
News International, wasn’t immediately returned.  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, said
today that the review would finish examining the media’s
relationship with the public on Feb. 9 and begin its examination
of the press’s relationship with the police.  In December, Mahmood testified his techniques, such as
portraying different people to get stories, are justified
because his articles resulted in 261 criminal prosecutions,
including that of four men sentenced in connection to a
Pakistani cricket scandal last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  