-- NFL Extends Commissioner Roger Goodell’s Contract Through the 2018 Season
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-25T19:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/nfl-extends-commissioner-roger-goodell-s-contract-through-the-2018-season.html
The  National Football League 
extended Commissioner  Roger Goodell ’s contract through the 2018
season, the league said today in a statement.  The NFL’s 32 teams unanimously endorsed an extension for
Goodell at meetings last month. The contract announced today
expires on March 31, 2019, and is the third for Goodell, who was
hired as commissioner in 2006 after Paul Tagliabue retired.  The NFL is the most-watched sport in the U.S. and drew the
nation’s biggest television audience with last year’s  Super Bowl 
championship game between the  Green Bay Packers  and the
Pittsburgh Steelers.  “Since becoming commissioner in 2006, the NFL -- already
the leader in professional sports -- has gotten even stronger,”
Arthur Blank, owner of the  Atlanta Falcons  and chairman of the
NFL Compensation Committee, said in the statement.  In recent months, Goodell, 52, oversaw the end of a four-
month players lockout with a 10-year collective bargaining
agreement and the renewal of the league’s television contracts
with 60 percent revenue increases. The league also strengthened
its anti-steroid policy and implemented new player-safety rules.  “It is a privilege for me to serve the NFL,” said
Goodell, who first worked for the league in 1982 as an intern.
“It is the only place I have ever wanted to work.”  Players Deal  In July, the League and its players union signed a 10-year
labor agreement, ending a lockout that resulted in the
cancellation of one preseason game and delayed the start of some
training camps. The contract, the longest in the history of
major American professional sports, detailed how to divide a
projected $9.3 billion in league revenue and addressed issues
including player-safety and a rookie wage scale.  In September, the league extended its broadcast agreement
with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN in an eight-year deal valued at
roughly $15.2 billion, according to the  New York  Times.  That was followed three months later by contract extensions
with CBS Corp., News Corp.’s Fox unit and Comcast Corp.’s NBC.
Those extensions, all for nine years, will give the league a 60
percent rights-fee increase to stay on broadcast television
through the 2022 season.  Last year’s Super Bowl averaged 111 million viewers,
making it the most-watched television event in U.S. history.
During the current television season, 23 of the 25 most-watched
programs were NFL games, according to the release.  ‘Build Momentum’  “I am eagerly looking ahead to the challenge of building
on our momentum and doing all we can to improve our game for the
fans and everyone that is part of our league,” Goodell said.  A native of Jamestown, New York, Goodell worked as an
intern with the  New York Jets  in 1983 and returned to the league
the following year as an assistant in the public relations
department. He held senior positions under Tagliabue before
being named executive vice president and chief operating officer
in 2001.  Goodell’s father, Charles Goodell, was a U.S.
representative from New York who was appointed to the Senate in
1969 to complete the term of the late Robert F. Kennedy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  