-- Nissan Plans $2 Billion Plant in Mexico to Avoid Losses From Yen
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2012-01-25T23:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/nissan-to-build-2-billion-mexican-plant-to-avoid-yen-losses.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the Asian carmaker
with the biggest production capacity in Mexico, will spend as
much as $2 billion on a third factory in the country as the
yen’s strength drives the company out of Japan.  The plant will open late next year in Aguascalientes, near
one of Nissan’s two current Mexico factories, the Yokohama,
Japan-based company said yesterday. The plant, intended to
produce vehicles for the Americas, will initially make 175,000
small cars a year before capacity gradually expands, the company
said.  Nissan’s current Mexican plants, able to build more than
700,000 vehicles a year, are at their operating limit,  Bill Krueger , vice chairman of the company’s operations in the
Americas, said in a conference call. “We’ve got more capacity
and growth to be developed across the Americas.”  Japan ’s second-largest automaker shifted production of low-
cost cars to Thailand and Mexico in recent years to counter
losses from making vehicles in its home market as the yen
appreciated more than any major currency since 2010. The shift
resulted in the company becoming the second-biggest importer of
autos into Japan last year.  Nissan rose 2.5 percent to 739 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday, extending this year’s gain to 6.8 percent.  ‘More Attractive’  “Relative to what have been low-cost Asian production
sources, Mexico is looking more attractive,” said Alan Baum,
principal of Baum & Associates, a provider of automobile-
industry analysis in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “Nissan’s Versa that’s built in  Mexico  is a major vehicle
there, the U.S. and  South America , and this is going to give
more capacity to build that,” Baum said. Nissan will also have
more capacity to build the March small car and models based on
it, he said.  Nissan’s Mexican output hit a record last year, rising 20
percent from 2010 to 607,087 cars and light trucks, according to
data from the nation’s chamber of auto producers. The company
expects to produce 700,000 vehicles in Mexico by the end of this
fiscal year, local unit Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Jose Munoz said yesterday at an event in Mexico City.  The yen rose 5.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar  during
2011, the second straight year it appreciated the most among 16
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. While the yen was the only one
of the 16 to strengthen against the dollar, the peso depreciated
by 11 percent, the second most.  Honda,  Mazda (7261)   Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and Mazda Motor Corp. last year announced
plans for new auto plants in Mexico, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
North American chief, Yoshimi Inaba, has said the company may
also boost parts purchases and production in the country, which
has a network of free-trade agreements beyond Nafta, including
with Japan, the European Union and Colombia.  “Mexico is a key engine for Nissan’s growth in the
Americas,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said in a statement. Along with Nissan’s plant under
construction in Brazil, the Mexico factory ensures “Nissan has
the capacity it needs to increase sales volume and market share
across the Americas,” he said.  When Nissan’s plant opens next year, the company estimates
it will be able to produce as many as 1 million vehicles in
Mexico, the most capacity of any carmaker there. The expansion
follows about $1.2 billion of upgrades to its auto-assembly
factories in Aguascalientes and Cuernavaca in the past two
years, according to David Reuter, a Nissan spokesman.  Regional Goal  Nissan will be able to make 2 million cars and trucks
annually in the Americas, including factories in Tennessee,
Mississippi and  Brazil , Reuter said.  The company has a goal of getting 85 percent of autos sold
in the Americas from plants in the region, up from about 70
percent currently, Krueger said in  Detroit  this month.  The $2 billion investment includes the initial 175,000-unit
assembly line and future planned expansion of the factory, and
an industrial park for parts suppliers next to it, Krueger said
yesterday on the call.  The new Aguascalientes plant will create 3,000 direct jobs,
and boost Nissan’s employment in Mexico to 13,500.  Nissan this month said it would supply U.S.-built engines
to  Daimler AG (DAI)  as part of expanding cooperation between Nissan,
its alliance partner  Renault SA (RNO)  and Daimler.  Nissan’s Reuter declined to say whether Daimler would be
involved in the new Mexican plant, and didn’t provide details on
the models it will produce.  Marc Binder, a spokesman for Daimler, also declined to
comment on whether the Stuttgart, Germany-based company was
interested in working with Nissan at the new plant.  In 2011, Nissan sold a record 224,509 autos in Mexico, up
19 percent from the previous year, according to the nation’s
auto dealership association, known as AMDA. The company has been
Mexico’s top seller of cars and light trucks in the past three
years, beating out  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  