-- No Deals Brewing for Beermakers After $195 Billion Buying Spree
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/no-deals-brewing-for-beermakers-after-195-billion-buying-spree.html
Global brewers, after spending $195
billion on acquisitions in the last decade, may slow the pace of
deals in 2012 as beermakers struggle to maintain profit growth
amid rising costs and weaker demand in the U.S. and Europe.  The two biggest companies to emerge from the spree,
Budweiser owner  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , are
best positioned to profit with a presence spread over  Africa ,
Asia and  Latin America , while smaller rivals  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  and
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  may suffer from their higher exposure to Europe.  Brewers will be “just getting through 2012, keeping their
heads down, managing price and trying to keep input costs
down,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
said. “It’s going to be tough for everyone, and particularly
Carlsberg and Heineken.”  More than $21 billion changed hands for beer assets in
2011, topped by SABMiller’s A$10.5 billion ($11 billion)
takeover of Foster’s Group Ltd. That made it the busiest year
since 2008, when InBev NV paid $52 billion for Anheuser-Busch
Cos. As sales volume growth decelerates and the cost of making
beer rises, companies including the integrated AB InBev,
Heineken and Carlsberg may focus more on running their own
businesses this year than buying others.  Carlsberg  shares  have dropped 25 percent in Copenhagen in
the past year and Amsterdam-based Heineken has dropped 4
percent, compared to gains of 14 percent at SABMiller and 13
percent at AB InBev. Carlsberg said in November that it plans to
eliminate as many as 150 jobs across  Europe .  Reduced Forecasts  Heineken and Carlsberg both cut their forecasts last year
due to tough conditions in Europe and  Russia . Grain harvests
have also been relatively poor in the area this year, according
to Stirling, which could lead to sustained high costs in 2012
weighing on their margins.  The amount of beer sold may rise 3.1 percent from 2012
through 2016, slower than the 4.9 percent increase in the four
years ended 2008, according to analysts at Nomura including  Ian Shackleton . Commodity costs are higher, including malting
barley, a key ingredient in beer, which has risen 65 percent
since the futures contract started trading in May 2010.  “It’s unlikely that growth will return to historical high
levels of 2005 to 2008,” Nomura wrote in a note. “The cost of
business is set to rise.”  Beer Volume  Beer volume and revenue growth may be particularly limited
in Europe and the U.S. as brewers compete for sales amid
economic turmoil and high unemployment. SABMiller, the first
brewer to post results for the three months through December,
reported declining volumes in both regions, as every other unit
grew. Carl Short, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ in  London , said
“recessionary conditions” may return to Europe this year.  Beermakers may have to rely on internal cost cutting as
price increases may be limited. Carlsberg and Heineken may have
a “really tough time managing the pricing mechanism,” said
Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Banco Santander.  Carlsberg, which exited or sold sites in Switzerland,
Finland,  Germany  and Norway since 2009, may close more breweries
and cut costs, according to Nomura analysts.  AB InBev should deliver $270 million of so-called synergies
this fiscal year from the Anheuser-Busch acquisition, and
Heineken will give details of a new cost-reduction plan when it
reports full-year results Feb. 15.  Trading at Premium  Analysts at Nomura and UBS AG have reduced their outlooks
on the beverage industry, which also includes spirits companies.
The stocks “already command a significant premium to the
market,” according to Nomura’s Shackleton.  Deals including Heineken’s purchase of Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB’s beer unit in 2010 and SAB’s takeover of Foster’s
have previously helped brewers diversify into faster-growth
regions away from the U.S. and Europe. With  Brazil ’s Schincariol
Participacoes & Representacoes also off the market after  Japan ’s
Kirin Holdings Co. swooped in last year, big acquisitions may be
tough to find in 2012.  “There are fewer assets out there that move the needle,”
said Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Banco Santander. “We’re
going into a period where companies are inward-focused.”  Carlsberg could make  small acquisitions  in  Asia . The Danish
brewer’s biggest deal in 2011 was buying 30 percent of  China ’s
Chongqing Brewery Co. for about $31 million.  Any buyer with an eye on Corona brewer Grupo Modelo SAB,
Groupe Castel and Turkey’s Anadolu Efes would have to wrangle
with family ownership and existing joint ventures.  Expanding outside Europe and the U.S. isn’t necessarily a
quick fix for brewers. SABMiller said Jan. 19 that Foster’s pro-
forma sales slid 6 percent in the quarter ended Dec. 31, raising
concern from some analysts that benefits from the acquisition
could be harder to come by.  “Realistically, it’s probably not on anybody’s agenda” in
2012, Bucalo said. “This looks like kind of a low-drama year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  