-- North Dakota Oil Boom Brings Blight With Growth as Costs Soar
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/north-dakota-oil-boom-brings-blight-with-growth-as-costs-soar.html
The gravel road that borders Dave
Hynek’s  North Dakota  farm is designed to carry 10 tractor-
trailer trucks a day. In a recent 24-hour period, about 800
passed by.  Some are traveling 90 minutes west to  Williston , where
schools Superintendent Viola LaFontaine expects as many as 3,800
students this fall, about 57 percent more than her primary
schools were built to hold.  North Dakota’s economy outpaced every other state in 2011,
with the fastest growth in personal income, jobs and  home
prices , according to Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States, or
BEES, index data. Yet the oil boom fueling the nation’s lowest
unemployment rate also has a dark side. It’s pushing rural North
Dakota’s housing, electric, water, police and  emergency services 
to the breaking point.  “It’s absolutely destroying our infrastructure,” said
Hynek, a Mountrail County commissioner, as he sat in a pickup
truck on the 1,400-acre farm where his family has grown wheat,
flax and sunflowers for four generations.  “A few years ago, our board set a goal that Mountrail
County would be a better place to live and work as this oil play
works itself out over the next 30 years,” he said. “Right now,
I would be hard-pressed to find people who agree with that.”  Drilling in the  Bakken  formation, a 360-million-year-old
shale bed two miles underground that geologists believe holds a
15,000 square-mile region of oil in North Dakota alone, foisted
big-city concerns onto rural communities where everyone knew
each other, no one locked doors, and business deals were sealed
with a handshake.  Fracking  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which water is pumped
down a well with sand and chemicals to crack rock and release
oil, allowed companies such as  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR)  to extract the energy.  Prices for gasoline and groceries in Mountrail and Williams
counties -- the heart of the boom -- are 30 percent higher than
in the state’s largest cities. Lines to eat at local restaurants
often top an hour. Finding a plumber or a handyman can take
weeks and often cost three times as much as it did three years
ago.  In  Stanley , about eight miles north of Hynek’s farm, an
argument between two men over lunch at  Joyce’s Cafe  in late
August ended when one of them ran outside and punched a wall-
sized plate-glass window, shattering it and injuring diners.  ‘Now It’s Dangerous’  “There were three rapes here last summer -- that’s in a
town with one assault in its history,” said Cory Rice, who
bought the restaurant from his grandparents. “It used to be a
quiet community. Now it’s dangerous.”  Residents are forced to reconcile their declining quality
of life with undeniable gains in prosperity. North Dakota
reported the nation’s lowest  unemployment rate  in December at
3.3 percent, compared to 8.5 percent nationwide, according the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. The state is also seeing significant
wage gains, with the average annual salary growing 79 percent in
Williams County, to $56,857 in 2010 when compared to 2005, and
67 percent in Mountrail County over the same period, according
to the bureau.  Higher tax receipts fostered by oil-industry revenue are
helping finance a new  water pipeline , rehabilitation of the
state penitentiary and renovation of the state’s heritage center
-- even as calls for more housing and funding for school
construction go unheeded.  The state’s three-year-old boom, which attracted thousands
of workers to 17 western counties, is progressing so quickly
that studies commissioned to determine infrastructure needs are
outdated the moment they leave the printer.  ‘Population Explosion’  “It’s almost an unmanageable population explosion,” said
Vicky Steiner, a Republican state legislator and executive
director of the  North Dakota Association of Oil and Gas
Producing Counties .  Williams and Mountrail counties recently banned
construction of “man camps” -- temporary developments for oil
workers -- until they can expand sewer, electrical and water
systems.  The move put pressure on an already tight housing market,
where rents for a two-bedroom without utilities skyrocketed from
$350 a month to $2,000. Some workers report paying $4,000 a
month for a three-bedroom apartment in Williston, about 60 miles
(97 kilometers) south of the Canadian border.  Five hotels are being built in Williston -- home to 14,500
people in 2010 and about 20,000 today -- and officials expect
1,200 apartments and single-family homes to be completed by
summer. With 4,000  job openings , even that won’t be enough.  ‘Five Steps Backward’  “It’s like you take four steps forward and five
backward,” said E. Ward Koeser, the city’s mayor.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s local outlet, Taco John’s and other
retailers and restaurants -- as well as the city itself -- have
trouble finding workers because of the housing shortage, Koeser
said. Two recent applicants for public-works jobs in Williston
were living in their cars.  Officials anticipate that housing slated to be completed
later this year will prompt oil workers to bring their families,
who in turn will take restaurant and retail jobs.  Yet the boom is causing some families to split up.
Minnesotan Denise Hanson, 32, whose husband got a job driving
trucks last spring, moved from Williston back to her home state
with her 7-year-old daughter in January, leaving her husband
behind in a 12-by-40-foot mobile home.  Safety Concerns  “I was driving home from school and I saw a one-ton pickup
shoot across the median pulling a trailer without tail lights,”
Hanson said. “Do we risk getting injured and stay here and make
money? Or do we go back home and do with less and be safe?”  State housing officials say escalating rents are forcing
longtime residents to leave. They can’t find developers
interested in building new affordable housing, they add.  “Housing costs of all types are escalating much faster
than income growth,” said  Mike Anderson , executive director of
the  North Dakota Housing Finance Agency .  Williston Public School District #1  is scraping to locate
housing for 100 homeless students. One family with seven
children lives in a recreational vehicle behind a gas station,
said Betsy Kelley, the district’s liaison to the homeless.  City and county officials say they’re not getting enough
money back from the state -- which collects an 11.5 percent tax
on oil -- to finance infrastructure upgrades.  Funding Gap  “No one ever anticipated this type of impact,” said
Donald W. Longmuir Jr., a planner and emergency coordinator for
Mountrail County. “We’re actually three to five years behind in
funding.”  Calls to the county’s volunteer ambulance and fire services
tripled since 2009, Longmuir said.  Mountrail’s 1,600-mile road system -- which became so
overloaded last spring that officials ran out of “road closed”
signs, and postal carriers were unable to deliver the mail to
some places -- needs to be rebuilt at a price tag of $600
million, Hynek said.  Williston received $1.5 million in 2011 from the oil
extraction tax, which Koeser said “doesn’t even come close” to
paying for its infrastructure needs.  LaFontaine, the Williston schools superintendent, said she
needs about $87 million to build two elementary schools and one
intermediate school and to hire new teachers. State lawmakers
voted down a bill last year that would have provided some
funding. LaFontaine, who based her estimate of 1,200 new
students this fall on new housing construction, asked oil
company executives to meet with her recently and asked for help
paying for new facilities.  Begging for Money  “I don’t know where else to go to beg for money,” she
said. “I’m desperate.”  LaFontaine and Koeser recently visited Governor Jack Dalrymple  to request aid and ask that the formula used to
return oil taxes to municipalities be revised.  “It’s too early to say whether the Legislature would
respond to that,” Dalrymple said in an interview. “About 30
percent of the taxes are returned to the counties and they
return those to the cities and townships. Revenue is going up
dramatically and that means their share is also going up
dramatically.”  The North Dakota Legislature set aside  $1.2 billion  last
spring to help counties cope with the oil boom’s impacts. About
$885.3 million remains to be distributed.  Demand for aid is high. The state received 167 applications
last fall for $50 million in road improvement grants alone, said
Gerry Fisher, assistant director of the state’s energy
infrastructure and impact office.  Oil Companies  Oil companies  say they’re doing their part to help western
North Dakota cope. Houston-based Marathon gave $1 million in
Dickenson, Continental donated $500,000 in Crosby, and New York-
based  Hess Corp. (HES)  contributed $25 million to the state for public
education, said Ron Ness, president of the Bismarck-based  North
Dakota Petroleum Council .  “Economic opportunity brings growing pains and changes to
a very rural area that hasn’t seen significant economic
opportunity for decades,” Ness said. “It’s difficult,
certainly, for any of us to keep up with the pace at which
people are moving here.”  With 5,349  producing wells  in 2010 -- compared with 3,367
three years earlier -- North Dakota is the nation’s  fourth-
largest oil producer  behind Texas, California and  Alaska .  The boom also brings other benefits. Last spring,
Legislators allocated $110 million for the Western Area Water
Supply Authority to build a pipeline from the Missouri River to
deliver drinking water to five western counties. The $150
million project -- which will require the authority to ask the
Legislature for more funding -- is expected to be complete in
three years.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  “We have a unique opportunity,” said Jaret Wirtz, the
authority’s executive director. “This was never feasible
before; there was never enough water or money available.”  Like school superintendents who recently banded together to
lobby for state funds, farmers are joining forces in the
 Northwest Landowners Association  to push for more regulated
growth.  “I don’t think any of us want it to go away,” said Troy
Coons, 48, a farmer and the group’s vice chairman. “We just
want it managed and not a free-for-all. Most people want to be
treated fair and respectably.”  Hynek and other commissioners in the state’s largest oil
producing county expect service needs to continue exploding as
more workers flood the area.  “We have 800 wells -- they tell me there’s going to be
6,000 more in five years,” Hynek said. “It scares the hell out
of me. They say you’d better get prepared for 50,000 more
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  