-- Novartis Will Pay $99 Million to Settle Overtime Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-25T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/novartis-will-pay-99-million-to-settle-overtime-lawsuit.html
A unit of  Novartis AG (NOVN) , the Swiss
drugmaker, won a judge’s preliminary approval of a $99 million
settlement in a lawsuit brought by sales representatives who
claimed they were denied overtime pay, court records show.  The class-action settlement, tentatively approved yesterday
by U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in Manhattan, covers more
than 7,000 current and former sales representatives, according
to a statement by the company and lawyers for the workers.
Crotty will hold a final approval hearing on May 31.  “We believe this settlement is in the best interest of our
employees and the company,” Andre Wyss, president of Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corp., said in the statement. “We have been
litigating this case for nearly six years and the company has
determined that it is time to resolve these wage and hours
claims.”  The settlement resolves wage-and-hour claims brought in
2006, as well as those filed more recently, according to the
statement. Novartis, the No. 2 Swiss drugmaker behind  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , is “confident that sales representatives should
continue to be exempt from overtime,” Wyss said.  High Court Case  Workers settled before the U.S. Supreme Court decides
whether drugmakers must pay overtime to as many as 90,000 sales
representatives. The high court will review a lower court’s
conclusion that salespeople for a  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  unit
aren’t covered by a federal wage-and-hour law. Similar cases are
pending against  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
a unit of Merck & Co. Arguments haven’t been scheduled.  While lawyers for the Novartis workers are confident the
Supreme Court will rule favorably, “the risks of litigation are
great,” David Sanford, the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in the statement.  “It is a fair and equitable result and can serve as an
exemplar for companies around the U.S. that face wage-and-hour
litigation,” said Sanford, of Sanford Wittels & Heisler LLP.  The case is In re Novartis Wage and Hour Litigation, 06-md-
01794, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 