-- Nvidia Falls as Disk Decline Hits Sales: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-25T21:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/nvidia-drops-after-disk-drive-shortage-takes-toll-on-sales-1-.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
processors, fell less than 1 percent after cutting its fourth-
quarter sales projection, saying disk-drive shortages have
crimped orders from personal-computer makers.  The stock  declined  9 cents to $14.85 at the close in  New
York  after a drop earlier today of as much as 5.5 percent. The
shares fell 10 percent last year.  Nvidia follows other PC chipmakers in reporting lower-than-
anticipated sales, hurt by last year’s flooding in  Thailand . The
disaster shut down production of disk drives, leading to a
decline in computer shipments. Increases in drive prices also
prompted some PC makers not to include graphics cards in their
systems, aiming to keep costs down, Nvidia said.  The  Santa Clara , California-based company now expects to
report revenue of $950 million, plus or minus 1 percent,
according a statement yesterday. That compares with Nvidia’s
prediction in November for $1.066 billion, plus or minus 2
percent. Analysts in a  Bloomberg survey  had estimated $1.056
billion on average.  The company, which is trying to branch out into
microprocessors for phones, said its mobile business declined
more rapidly than expected. Customers may have held off on
orders in anticipation of a new version of Nvidia’s Tegra
product, which is coming out this quarter.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , which competes with Nvidia in
the market for chips that provide high-end graphics in desktop
and laptop computers, reported that its graphics business
declined 9.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  AMD Chief Executive Officer Rory Read said the shortages of
disk drives hurt sales of graphics cards in the period and would
continue to limit shipments in the current quarter.  Nvidia plans to report its full fourth-quarter results on
Feb. 15 after the market closes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tom Giles at
   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  