-- To Shop Smart, Patients Need to Know Price of Care: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/to-shop-smart-patients-need-to-know-price-of-care-peter-orszag.html
Over the past few years, the growth
in health-care costs has quietly been  slowing  down. Naturally,
we’d like to make this trend last. That means we’ll need to
avoid betting big on just one strategy.  Last week, the  Congressional Budget Office   reported  that
many Medicare pilot projects that were designed to reduce costs
actually haven’t done so. But the CBO suggested there may be
promise in a “bundled-payment” approach, under which insurers
pay a single comprehensive fee for treating a particular
disease, rather than many fees for specific doctor visits and
therapies. The health-care law includes provisions to expand
bundled payments, and they should be aggressively adopted.  This is exactly how health-care reform should work: We try
various approaches to generate better value from health care,
many of which don’t pan out, and pursue the ones that seem to be
working.  Another initiative, one that’s typically promoted by
conservatives, is increased price transparency. For consumers to
be able to play their role in keeping costs down, they need to
know what those costs are.  Hidden Prices  The prices of many health-care services in the U.S. are
extremely difficult for patients to obtain in advance. For
example, when the Government Accountability Office anonymously
 phoned  doctors’ offices to inquire about the price of diabetes
screening, most could not provide estimates of the associated
lab fees. And when GAO investigators called hospitals to find
out the price of a knee replacement, they got similarly
uninformative responses. One of the more responsive hospitals
said it would take a week to obtain an estimate; most of the
rest seemed even less helpful.  When prices are revealed, typically after the fact, they
often vary widely -- depending on both the provider and the
patient’s insurance plan. In 2009, for instance, the median
charge for coronary-artery bypass surgery in Los Angeles County
ranged from about $130,000 at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center
to about $250,000 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and more than
$300,000 at Garfield Medical Center, according to a California
government website.  It’s worth noting that most studies have found little, if
any, connection between price and quality.  Several efforts are therefore under way to provide more
transparency about health-care prices, with the goal of helping
people become smarter shoppers. The Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services now collect and publish information on prices
for  prescription drugs  (through the Medicare Plan Finder) and
for common  health services  in various areas (through the Health
Care Consumer Initiatives). And more than half of states now have
publicly accessible websites offering health-care price
information.  These efforts have not been overwhelmingly successful.
California’s initiative over the past nine years to require
hospitals to make certain price data available, for example, has
done little to drive patients toward lower-price competitors or
to narrow the price distribution, according to an  analysis  by
the  Congressional Research Service . A similar  effort  to increase
price transparency in  New Hampshire  also had little effect.
Simply posting prices online doesn’t seem to do all that much.  Consumer Approach  In the future, though, health-insurance plans are likely to
shift toward a  defined-contribution  model -- in which the
employee is given a set contribution toward buying an insurance
policy -- and, in that setting, price transparency could become
more effective. After all, when people bear more of the
financial risk associated with their own health care, they are
likely to become more responsive to information about price and
quality.  (A consumer-driven approach, as I have written elsewhere,
is unlikely to play the dominant role in reducing health
expenses, since so much of the total cost of health care is
driven by very expensive cases in which cost sharing is and
should be minimal. But consumers nonetheless have a role to
play.)  In addition, private health-consulting companies have begun
promoting transparency in ways that may work better than the
state government efforts. Castlight Health Inc., for example,
helps employers analyze their payments to providers -- and then
uses that data to offer personalized information to employees
about out-of-pocket prices of health-care services and
procedures. This company also provides information about the
quality of service from individual doctors. The information is
available only to the employee, not to the public.  Castlight’s private, individual approach might help to
soften one of the concerns generally associated with price
transparency -- that it can lead to provider collusion. In
 Denmark , for  instance , when, in the early 1990s, prices of
ready-mix concrete were published, companies found it easier to
collude and prices rose 15 percent to 20 percent.  A 2008 Congressional Budget Office  report , published while
I was director of that agency, noted the same concern for
health-care price transparency: “The markets for some health-
care services are highly concentrated, so increasing
transparency in such markets could lead to higher, rather than
lower, prices because higher prices are easier to maintain when
the prices charged by each provider involved can be observed by
all the others.” The best way to mitigate this concern is
aggressive antitrust oversight. But it would also help to make
prices more transparent to consumers, but not providers.  Regardless of who wins the presidential election, the
coming years will see dramatic fights over health care. Yet
Medicare spending already seems to be slowing, in a manner that
I increasingly doubt is due merely to economic weakness. Let’s
not squander this progress. Providing more price transparency,
through approaches like Castlight’s, should be part of the path
forward.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  