-- Obama Call to Use War Savings on Roads May Fail in Congress
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-01-25T21:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-call-to-spend-iraq-war-savings-on-u-s-roads-may-falter-in-congress.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call to
rebuild U.S. infrastructure with money saved by bringing troops
home may not resolve Congress’s struggles to set aside more
money for roads and bridges, two analysts said.  “I’m not entirely convinced that reallocation of war funds
will necessarily pick up enough momentum to gain traction in
Congress,” Patrick Hughes, an analyst with Washington-based
research firm Height Analytics, said in a telephone interview
yesterday after Obama’s State of the Union address.  Obama is seeking to use half of the savings created by
withdrawing troops from  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  to rebuild U.S.
infrastructure, helping companies ship goods more efficiently,
the White House said in a fact sheet yesterday. The plan would
fix existing roads and invest more in high-speed rail, according
to the fact sheet.  “Take the money we’re no longer spending at war, use half
of it to pay down our debt, and use the rest to do some nation-
building right here at home,” Obama said yesterday. He didn’t
specify how much the government expects to save.  The Highway Trust Fund, which pays for highway, bridge and
mass-transit projects, will run out of money in early 2013,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The U.S. hasn’t
passed new legislation to pay for surface-transportation
projects since 2005. Funding has continued through a series of
extensions since 2009. The current deadline expires March 31.  Cutting Red Tape  Obama also said he plans to issue an executive order that
would reduce regulations that slow down construction projects.
The average U.S. transportation project takes 11 years to
complete, according to the CBO.  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  and  Martin Marietta  Materials Inc.,
the two largest U.S. producers of sand, gravel and crushed
stone, and cement maker  Texas Industries Inc. (TXI)  are among
companies that could benefit if war savings were used to fund a
highway bill, said Keith Johnson, an analyst with Morgan Keegan
& Co. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  “Infrastructure spending could employ a lot of people
quickly, but it’s a matter of getting a bill through Congress,”
Johnson said in a telephone interview. Johnson has a “market
perform” rating on Vulcan and Texas Industries and an
“outperform” on  Martin Marietta. (MLM)   Gasoline Tax  The U.S. needs $2.2 trillion to repair its infrastructure,
according to the American Society of Civil Engineers. Proposals
for new highway bills by House and Senate committees don’t
increase funding beyond the current legislation. Neither
addresses funding for the highway fund’s shortfall.  The federal fuel tax, which finances the Highway Trust
Fund, has been 18.4 cents a gallon since 1993. Obama has opposed
increasing the fuel tax.  In last year’s State of the Union address, Obama outlined a
goal to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail
within 25 years. Obama’s administration has allotted $10.1
billion for high-speed and intercity rail since 2009. Congress
eliminated funding for high-speed rail in the 2012 budget.  The House and Senate committees both seek to expand the
Transportation and Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act to
$1 billion a year from the current $122 million. The program
provides low-interest loans to fund transportation projects.  Mica Proposal  “America needs to rebuild its infrastructure, but I do not
support what appears to be the president’s plan to finance that
effort by downsizing the military,” Representative  John Mica ,
the Florida Republican who is chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Mica’s committee will introduce a proposal for a five-year,
$260 billion surface-transportation bill on Feb. 2, Justin Harclerode, a spokesman, said by phone. Mica said yesterday his
committee’s transportation measure would be partially financed
through increased U.S. energy production.  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, headed
by California democrat  Barbara Boxer , has approved a two-year
plan with funding at current levels. With that version, the
Highway Trust Fund’s projected expenditure would exceed its
incoming revenue by about $12 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  