-- Obama Pushes Proposal to Streamline Refinancing for Homeowners
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-pushes-proposal-to-streamline-refinancing-for-homeowners.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
ask Congress to approve a plan to help homeowners take advantage
of historically low  interest rates  and reduce their monthly
mortgage payments.  The proposal, which is still being finalized, could save
homeowners as much as $3,000 a year, Obama said in his State of
the Union speech to Congress.  “No more red tape. No more runaround from the banks,”
Obama said. “A small fee on the largest financial institutions
will ensure that it won’t add to the deficit, and will give
banks that were rescued by taxpayers a chance to repay a deficit
of trust.”  The program’s costs would be covered by a fee on financial
companies with more than $50 billion in assets, according to two
senior administration officials who briefed reporters on the
program.  The effort targets borrowers who haven’t been able to
refinance despite their good credit history, the officials said.
Borrowers could benefit from  mortgage rates  that have fallen to
historic lows, with the rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage
dropping to 3.88 percent last week, according to  Freddie Mac .  Unlike some existing programs that help delinquent
borrowers modify their loans, the streamlined refinancing
program wouldn’t be limited to loans guaranteed by  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies rescued by the
government during the subprime lending collapse in 2008, said
the officials.  Mosaic of Programs  The proposal, to be released in the coming weeks, is the
latest addition to a mosaic of Obama administration programs
aimed at boosting the housing market, which is entering its
fourth year of weak sales and high foreclosures.  In October, Obama and the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
which oversees Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , expanded a program to
let borrowers refinance regardless of how much their houses have
dropped in value.  An estimated 1.6 million underwater homeowners could be
helped by the change to the Home Affordable Refinance Program,
or HARP, according to an analysis by Mark Zandi, chief economist
for Moody’s Analytics Inc.  Obama has proposed a similar fee on financial institutions
twice in the last two years. Both times the proposal wasn’t
taken up by Congress.  The fee would apply to bank holding companies, thrift
holding companies and broker-dealers with more than $50 billion
in assets, such as Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The administration initially proposed the fee in 2010 to
recoup the costs of the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program, as
required under the law establishing the program. Obama also
included a smaller version of the fee last year in his
budget. That proposal would have raised $30 billion.  In the proposal last year, “covered liabilities” would be
taxed at 7.5 basis points, with more stable sources of capital
taxed at a discounted rate. The fee could be deducted for
corporate income tax purposes.  One basis point is equivalent to 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 