-- Obama Creates Unit With States to Investigate Mortgage Misconduct by Banks
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-25T20:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-will-create-crisis-unit-to-investigate-mortgage-misconduct.html
President  Barack Obama ’s mortgage
investigation unit will probe bank conduct that created the
housing bubble and bust, including the packaging of loans into
securities, the New York Attorney General said.  The president announced the unit in his State of the Union
speech yesterday.  “Our working group is focusing on conduct related to the
pooling and creation of mortgage backed securities, issues
related to conduct that created the crash, not abuses that
happened after the crash,” New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said today in Washington.  Schneiderman will co-chair the unit, which includes
officials from the Justice Department, Securities and Exchange
Commission and  Internal Revenue Service . Obama said in his
speech that the unit “will hold accountable those who broke the
law, speed assistance to homeowners, and help turn the page on
an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.”  State and federal officials have been negotiating with the
five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co . and  Ally
Financial Inc (ALLY) . -- to settle claims they used so-called robo-
signing and faulty documentation to justify foreclosures. All
50 states announced an investigation into the practices in 2010.  The deal with the banks could be worth as much $25 billion
in loan forgiveness, interest rate reductions and other aid for
homeowners, said a person familiar with negotiations who
declined to be identified because the terms weren’t public.  Fraud  Task Force   The joint federal-state mortgage investigative unit will
be part of a task force Obama created in 2009 by executive order
to investigate and prosecute financial fraud cases. The task
force, led by Attorney General Eric Holder, is made up of 20
federal agencies, including the Justice, Treasury, Commerce and
Labor departments, 94 U.S. attorneys and state and local
agencies.  The new unit is an attempt to better coordinate efforts
among the federal and state agencies in the task force,
according to the  Justice Department . Schneiderman said the unit
will also investigate mortgage origination.  Since its formation, the task force has charged more than
1,200 defendants for crimes related to  mortgage fraud , including
schemes that resulted in financial losses to homeowners and
banks, and attempts to illegally obtain government money,
according to the Justice Department.  Foreclosure Talks  Representatives of Democratic attorney general offices met
at a Chicago hotel Jan. 23 to discuss the negotiated terms in
the foreclosure settlement talks with banks and ask questions,
said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller . Miller, who is helping to
lead the negotiations, said after the meeting that an agreement
with the banks was getting closer.  In August, Schneiderman was removed from the executive
committee representing the states in negotiations with the
mortgage servicers. Schneiderman “actively worked to
undermine” the multistate group’s efforts, Miller said in a
statement at the time.  Schneiderman and  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris
have said any settlement shouldn’t protect banks from claims
that haven’t been fully investigated, such as claims stemming
from the packaging of mortgages into securities sold to
investors.  “My concern with that has always been to make sure that
we’re not releasing claims that obviously now are even more
important to me because I’m investigating them,” Schneiderman
said.  ‘Steadfast Commitment’  Schneiderman’s office has been conducting its own
investigation into the mortgage operations of major banks.  “In coordination with our federal partners, our office
will continue its steadfast commitment to holding those
responsible for the economic crisis accountable, providing
meaningful relief for homeowners commensurate with the scale of
the misconduct, and getting our economy moving again,”
Schneiderman said in a statement.  Harris in California, Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto and Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden are also
running mortgage-related investigations. Biden won’t sign on to
the proposed multistate agreement as drafted, Delaware Deputy
Attorney General Ian McConnel said in a Jan. 23 phone interview.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  has sued the
five banks involved in the talks.  Those calling for a full investigation into bank home
lending and the creation and the sale of mortgage-backed
securities include the Campaign for a Fair Settlement, a
coalition of labor unions, consumer advocates and political
activists including MoveOn.org.  The group said in a statement after Obama’s speech that a
full investigation into banks’ role in the financial crisis will
protect taxpayers “by making it much harder for Wall Street
CEOs to again act lawlessly in pursuit of profits at the expense
of regular Americans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Lawrence Roberts  at +1-202-624-1985 or  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  