-- Obama Plans to Propose Corporate Tax System Overhaul Next Month
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-said-to-be-readying-corporate-tax-overhaul-with-2013-budget-release.html
President  Barack Obama  will propose
an overhaul of the U.S. corporate tax system in February, his
economic advisers said.  The proposal will be released at about the same time as the
administration’s fiscal 2013 budget plan, which is scheduled to
be sent to Congress on Feb. 13. The administration isn’t
releasing details of the comprehensive proposal, such as whether
it will include a target for the top corporate  tax rate .  “The president is looking to push forward a discussion on
a broader corporate tax reform,”  Jason Furman , the deputy
director of the National Economic Council, told reporters on a
conference call yesterday. “We’re going to have more discussion
of that broader framework around the time of the budget.”  Obama has said the corporate rate should be lowered from
the current maximum of 35 percent in a way that doesn’t add to
the federal  budget deficit . An overhaul plan probably will
encounter opposition in Congress, where Republicans have said a
rewrite of corporate tax rules should be paired with changes in
the tax system for individuals.  “I don’t think anything is going to happen this session,”
said Neal Weber, a tax partner in the Washington office of
Cherry Bekaert & Holland LLP. “People are going to posture
during the next 10 months through the election.”  Paying for Overhaul  One of the biggest obstacles to a corporate tax overhaul is
how to pay for it. Obama might seek to raise revenue for
lowering the corporate rate by reviving calls to end tax breaks
for oil and gas companies or corporate jets. Republicans have
blocked such moves in Congress.  Any effort to revise corporate tax laws stands to divide
the business community as well. Retail companies, whose assets
are mostly inside the U.S., are more focused on lowering the
corporate rate. Multinational companies with headquarters in the
U.S. are interested in shifting to a territorial tax system, in
which only domestically generated income would be taxed.  Over the past year, the tax-writing House Ways and Means
Committee has heard testimony on these issues from executives
representing companies including the  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Sears
Holding Corp.  Procter & Gamble Co . and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among the
companies that have lobbied Congress to move to a territorial
tax system.  Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, released the first part of his corporate tax
overhaul in October. He said the corporate rate should be
lowered to 25 percent and proposed a territorial system in which
95 percent of profits earned offshore would be exempt from
taxation in the U.S.  ‘More Comprehensive’  The Obama administration announced on Jan. 23 that its
budget proposal would be delayed by a week, to Feb. 13. That led
some tax experts to question whether the administration would
come forward with something significant.  “I think we all thought there was a white paper at
Treasury addressing  tax reform  on a comprehensive basis and that
it was controversial,” said Pam Olson, who leads
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s Washington National Tax Services
practice. “For that reason, we weren’t expecting anything
comprehensive in the budget, but it sounds like we’re going to
get something that’s more comprehensive than the
administration’s previous budgets.”  The Obama administration is pushing tax policies with a
populist tilt as part of an effort to revive Obama’s appeal
among voters. In addition to the comprehensive overhaul
proposal, Obama is backing a measure that would impose a minimum
tax on overseas profits.  He sought support for that proposal during a speech
yesterday at Conveyor Engineering & Manufacturing, a Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, company that makes screw-type conveyors for moving
materials.  “We’ve got to stop rewarding businesses that ship jobs
overseas,” he said. “We need to make it easier for American
businesses to do business here in America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  