-- Obama Pushing Chef Salad for Kids Hands School Districts $3.2 Billion Tab
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-25T18:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-pushes-salad-to-school-kids-at-7-billion-cost-to-states.html
An overhaul of U.S. school meal
standards that replaces breaded patties and canned fruit with
 fresh tomatoes and chef salad  will cost $3.2 billion over five
years, less than half of what was initially proposed by the
Obama administration.  The first major change to school meals in 15 years released
today departs from a 2011 draft by dropping a daily requirement
for meat or a meat alternative with breakfast and requiring more
fruit and food rich in whole grains. Local governments balked at
the initial cost and companies including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ,
maker of Hunt’s tomato products, lobbied to block its limits on
potatoes and tomato paste in pizza.  “As parents, we try to prepare decent meals, limit how
much junk food our kids eat and ensure they have a reasonably
balanced diet,” said first lady  Michelle Obama  in a statement.
“When you’re putting in all that effort, the last thing we want
is for our hard work to be undone each day in the school
cafeteria.”  Municipalities and states may see added costs from buying
more fruit and whole grains and preparing meals. A bill
introduced this month in Arizona would change state law so
schools can drop out of the national lunch program rather than
follow the new rules, which take effect July 1.  “There is no escaping the argument that this is a
healthier menu for kids,”  Arizona  State SenatorRich Crandall,
a Republican representing Mesa, said in a telephone interview.
“The problem is they are mandating these new standards with no
new funding to back it up.”  Higher Reimbursement Rate  Costs will be offset in part by a reimbursement increase of
6 cents for meals -- the first such increase in 30 years, said
 Kevin Concannon , the U.S. agriculture undersecretary for food,
nutrition and consumer services, in a call with reporters.
Higher costs for a la carte items sold in cafeterias also will
boost school revenue, he said.  President  Barack Obama  sought the changes because a third
of U.S. children are overweight or obese, contributing to $3
billion in annual medical costs, according to administration.
The Department of Agriculture is establishing minimum and
maximum calorie levels based on age and reducing the sodium
content in meals. A  draft proposal  from June would have cost
$6.8 billion over five years.  Nutritional Advance  The new standards “are one of the most important advances
in nutrition in decades,” said Margo Wootan, nutrition policy
director at the Washington-based Center for Science in the
Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group. “They’re much
needed, given high  childhood obesity  rates and the poor state of
our children’s diets.”  The rule means children will have twice the amount of
fruits and vegetables on their lunch trays, the center said in a
press release.  The regulations were promoted today by Michelle Obama and
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack at a lunch event with
elementary students in Alexandria, Virginia. School employees
and celebrity cook Rachael Ray served helpings of a meal that
meets the new standards, according to the USDA. Michelle Obama’s
“Let’s Move” campaign seeks to cut childhood obesity.  Under the rule, schools won’t have limits on starchy
vegetables such as potatoes at lunch. They will have to offer
all vegetable types -- including dark greens, red and orange
vegetables, beans and peas -- at lunch during the week.  Whole Grains  After a phase-in period, schools starting in the 2014-2015
term will have to offer only whole-grain rich products. Schools
may also use tofu as an alternative to meat, according to the
rule.  Minimum calories requirements for some age groups will be
reduced by as much as 225 calories per lunch, according to the
rule.  The  American Frozen Food Institute , a McLean, Virginia-
based trade organization that represents 90 percent of U.S.
frozen-food production, praised the rule.  “USDA’s new standards encompass a number of important
changes to school meals, including nearly doubling the amount of
fruits and vegetables served to school children,” the institute
said today in a statement.  Some municipalities have already adjusted school menus in a
bid to reduce obesity in their communities.  New York Obesity  The obesity rate in grade-school children in  New York 
dropped 5.5 percent from 2006 to 2010, as the city started
programs to boost physical activity and encourage healthier
eating habits. City officials attributed the drop seen in the
study of 947,765 students to programs that eliminated deep-fried
food and sugary sodas in cafeteria, limited junk food in fund
raisers and added low-fat milk and salad bars to school menus.  Congress in November halted some of the changes the
administration has sought to mandate nationwide, including
reducing the amount of potatoes and increasing the amount of
tomato paste that qualifies as a vegetable.  The USDA had wanted to change the amount of tomato paste
that earns a vegetable credit from one-eighth of a cup to a half
cup, said Corey Henry, a spokesman for the frozen food trade
group.  “Tomato paste is incredibly nutrient dense, which is why
USDA’s current standard works,” Henry said in an e-mail.  ConAgra, Schwan  ConAgra, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , and Schwan Food Co. were
among companies that had argued against some requirements in the
initial proposal, which would have potentially hurt their
business.  Schwan’s Food Service Inc.  of Marshall,  Minnesota ,
holds 70 percent of the market share on pizza in the $9.5
billion school food-service industry.  U.S. schools served 2.9 billion free lunches as part of the
National School Lunch Program in fiscal 2010, about 500 million
reduced price lunches and 1.8 billion full-price lunches,
according to the draft rule.  The food-service industry was also seeking a more gradual
reduction in sodium than the earlier USDA proposal.  Sixty percent of district-school food-service directors
expected costs to increase and more food to be wasted under the
proposal, according to a 2011 survey by the Washington-based
National Potato Council on the draft proposal.  “Food service directors have been really concerned they’ll
be required to load down the kids plates with fruits and
vegetables they won’t eat, which will increase costs,” Mark Szymanski, spokesman for the  council , which focuses on public
policy and increasing potato consumption, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@vloomberg.net  