-- Obama Answers Bernanke Housing Pleas With Refinancing Proposal: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-01-25T16:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-answers-bernanke-housing-pleas-with-refinancing-proposal-mortgages.html
President  Barack Obama  answered  Ben S. Bernanke ’s appeal for more action to fix the U.S. housing
market that’s restraining the economic recovery by proposing a
plan to help borrowers reduce their monthly  mortgage  payments.  Obama is sending Congress legislation that would allow
homeowners to tap record-low borrowing costs, potentially
boosting housing as he seeks re-election this year. The proposal
could save participants about $3,000 a year, Obama said in his
State of the Union speech to Congress.  Even with  unemployment  at the lowest level since February
2009 and housing sales increasing, homeowners have been blocked
from refinancing by  house prices  that are 32 percent below their
2006 peak and tightened bank lending. While parts of the plan
may face opposition in a divided Congress, and it’s important to
see details, the approach is “a big step forward,” said
Christopher Mayer, a Columbia Business School professor.  “It’s going to help homeowners who are struggling and it’s
likely to be a first step to really opening up the market to
more normal credit standards,” said Mayer, who along with
fellow Columbia professor  Glenn Hubbard  first proposed a mass
refinancing program in 2008.  The proposal follows Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke’s
call for lawmakers and the Obama administration to offer more
aid for housing as the U.S. central bank helps to push down
rates on  30-year loans  to 3.88 percent for homeowners who can
qualify. The Fed, which is holding short-term borrowing costs
near zero and buying government-backed mortgage bonds, said in a
 paper  sent to Congress this month that a previous administration
effort to make  refinancing  easier had failed to go far enough.  ‘No More Runaround’  Last night, Obama promised to eliminate obstacles that
prevented homeowners from  refinancing .  The program will give “every responsible homeowner the
chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgage by
refinancing at historically low  interest rates ,” Obama said.
“No more red tape. No more runaround from the banks.”  Costs would be covered by a fee on financial companies with
more than $50 billion in assets, according to two senior
administration officials who briefed reporters on the plan.
Obama said “a small fee on the largest financial institutions
will ensure that it won’t add to the deficit.”  The initiative will also apply to all borrowers, whether or
not their loans are currently government-backed, with details
still to be worked out, according to the officials, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The plan “sounds close to impossible to get passed,” said
Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW
Group Inc. which oversees $118 billion.  Election Cycle  “The president clearly understands the chances of passage
this year are close to zero because there’s no appetite to
increase the credit risk at the government,” said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at the New York-based research firm Graham
Fisher & Co., in a telephone interview. “Welcome to the
election cycle.”  Obama’s speech came as Republican Presidential candidates
campaign in  Florida  for next week’s primary. The state had the
seventh-highest rate of  foreclosure filings  per household in
2011, at one in 49, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data seller.  Obama also called for the highest U.S. earners to pay at
least 30 percent of their income in taxes, building on his
election-year focus on what he terms economic fairness.  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to grow at a 2.3 percent rate
in 2012, according to the median estimate of 70 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Property Values Slide  Housing’s share of gross domestic product, including
household spending on related services like utilities and rent,
declined to 15 percent in the third quarter from 18.6 percent in
2005, according to the  National Association of Home Builders . An
 S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values in 20 cities dropped
32 percent from its peak in July 2006.  In 2009, Obama created the Home Affordable Refinance
Program, or HARP, for loans guaranteed by government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  with little or no home equity. After
the initiative reached less than a quarter of the 4 to 5 million
homeowners projected by Obama, the president pushed the
companies for adjustments. The resulting changes, including
lower fees and lessened risks for lenders, started last month.  While the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said the changes might double HARP’s
reach, the Fed paper said policy makers should consider
expanding it further.  Trade Off  As many as 2.5 million loans not guaranteed by the two
companies could otherwise be eligible to refinance under the
program, according to the paper. About 11 million U.S.
homeowners owe more than their properties are worth, with
roughly 8.5 million of making their mortgage payments on time,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG research.  The Fed’s paper suggested Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could
provide the new loans, with the trade-off being that they would
be taking on more risk and policy makers could find it harder to
later scale back their roles in the market.  The government may also rely on the  Federal Housing
Administration  to help implement the plan, said Alan Boyce, head
of the George Soros-supported Absalon Project. Boyce has been
advocating for mass refinancing of government-backed loans,
saying it would lower defaults and aid consumers.  While taxpayers should only take on additional credit risk
if they get paid appropriately for doing so, policy makers
should keep in mind that if enough defaults are avoided through
lowered payments, housing could be revived, further limiting the
costs the government is already set to bear, he said.  “That’s the elephant in the room,” Boyce said.  Republican Support  Boyce said he believes Republicans lawmakers may support
Obama’s legislation because their constituents are among those
who would benefit the most.  “Some of them are from  California (MBASCA) ,” which is among the
states that have suffered the most-severe home-price declines
“and they appreciate the issues,” Boyce said in an interview
in  Las Vegas  at the American Securitization Forum’s annual
conference. Boyce is also a former executive at Countrywide
Financial Corp., the top-ranked home lender bought by  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in 2008.  Mayer at Columbia said that more than 10 million borrowers
could be helped if Obama lifts barriers for refinancing
mortgages owned or backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Obama has twice in the past two years proposed fees on
financial institutions similar to the ones he wants to use to
fund his refinancing plan. Both times, the proposal wasn’t taken
up by Congress.  Damage High-Coupon Bonds  If enacted, the effort may damage investors in government-
backed mortgage bonds by more quickly paying off securities with
high coupons and limited  default risk , while aiding holders of
other home-loan securities and banks.  Word that Joan Milligan, a homeowner who has used HARP, was
invited by Obama to the speech, yesterday roiled the market for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities, according to a note to
clients by Bank of America Corp.  Fannie Mae’s 6 percent securities, whose underlying loans’
rates average about 6.5 percent, yesterday trailed similar
Treasuries by 0.1 cent on the dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Government-backed mortgage bonds had outperformed
Treasuries by 0.4 percentage point this month through Jan. 23,
the best excess returns since June, Barclays Capital index data
show.  Prices on Fannie Mae’s 6 percent securities fell 0.1 cent
to about 109.7 cents on the dollar, as of 10:54 a.m. in  New
York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from
110.3 cents on Jan. 10 and is at the lowest level since Dec. 6
based on closing prices.  Reducing Principal  Government-enabled refinancing could boost securities
without government backing tied to so-called Alt-A loans by
between 7 cents and 9 cents on the dollar, according to a Jan.
19 report by Glenn Schultz, head of residential-mortgage bond
research at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s securities unit. Alt-A loans
fall between prime and subprime in terms of expected defaults.  Obama didn’t propose reducing principal on mortgages to aid
borrowers, an initiative backed by Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley, Amherst Securities Group LP
analyst  Laurie Goodman  and  California  Attorney General Kamala
Harris.  The FHFA said this week that principal forgiveness on
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans would cost the companies almost
$100 billion, while Amherst’s Goodman reiterated during the gas
conference her projection that distressed property sales may
swell to 10 million without widespread use of the tactic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  