-- Obama Calls for Wealthy Americans to Pay Higher Taxes to Restore Fairness
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-25T06:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-calls-for-higher-taxes-on-wealthy-to-make-code-fair-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , offering an
election-year prescription to spur the economy, said the
wealthiest Americans should pay more taxes in the name of
fairness, to bring down the deficit and ensure those trying to
make ends meet don’t have to “make up the difference.”  In his State of the Union address last night, Obama called
on Congress to embrace a tax plan named for billionaire Warren Buffett that would require those making $1 million or more pay
at least 30 percent in taxes. With congressional gridlock
heightened by the 2012 election, there is little chance the
proposal will pass.  “You can call this class warfare all you want,” Obama
said in a nationally televised speech before a joint session of
Congress. “But asking a billionaire to pay at least as much as
his secretary in taxes? Most Americans would call that common
sense.”  The president’s 65-minute address was directed at both
voters and Congress. The populist themes -- tax fairness, help
for homeowners, cracking down on U.S. financial crimes and
unfair trade practices in  China  and investigating the lending
practices that preceded the housing crisis -- are those he will
be repeating as he campaigns for a second term.  He invoked the teamwork and selflessness of the U.S. armed
forces to urge lawmakers toward agreement on changing the tax
code for individuals and corporations, promoting energy
development and improving job training and education. Still, he
is unlikely to get any major legislation through Congress before
the November election, which will also decide control of the
House and Senate.  Spending Constraints  He is also constrained on spending for proposals such as
infrastructure projects by efforts to contain the national debt.
Last year’s  deficit  of $1.3 trillion was third-highest as a
share of the economy since 1945.  In the Republican response, Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels ,
who last year decided against a presidential run, said
Democratic “extremism” has stifled domestic energy development
and job growth.  “No feature of the Obama presidency has been sadder than
its constant efforts to divide us, to curry favor with some
Americans by castigating others,” Daniels said.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who is vying with
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney for the lead in the
Republican race, said in an e-mailed statement that Obama
“described his conviction that his big government is built to
last and should be paid for with higher taxes.”  Battleground States  Obama takes his case to voters today, beginning a three-day
trip to election battleground states where he will talk about
his initiatives on manufacturing, energy and education. With the
presidential campaign under way, Obama is drawing contrasts with
the Republican presidential candidates. He is also highlighting
a willingness to confront congressional Republicans who have
stalled his agenda and seek to overturn tougher regulation of
 Wall Street .  While saying he “will work with anyone in this chamber”
to accelerate the economic recovery, “I intend to fight
obstruction with action, and I will oppose any effort to return
to the very same policies that brought on this economic crisis
in the first place.”  Some Republicans said they found things to like in Obama’s
address. Representative Jeff Flake of  Arizona  said he supports
Obama’s call for additional power to consolidate federal
agencies.  “We ought to see what we can give him and if he’s willing
to use it to streamline government, to make it more efficient,
to downsize, then I’m all for it,” Flake said.  Common Ground  Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican, said there are
“four or five things” to like in the speech, including calling
for an overhaul of the corporate  tax code  and tougher
enforcement of international trade rules.  Obama’s call for a minimum tax for million-dollar earners
drew opposition. Portman said that, while he agrees the tax code
should be fair, “It’s not about taxing wealthy people.”  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, rejected
the proposal. “We’re going to increase taxes on people in this
economy?” he asked.  Obama argued that making sure that millionaires pay at
least the same percentage in taxes as middle-income Americans is
part of making sure “everyone gets a fair shot, and everyone
does their fair share.”  “Because of loopholes and shelters in the tax code, a
quarter of all millionaires pay lower tax rates than millions of
middle-class households,” Obama said. “Right now,  Warren
Buffett  pays a lower tax rate than his secretary.”  Buffett Rule  The so-called Buffett rule was inspired by a New York Times
op-ed essay in August in which Buffett said that in 2010 he paid
a lower tax rate -- 17.4 percent -- than “any of the other 20
people in our office.”  Buffett’s secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , looked on from first
lady  Michelle Obama ’s box in the House gallery where she was an
invited guest for the address.  “This is all gamesmanship, but it was very well played,”
said  Charlie Cook , publisher of the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report in  Washington . “Having Warren Buffett’s secretary
sitting there, it did force you to think about it for a second.
This is a big and complicated debate, and it won’t be settled
any time soon.”  Tax fairness has become an election-year issue and Obama is
seeking a contrast to his challengers. Romney yesterday released
his tax returns and they showed he earned $21.6 million in 2010
and paid 13.9 percent in taxes.  The former private-equity executive earned more than half
of his income from  capital gains  and dividends, which are taxed
at a top rate of 15 percent, rather than the 35 percent top rate
for ordinary income.  Bipartisan Seating  Even with the partisan division in Congress, some lawmakers
in the House chamber continued their recently adopted practice
of bipartisan seating to listen to the president’s speech.  In an effort to keep  manufacturing  jobs in the U.S., Obama
proposed ending tax breaks for companies that move their
operations overseas. He said a tax credit should be created for
companies that close operations abroad and bring jobs back home.  “Every multinational company should have to pay a basic
minimum tax,” Obama said. “And every penny should go towards
lowering taxes for companies that choose to stay here and hire
here in America.”  Obama revisited an idea he presented in September to
improve the nation’s infrastructure, except this time he would
use half of the savings from winding down the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  to pay for it. The other half, he said, would be
used to pay down the deficit.  Job Training  Obama also talked about education and job training to make
Americans more competitive and help reduce unemployment. Among
his proposals is a partnership between community colleges and
businesses to train and place 2 million workers.  To promote U.S. energy independence, Obama directed the
government to promote development of natural gas, which he said
will support more than 600,000 jobs by the end of the decade. He
said the administration will create new rules for safe shale gas
development and drilling practices.  The president bookended his remarks by referring to the May
raid that killed al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , a victory that
has helped Obama mute attacks from his opponents on national
security.  “For the first time in two decades, Osama bin Laden is not a
threat to this country,” he said within the first two minutes
of the address, prompting a standing ovation.  Obama closed the address by referring to the day when his
administration’s top officials, including former Secretary of
Defense  Robert Gates , who served in former Republican President
 George W. Bush ’s administration, and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who ran against Obama for the 2008 nomination, huddled
in the White House Situation Room as the Navy SEAL team
conducted the raid that killed bin Laden.  “All that mattered that day was the mission,” Obama said.
“No one thought about politics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  