-- Obama Says State of the Union Is `Strong’ and Race Is On: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-25T14:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-says-state-of-the-union-is-strong-and-presidential-race-is-on-view.html
Osama bin Laden  shouldn’t be the
only man capable of getting Democrats and Republicans to work
together. In so many words, that was the message of President
Barack Obama’s  State of the Union address  last night, and the
point is valid if cliched: A call for bipartisanship, like the
choice of adjective for the state of the union (“strong,” as
usual), is pretty much a requirement for these speeches.  Obama’s 65-minute address began and ended with references
to the U.S. military’s killing of bin Laden. In between was a
grab bag of programs and proposals that would require Congress
and the president to “work together” -- a phrase or variation
thereof that the president used five times. At least he didn’t
pretend this was likely, acknowledging that most Americans
believe “nothing will get done in  Washington  this year, or next
year, or maybe even the year after that, because Washington is
broken.”  Obama’s ideas for fixing Washington aren’t necessarily bad,
such as requiring that all judicial nominees receive an up-or-
down vote in the Senate within 90 days. But they raise a
chicken-egg problem. Congressional reform is necessary to
eliminate congressional gridlock, but congressional gridlock is
what prevents congressional reform. And congressional gridlock
is a function of partisanship as much as process.  This is, the president mentioned in passing last night
without his audience needing a reminder, an election year. So
partisanship isn’t likely to diminish as November approaches.
Factor in Republican control of the House, and Obama’s agenda is
even less relevant than usual.  All the same, it has some items to recommend it. Obama’s
proposal to allow foreign-born entrepreneurs and students to
stay in the U.S., for example, would help the economy.
Comprehensive immigration reform is probably not going to happen
this year, but maybe this piece is feasible. The president also
called for taxing at a minimum rate of 30 percent the people who
make more than $1 million a year. This is the so-called “Buffett
rule,” named for the billionaire investor who pays a lower rate
than his secretary, who just happened to be sitting in the first
lady’s box last night.  Other proposals were disappointing, misguided, or just
plain nonsensical. There was precious little about deficit
reduction in this speech. While calling for  tax reform , the
president also proposed complicating the  tax code  with credits
and incentives for clean energy, tuition, veterans and various
manufacturers (and there may be a few we missed). His rhetoric
about  China  -- he bragged about stopping “a surge in Chinese
tires,” as if it were part of the North Pacific Drift -- was
simplistic and has the whiff of protectionism. After declaiming
the need to rescue the U.S. auto industry, he declared that the
federal government should offer “no bailouts, no handouts.”  Maybe it’s too much to expect a speech like this,
especially in an election year, to be logically coherent or
ideologically consistent. In that case, what such speeches have
to offer is a sense of possibility and, not to put too fine a
point on it, partisanship: The president, it is usually noted at
this point, is both head of state and leader of the party. Obama
is a talented speaker and skillfully alternated between pointed
warnings about class warfare and gauzy calls for shared
responsibility.  Which brings us back to the killing of Osama bin Laden. In
the speech, Obama used the raid to show what U.S. troops could
achieve when they “worked as a team.” Speaking to 535 members of
Congress, he didn’t need to elaborate.  Two points about that. The first is that it is easier for a
president to coordinate foreign policy than domestic, and the
Obama administration has had some notable successes abroad: Not
just the killing of bin Laden, but overseeing the ouster of
 Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya ; managing the international isolation
of  Iran ; ending the U.S. presence in  Iraq ; and, in general,
focusing more attention on  Asia .  The second point, and one to be grateful for, is that there
was only one Osama bin Laden. Americans may have disagreed about
the purpose and prosecution of the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,
but about bin Laden they were as close to unanimous as Americans
get: He was responsible for 9/11.  There is no such consensus about the causes of, or
responsibility for, the  Great Recession (USURTOT) . This partly explains
the political gridlock in Washington, but it also hints at a way
out. Some of Obama’s proposals make sense regardless of where
you assign blame for our current crisis. Others require a more
thorough presentation of the case. A few are nonstarters. This
is the debate Republicans have been having for months, and that
the president joined last night.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 