-- Obama Targets China With Enforcement Group Aimed at Unfair Trade Practices
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-01-25T02:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-vows-to-get-tough-on-trade-enforcement-help-u-s-companies-compete.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to get
tough on unfair trade practices by nations such as China, and
said the U.S. should give aid to help domestic companies
compete.  Obama is creating a new trade enforcement group that would
use investigators and other federal resources to combat unfair
trade practices in nations including China, according to a White
House briefing document released before the State of the Union
speech tonight. Obama also is seeking a program to provide
credit to companies competing against foreign counterparts that
benefit from preferential credit from their governments.  “It’s not fair when foreign manufacturers have a leg up on
ours only because they’re heavily subsidized,” Obama said.  Obama called on Congress to approve tax cuts for U.S.
manufacturers, increased deductions for making products in the
U.S., and financing assistance for new plants, equipment and
training.  Some U.S. industries have complained that the Obama
administration hasn’t done enough to compete with  China , the
world’s second largest economy. The U.S. had a $273 billion
trade  deficit  with China in 2010, with U.S. producers and some
lawmakers complaining that their exports are hurt by China
intentionally keeping its currency undervalued.  SolarWorld AG’s U.S. unit said the solar-energy industry is
being hurt by China’s cash grants, discounts on raw materials,
preferential loans and tax incentives. China also provided $30
billion in credit to its biggest solar manufacturers in 2010,
about 20 times the U.S. effort,  Jonathan Silver , then- executive
director  of the Energy Department’s loan program, told a
congressional panel Sept. 14.  ‘Long Overdue’  “It’s long overdue,”  Scott Paul , the executive director
for the Alliance for American Manufacturing, said today in an
interview. “We have seen 10 years of China gaming the system
and I think the president has a very good record with China.”  China, the second-largest U.S. trading partner, has become
a target of Republican presidential candidates who blame its
policies for higher U.S. unemployment. Republicans are pushing
the administration to label China as a currency manipulator.  Obama has filed five World Trade Organization complaints
since taking office three years ago, compared with the seven
that  George W. Bush  filed from 2001, when China joined the
Geneva-based trade arbiter, and the end of his term in 2009.
Obama imposed duties on Chinese-made tires, which he said has
created more than 1,000 U.S. jobs.  The U.S. has other investigations in progress, and the
Commerce Department said last week it would investigate Chinese
makers of wind towers after the Wind Tower Coalition claimed
China sells renewable-energy equipment in the U.S. below fair
value.  Currency Undervalued  The U.S. Treasury Department said Dec. 27 in its twice-
yearly report on global currencies that China’s yuan is
substantially undervalued and the U.S. will “press for policy
changes that yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.”  “The Obama administration has to be very careful in its
pivot toward  Asia  so as to not be seen as too threatening to
China at the same time as sending a clear message to Beijing
that it will not tolerate provocation in the region,” said
Bryce Wakefield, Asia program associate at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington .  Focusing on trade is part of the president’s initiative to
double U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by 2015, from $1.57
trillion in 2009. He also said he would push for enhanced trade
inspections to stop pirated and counterfeit goods before they
enter the U.S.  “Congress should make sure that no foreign company has an
advantage over American manufacturing when it comes to accessing
finance or new markets like  Russia ,” Obama said. “Our workers
are the most productive on Earth, and if the playing field is
level, I promise you -- America will always win.”  The U.S. had a $47.8 billion trade deficit in November,
with $26.9 billion resulting from Chinese imports. The U.S. aims
to reduce the trade deficit through three new free trade
agreements with  South Korea ,  Colombia , and  Panama  that were
approved in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  