-- Obama Says High-Earners Should Pay at Least 30% of Income as Tax
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-25T03:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-high-earners-should-pay-at-least-30-of-income-as-tax.html
President  Barack Obama  called on
Congress to require the highest U.S. earners to pay at least 30
percent of their income in taxes, building on his election-year
push for what he terms economic fairness.  The president’s proposal in his State of the Union address
tonight would create a minimum tax on income exceeding $1
million. That floor would be established in part by eliminating
high earners’ deductions for mortgage interest, health care,
retirement and child care. Given congressional gridlock, there
is little chance of its enactment this year.  Obama is pressuring Republicans, who have resisted  tax 
increases, on a day that began with Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  releasing  tax returns  showing he paid a
13.9 percent tax rate in 2010 on $21.6 million in income.  “We can either settle for a country where a shrinking
number of people do really well, while a growing number of
Americans barely get by,” Obama said in his address to a joint
session of Congress. “Or we can restore an economy where
everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share and
everyone plays by the same set of rules.”  Congressional Republicans repeatedly blocked efforts over
the past year to impose a surtax on income exceeding $1 million
to pay for an extension of a  payroll  tax cut.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  ignited the focus on
the tax treatment of millionaires when he said in August that
his $6.9 million tax bill in 2010 was 17.4 percent of his total
taxable income that year.  10 Percent to 35 Percent  Marginal tax rates range from 10 percent to 35 percent.
High earners can drive their rates down if they make large
charitable contributions, which can be deducted, or receive much
of their income from investments, which are taxed at a
preferential rate compared with wages.  Buffett said his tax rate was lower than that for his
secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , who watched the speech from the
spectators gallery in the U.S. House of Representatives.  “ Tax reform  should follow the Buffett rule,” Obama
said. “If you make more than $1 million a year, you should not
pay less than 30 percent in taxes.”  Curbing deductions alone wouldn’t be enough to create a
minimum 30 percent tax for the highest earners because many top
earners benefit from the preferential tax rate for investment
income. For example, Romney reported $4.5 million in itemized
deductions in 2010 while more than half of his income came from
 capital gains , which is taxed at a 15 percent rate instead of
the rate for ordinary income.  Alternative Minimum Tax  Instead of raising taxes on investment income, the Obama
proposal would create a new 30 percent alternative minimum tax
for high earners, said an administration official at a White
House briefing prior to the speech. The official wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  The emphasis on high earners is a departure from Obama’s
previous State of the Union address, when he called on lawmakers
to work together to cut the corporate tax rate for the first
time since 1986 without adding to the deficit. His speech also
called for tax incentives for companies that “bring jobs home.”  With lawmakers unable to agree on basic policy questions,
such as whether a  tax cut  should be paid for, the chances of an
agreement on such comprehensive tax code changes before the
election are dim, said Brian Gardner, the senior vice president
for Washington research at KBW Inc.  “We’re in an environment of hyper-gridlock,” Gardner
said. “The president can propose whatever he wants but I don’t
see Republicans signing onto anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  