-- Obama Pushes Natural-Gas Fracking to Create 600,000 U.S. Jobs
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-25T18:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-backs-fracking-to-create-600-000-jobs-vows-safe-drilling.html
President  Barack Obama  pushed
drilling for gas in shale rock and support for cleaner energy
sources to boost the economy in his final State of the Union
address before facing U.S. voters in November.  Hydraulic fracturing, the process of injecting water, sand
and chemicals underground to free gas trapped in rock, could
create more than 600,000 jobs by the end of the decade, Obama
said yesterday. The process, called fracking, is among a list of
energy policies Obama said would fuel economic growth.  “We have a supply of natural gas that can last America
nearly 100 years, and my administration will take every possible
action to safely develop this energy,” Obama said.  Obama reiterated support for conservation and cleaner
sources of power and pledged more oil drilling as part of an
‘all-out, all-of-the-above’’ policy “that’s cleaner, cheaper,
and full of new jobs.” He said domestic energy production is at
an eight-year high and imports of foreign oil were declining,
prompting criticism from Republicans.  “It’s just a blind accident, if in fact we are producing
more oil or natural gas than in previous years, because it’s not
because of any of his efforts,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican and head of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said after the speech.  Republicans also sought to contrast Obama’s pledge to use
energy policy to create jobs with his denial of a permit to
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline to connect  Canada ’s oil
sands to refineries on the  Gulf coast .  Republicans, Keystone  Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , delivering the Republican
response to a nationwide television audience, called Keystone a
“perfectly safe pipeline that would employ tens of thousands”
and said that Obama has sought to stifle energy production in
the U.S.  Keystone would “have done more than any other project to
increase our  energy security  and revive our economy,” Senator
 James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, said in a statement after
the speech.  Obama announced incentives to make industries more energy
efficient, and again urged Congress to require that a larger
percentage of the nation’s power come from low-pollution
sources.  He directed his administration to open up more than 75
percent of potential offshore oil and gas resources for
production.  Eight-Year High  “Right now, American oil production is the highest that
it’s been in eight years,” Obama said. “Not only that - last
year, we relied less on foreign oil than in any of the past 16
years.”  U.S. natural-gas production averaged 1.89 trillion cubic
feet a month through October, 13 percent higher than the average
during President  George W. Bush ’s two terms, according to Energy
Department data. Crude oil production is 2 percent higher, the
department said.  While the U.S. has abundant natural-gas resources, it lacks
regulations that would ensure safe production,  Frances Beinecke ,
president of the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council, told reporters in  Washington  today. She said the group
“will be as aggressive as it can be” to close that gap.  Obama said the drive for new drilling would be accompanied
by regulations to ensure safe drilling practices. Those would
include a requirement that companies operating on public lands
disclose the chemicals used in the fracking fluid.  ‘Tip of Iceberg’  “That’s very, very important, but that’s only the tip of
the iceberg,” Beinecke said. “There are huge air quality
impacts. These huge industrial operations are coming to small
towns.”  As Obama backed more domestic oil and gas production, he
also pledged support for renewable sources of power, urging
Congress to pass clean energy tax credits and a mandate for more
electricity to come for cleaner sources of power.  An energy efficiency initiative he’s backing would cut $100
billion from the nation’s energy bills, he said. Obama also
pledged that the Defense Department would make the largest
renewable energy purchases in history.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said in a
statement that the priorities Obama laid out were a “very good
blueprint for how we can accelerate economic growth in our
country.”  ‘A Path’  Dave Foster, executive director of the BlueGreen Alliance,
a group that represents labor and environmental groups, said in
an interview that Obama was “showing us a path” to how clean
energy can increase manufacturing jobs.  Obama also repeated his call from last year to repeal tax
credits for the oil and gas industry. That effort failed to win
broad support in Congress, after producers said the measures
would push more production and jobs outside the U.S.  “Advocating greater energy production but penalizing those
who provide that energy is not a sound  energy policy , but a
contradiction,”  Jack Gerard , chief executive officer of the
 American Petroleum Institute , said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  