-- Obama Casts Election as Fight to Rescue Economy From Wealth Gap
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-25T06:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-casts-election-as-fight-to-rescue-economy-from-widening-wealth-gap.html
President  Barack Obama  cast himself
as the vessel of fairness in an age of anger, saying he would be
the bulwark against a growing wealth gap and Republican policies
that he said would widen the disparity.  Burdened by a slow recovery, Obama framed his re-election
bid in last night’s State of the Union address by portraying his
economic policies as a foundation for growth and opportunity.  “We can either settle for a country where a shrinking
number of people do really well, while a growing number of
Americans barely get by,” Obama said. “Or we can restore an
economy where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their
fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.”  He made the appeal against the backdrop of a struggling
economy that has left many voters unforgiving. While trending
downward, the  unemployment rate  stood at 8.5 percent in
December, compared with 7.8 percent when he took office.  His words hearken back to those his  Democratic Party 
employed over the decades to win over middle-class voters. He
put the criticism of  income inequality  that has energized Occupy
Wall Street protesters and party activists into the political
language of fairness that runs back to Republican President
 Theodore Roosevelt ’s “Square Deal” and Democrat Franklin Roosevelt’s “New Deal.”  Obama coupled that with a demand that the wealthy pay more
in income taxes, calling for a minimum rate of 30 percent for
those with incomes of $1 million or more a year. He has dubbed
the idea of such a tax “the Buffett Rule,” based on
billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s observation that he pays a lower
rate than his secretary. Obama underscored the point by seating
Buffett’s secretary in the gallery of the U.S. House chamber.  Romney’s Returns  Obama offered his tax proposal hours after one of the
leading Republican presidential candidates, former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, disclosed that he paid an effective rate
of 13.9 percent on his 2010 income of $21.6 million, largely
because of preferential tax treatment for investment proceeds.
Obama didn’t refer to Romney in his remarks.  While the speech was full of specific proposals -- on
bolstering education, shoring up the nation’s infrastructure,
promoting manufacturing and clean energy -- few are likely to
pass a Congress in which Republicans control the House and hold
power to stop legislation in the Senate. Partisan gridlock has
stymied most of the president’s agenda for the last year.  Yet the State of the Union message for presidents facing
re-election typically functions more as a preview of campaign
themes than as a legislative program, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Annenberg School for Communication in Philadelphia.  ‘Largest Audience’  In an election year, the address “performs a different
function,” Jamieson said. “It’s the largest audience a
president is going to reach, unless there’s a crisis speech,
until the nomination acceptance speech.”  In Obama’s case, he amplified a theme set in Dec. 6 remarks
that he delivered in Osawatomie,  Kansas , saying the nation is at
“a make-or-break moment for the middle class.”  That moment comes with the economy regaining fewer than 2.7
million of the 8.7 million  jobs lost  since the recession began
in December 2007. More than 22 percent of U.S. homeowners owed
more on their mortgage at the end of the third quarter of last
year than the property was worth, according to CoreLogic Inc.  Obama’s job-approval rating of 44 percent on a Gallup
tracking poll for Jan. 21-23 is below the 50 percent threshold
incumbents usually seek going into an election.  Holding Down Losses  If he’s to be re-elected, he must hold down his losses
among white working-class voters. Obama’s Democratic allies
surrendered control of the House in the 2010 midterm elections
with a 30-percentage-point loss among white working-class
voters, defined as those without college degrees. Obama won in
2008 by keeping the party’s losses among that group to 18 points
and winning among minority groups and college-educated whites.  Romney, a former private-equity executive, has attacked
Obama’s competence as an economic manager and assailed him for
practicing the “politics of envy.” Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , another Republican presidential candidate, has accused
Obama of promoting dependency over work and dubbed him “the
food-stamp president.”  Obama offered the country a reminder of the scale of the
economic calamity he inherited as he took office months after
the September 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers  and an ensuing
financial crisis. He described the economy under his Republican
predecessor as “a house of cards.”  No Return  “I will oppose any effort to return to the very same
policies that brought on this economic crisis in the first
place,” Obama said.  Instead, he reached for a slogan once used to sell trucks
by General Motors, a company that benefited from his 2009
automobile industry bailout, promising an economy “built to
last.”  The phrase, which the White House quickly moved to
reinforce with handouts on its economic proposals entitled “An
America Built to Last,” offers “implicit indictments” against
Republican rivals and his predecessor, Jamieson said.  “Built to last positions them against  Mitt Romney ,”
Jamieson said. It sets up a contrast with criticism of some of
the leveraged buyouts Romney presided over while at Bain Capital
LLC, and “it’s an attack on the MBA mentality where you seek
short-term gains,” she said.  It also invites comparison with Gingrich’s speakership,
which unraveled within four years amid dissent from within his
own party, she said.  Battleground States  For voters in potential Great Lakes battleground states
such as  Ohio ,  Michigan ,  Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin  with ties to
the  auto industry  and its suppliers, the origin of the slogan
serves as a reminder of Obama’s rescue of the carmakers, which
his Republican challengers opposed.  The president begins the election year with an economy that
has rebounded from fears of a double-dip recession just a few
months ago. Growth is accelerating, with the median forecast
anticipating a 3.1 percent rise in gross domestic product in the
final quarter of 2011, up from 1.8 percent the previous quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Still, more than two years after the recession ended, the
recovery remains fragile and vulnerable to a shock such as the
European debt crisis. Economic conditions when voters go to the
polls in November may depend as much on what happens in Berlin
and Paris as in  Washington .  Helping Homeowners  Obama’s offer of help to “millions of innocent Americans
who’ve seen their home values decline” could resonate in states
that have been hard hit by the collapse in real estate prices.  Nevada  had the highest portion of homeowners with
“underwater” mortgages at 58 percent of all mortgaged
properties, followed by  Arizona  at 47 percent,  Florida  at 44
percent and Michigan at 35 percent, according to CoreLogic data
for the third quarter.  Obama said he would send Congress a plan “that gives every
responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on
their mortgage by refinancing at historically low rates.”  He also spoke to the aspirations of many Hispanics, an
expanding population that he carried with 67 percent support in
2008, according to exit polls.  He called on Congress to pass legislation that would allow
illegal immigrants who came to the country as children to become
citizens if they graduate college or serve honorably in the
military.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 