-- Obama Defends Bailouts, Handouts and Cop-Outs: Steven Greenhut
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-01-25T16:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-defends-bailouts-handouts-cop-outs-commentary-by-steven-greenhut.html
State of the Union addresses provide
insight into the vision of America embraced by the president,
and in that regard Tuesday’s address by President  Barack Obama 
didn’t disappoint.  He  envisions  a country where the federal government
protects and creates union jobs and where the public sector is
leading the charge to create a better America. “Think about the
America within our reach: A country that leads the world in
educating its people,” the president said. “An America that
attracts a new generation of high-tech manufacturing and high-
paying jobs.”  This is standard  State of the Union  boilerplate, but then
the president ticked off many ways the federal government will
accomplish this -- through programs to retrain employees,
subsidies to the green and automotive industries, grand
infrastructure-building programs and through a new federally
directed “blueprint” to rebuild the manufacturing industries. He
said the federal government’s bailout of General Motors Co. and
Chrysler was the key to saving the  auto industry . In his view,
the feds demanded responsibility in exchange for aid, which
resulted in a new era of harmonious relations between workers
and management.  But as Investor’s Business Daily reported, “Obama broke
normal bankruptcy procedure when he bailed out GM so his union
pals could get special treatment.” Perhaps the speech should be
called the State of the Unions, given that Obama’s policies seem
designed mainly to protect union workers from reform.  President’s Speech  “It’s time to apply the same rules from top to bottom: No
bailouts, no handouts and no cop-outs. An America built to last
insists on responsibility from everybody,” the president said,
even as he defended such bailouts, handouts and copouts.  He called for a new era of responsibility, yet his aid
packages have promoted irresponsibility, as local officials vie
for added federal dollars rather than make the hard choices
necessary to deal with their debt burdens. The president spoke
about underpaid public servants, referring to teachers in
particular, but here in  California  it has been the unsustainable
growth in public-sector compensation that most threatens the
government programs and infrastructure-building efforts the
president says are so necessary to saving our nation.  The president sees a starving public sector unable to
adequately meet the needs of the public, a world where heroic
teachers must dig deeply into their own pockets to pay for
school supplies. But public schools are short on cash not
because of a lack of taxpayer support, but because of
misdirected priorities driven by a lack of competition,
bureaucratic inertia and union demands.  Obama said we should stop “bashing teachers,” which was a
not-so-fair shot directed presumably at Republicans who have
battled with those teachers’ unions that are the main obstacle
to educational reform. “Of course, it’s not enough for us to
increase student aid,” the president added. He said that if
colleges can’t stop tuition from going up, then funding will go
down. He also called on states to make “higher education a
higher priority in their budgets.”  The president has it backward. Tuition keeps increasing
because  government aid  keeps increasing. Free money keeps
educational institutions from making tough choices and using
their funds wisely. His misunderstanding of how Other People’s
Money drives spending epitomizes the basic misunderstanding at
the foundation of his speech and his administration. His point
about state education priorities is off the mark.  California Schools  In California, education is guaranteed by constitutional
amendment to receive at least 40 percent of the general-fund
budget. Yet the system is a mess, and some of the highest-funded
districts are the ones most plagued by corruption and
incompetence. Obama should talk to the Democratic mayor of  Los
Angeles  or a former Democratic state senator who leads an
education-reform group about obstacles to reform, which revolve
around union intransigence and bureaucracy more than funding.  Here in California the lush pay and benefit packages that
many local officials have secured over the past decade are
putting cities deeply in the hole, with compensation to police
and firefighters often consuming 70 percent to 80 percent of
their budgets. One liberal editorial page quipped that public
agencies are becoming pension providers that offer public
services on the side.  This threat is not just financial. San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed, a Democrat, told  Vanity Fair  that “Our police and
firefighters will earn more in retirement than they did when
they were working.” He continued, “It’s staggering. When did we
go from giving people sick leave to letting them accumulate it
and cash it in for hundreds of thousands of dollars when they
are done working? There’s a corruption here. It’s not just a
financial corruption. It’s a corruption of the attitude of
public service.”  The president railed against inequality, but doesn’t
mention the growing retirement chasm between workers in the
public and private sectors. He criticized “bad debt and phony
financial profits” but wasn’t speaking of the multibillion-
dollar government pension debt or the phony rate-of-return
projections used by pension funds to mask the growing debt
burden.  The president’s reference to greed applied solely to a
financial sector that did what its Washington regulators
insisted it do: provide home loans to people who couldn’t afford
them. I’m assuming his new “Financial Crimes Unit” will spare
investigations of the legislators who crafted those rules. And
yet the president also said that “responsible homeowners
shouldn’t have to sit and wait for the housing market to hit
bottom to get some relief.”  The president is right that it’s time for an economy based
on responsibility, but he’s wrong to believe we’ll ever achieve
that as long as his administration promotes more bailouts and
protects the public sector from accountability.  (Steven Greenhut is editor in chief of CalWatchdog.com and
a Sacramento-based newspaper columnist. In February, he is
joining the Franklin Center as vice president of journalism. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut at  SGreenhut@pacificresearch.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 