-- Obama Orders Strategy for Protecting Nation’s Supply Chain
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-25T17:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-orders-strategy-for-protecting-nation-s-supply-chain.html
President  Barack Obama  is directing
the Departments of State and  Homeland Security  to develop a plan
to protect the $14.6 trillion  U.S. economy  from interruptions in
the international supply chain.  The White House released today a National Strategy for
Global Supply Chain Security that gives officials from those
departments six months to make recommendations on how to spot
risks and make commercial infrastructure more resilient.  “Disruptions to supply chains caused by natural disasters
-- earthquakes, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions -- and from
criminal and terrorist networks seeking to exploit the system or
use it as a means of attack can adversely impact global economic
growth and productivity,” Obama said in a letter dated Jan. 23
and released by the White House today.  “As a nation, we must address the challenges posed by
these threats and strengthen our national and international
policies accordingly,” he said in the letter.  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 threatened or disrupted the U.S.
oil and refining industry. The 2010 eruption of the
Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Iceland led to flight cancellations
on almost a global scale. The Japan earthquake and tsunami last
year interrupted imports and exports and hurt the U.S. auto and
other industries, costing jobs.  Terror Threat  Terrorist attacks such as those on Sept. 11 or localized
disruptions, such as recent plots involving air cargo shipments
filled with explosives shipped via  Europe  and the  Middle East  to
the U.S., may similarly hurt the U.S. or global economy.  “We must continue to strengthen global supply chains to
ensure that they operate effectively in time of crisis, recover
quickly from disruptions and facilitate international trade and
travel,”  Janet Napolitano , secretary of Homeland Security, said
at a briefing in Davos,  Switzerland , where she is attending the
 World Economic Forum .  The document released by the White House makes no direct
reference to strengthened cybersecurity, though it cites as one
of its source documents the International Strategy for
Cyberspace released in May.  Hackers might disrupt the global supply chain by attacking
 computer networks  used by banks, phone companies, railroads and
airlines. U.S. lawmakers are working on legislation aimed at
strengthening cybersecurity at companies that operate
infrastructure considered vital to the economy.  Cartridge Bombs  In 2010, the U.S. tightened security procedures for cargo
on passenger aircraft after bombs were found in printer
cartridges that originated in  Yemen .  The new rules include barring “high risk cargo” -- which
the U.S. didn’t define publicly -- from passenger planes bound
to the U.S. and prohibiting ink cartridges weighing more than a
pound (0.45 kilogram) in carry-on and checked baggage. The bombs
were found in Dubai and the U.K.  Even so, many countries have differing standards of a so-
called “trusted shipper,” Napolitano said.  “If we’re able to agree internationally on standard that
protect our security interest and make it easier for companies
to move commerce around the globe, then that’s where our
business and economic interests coincide.”  Conversion to a single standard may raise costs and “we
need to look at costs and benefits,” she said. Still, “many of
the costs have already been absorbed.”  Obama directed department officials to confer with state,
federal and international government agencies and private
industry to identify areas that are most at risk and come up
with layered defenses and tightened security steps to guard
against disruptions, the strategy says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  