-- Obama Promotes Breaks for Manufacturers Keeping Jobs in U.S.
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-26T00:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/obama-promotes-breaks-for-manufacturers-keeping-jobs-in-u-s-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said
manufacturers must be rewarded for bringing jobs back to the
U.S. from overseas and expanding at home to set a foundation for
job creation and growth.  Following up on last night’s State of the Union speech,
Obama today expanded on his proposals for encouraging
manufacturing and energy production. He said the actions his
administration already has taken are helping the U.S. recover
from the recession.  “Today, three years after the worst economic storm in
three generations, we are making progress,” Obama said in Cedar
Rapids,  Iowa .  He spoke at Conveyor Engineering & Manufacturing, which
makes screw-type conveyors for moving materials such as feed,
grain and chemicals for farming and processing facilities and
which Obama said represents the kind of home-grown industry the
U.S. must encourage.  Accelerating the recovery and trimming the jobless rate,
which was 8.5 percent in December, will be crucial to Obama’s
chances of winning a second term in November. The two leading
candidates for the Republican nomination,  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  are making criticism of Obama’s stewardship of the
economy a focus of their stump speeches.  Engine of Growth  Manufacturing has been an engine of growth for the U.S.
Output climbed 0.9 percent last month, the biggest gain since
December 2010, according to Federal Reserve data. U.S.
manufacturers have added more than 300,000 jobs since December
2009, the White House said in a fact sheet, growing for the
first time since the late 1990s.  The manufacturing measures are part of what Obama called a
“blueprint for an economy that’s built to last.” It was part
of a list of initiatives the president laid out in his address
that included expanding domestic energy production, bolstering
job training, aiding homeowners with underwater mortgages and
streamlining government operations.  Manufacturing was highlighted by Obama at a stop later in
the day in Chandler,  Arizona , about 20 miles (32 kilometers)
southeast of Phoenix, where  Intel Corp. (INTC)  has a manufacturing
plant. The world’s largest chipmaker says the facility employs
9,700 people and is building another $5 billion microprocessor
plant.  Minimum Tax  To give companies an incentive to create manufacturing jobs
in the U.S., the president proposes to require that companies
pay a minimum tax for profit earned overseas, a step that may
offset the lure of low tax rates offered by some foreign
countries.  Companies would be banned from taking a deduction on taxes
and would be offered a 20 percent tax credit, an amount
subtracted directly from taxes owed, if they brought jobs home,
according to the administration’s fact sheet.  Obama also is proposing $6 billion in new credits over
three years for companies that invest in facilities or
production in communities that has had major job losses.  He also again is calling for reauthorizing a measure that
lets businesses expense the full cost of investments in
equipment and making permanent a research and experimentation
tax credit.  The details of the plan will be included in the fiscal 2013
budget Obama sends to Congress on Feb. 13.  Buffett Rule  The president repeated his State of the Union message on
taxes, saying that those who make $1 million or more a year
should pay at least a 30 percent rate.  Obama said unfairness in the  tax code  is symbolized by
 Warren Buffett ’s secretary, who pays a higher effective tax rate
than her billionaire boss. Buffett’s secretary,  Debbie Bosanek ,
watched the State of the Union address as a guest first lady
 Michelle Obama  in the House gallery.  “Does that make any sense?” Obama said in Iowa. “Do we
want to keep these tax cuts for folks like me who don’t need
them?”  The minimum tax rate, known as the Buffett rule, was
inspired by a New York Times op-ed essay in August in which the
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. wrote that in 2010 he paid a
lower tax rate -- 17.4 percent -- than “any of the other 20
people in our office.”  Obama plans stops this week in Colorado and  Nevada  to talk
about energy and  Michigan  to discuss education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Cedar Rapids , Iowa at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  