-- Lockheed F-35 Said to Be Cut by 13 Planes in Pentagon’s Budget
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/lockheed-f-35-said-to-be-cut-by-13-planes-in-pentagon-s-plan.html
The Pentagon will propose spending
about $9.2 billion to buy 29  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jets in
its fiscal 2013 budget, 13 fewer than previously planned, U.S.
officials said.  The reduction is part of a decision to delay purchasing 179
of the Joint Strike Fighters beyond 2017 to continue
development, testing and correction of deficiencies, according
to the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity yesterday
in advance of a Defense Department announcement.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is scheduled to outline the
Department of Defense budget proposal today at the Pentagon,
part of an effort to cut $488 billion, or 8.5 percent, from
$5.62 trillion in spending that had been planned for 2012-2021.  Beyond the next budget year, the Pentagon’s previous plan
to purchase 62 F-35s in fiscal 2014 is being reduced to 29,
according to budget data. The request for 2015 is dropping to 44
from 81, and the planned purchase for 2016 will decline to 61
from 108.  The delay marks the third consecutive year the Pentagon has
reduced its annual requests for F-35s in the $382 billion
program. The number of planes sought was cut by 122 in February
2010 and 124 last year. Even with the latest cuts, Panetta still
plans the eventual purchase of 2,443 production aircraft,
according to the officials.  While Lockheed Martin won’t “speculate on what Secretary
Panetta will announce,” the company understands “the challenge
our customers face in balancing national security priorities
with the fiscal reality,” Jennifer Whitlow, a spokeswoman for
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, said in an e-mail.  Working Closely  “We will continue to work closely with the DoD to
implement any changes to the F-35 production plan” as cost-
effectively as possible, she said.  Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense company, fell
51 cents to $81.73 yesterday in New York trading and has risen
3.4 percent in the past year.  “My department is committed to the development of the
F-35,” Panetta said during a Jan. 20 visit to the F-35 test
facility at Naval Air Station Patuxent in  Maryland . He said the
aircraft is “absolutely vital to maintaining our air
superiority.”  The F-35 delays are consistent with the Nov. 29 conclusions
of a team of defense test, systems engineering and structural
experts. It said Pentagon officials should give “serious
reconsideration” to the purchase rate because the aircraft’s
basic design has proved more unstable during testing than
anticipated.  ‘Lack of Confidence’  The group identified 13 current or likely test issues of
varying severity, which together result “in a lack of
confidence” in the aircraft’s “design stability.” The issues
include the Navy version’s tailhook for carrier landings, the
system for dumping extra fuel on landing approach and excessive
aircraft shaking during flight.  The instability has already resulted in more retrofits and
changes than planned with “the most challenging portions of
flight tests ahead,” according to the 20-page  report  prepared
for acting Pentagon weapons buyer Frank Kendall. A stable
aircraft design is less likely to require costly changes as test
issues emerge.  Still, the team said that it found “no fundamental design
risks sufficient to preclude further production” of aircraft
for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  Tester View  Separately, the Pentagon’s top weapons program found this
month the F-35 had “mixed results” in tests last year of its
flight characteristics and combat systems.  Director of Operation Test and Evaluation Michael Gilmore
wrote in his annual  report  that the three aircraft versions
matched or exceeded the program’s restructured plan for tests
designed to evaluate flying qualities.  Flights designed to accomplish discrete events to
demonstrate the aircraft’s war-fighting systems, such as
navigation, enemy identification and targeting, fell behind 11
percent for the  Air Force  and 9 percent for the Marine Corps
versions. The Navy’s aircraft-carrier version is 32 percent
ahead of schedule, according to the report.  “Development, integration and flight testing of the most
complex elements of mission systems lie ahead,” Gilmore wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  