-- OECD’s Gurria Says ECB Should Accept Losses on its Greek Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-01-25T15:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/oecd-s-gurria-says-ecb-should-accept-losses-on-its-greek-bonds.html
Angel Gurria , secretary general of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said
the  European Central Bank  should accept losses on its portfolio
of Greek bonds to help the euro-area nation.  “I think it’s a good idea,” Gurria said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan today in Davos,
Switzerland. “We always proposed this should be done and it
will also help create an atmosphere of equal treatment. The ECB
bought these bonds at a discount and I think at least this
discount could be accrued in favor of  Greece .”  The ECB is opposed to joining private-sector investors in
accepting losses on Greek debt on concern this would damage
confidence in the institution, two people familiar with the
Governing Council’s stance said. Institute of International
Finance Managing Director  Charles Dallara , who’s negotiating on
behalf of bondholders on a Greek debt deal, said yesterday that
all parties should contribute to cutting Greece’s debt.  Dallara will return to  Athens  tomorrow to resume talks with
the Greek government on the bond swap. Gurria said the parties
“need to close the deal.”  “Every day that passes, the possibility of contagion
increases,” Gurria said. “We’ve seen the consequences of
contagion in financial markets.”  Bond Payment  European officials and Greece’s private bondholders agreed
in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of
more than 200 billion euros ($259 billion) of debt by
voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new securities. The
accord is tied to a second financing package for the cash-
strapped country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment
on March 20.  “The question is not whether the payment will be made or
not, but whether it’s paid at 50 percent or not be made at
all,” Gurria said. “That would be disruptive if there is no
deal, no arrangement. There is time. Let’s use the next few
days.”  Germany  signaled earlier this week that it might back an
increase in the region’s overall rescue capacity to 750 billion
euros from July when the temporary fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, runs in parallel with the permanent fund.  Gurria today said that  Europe  should boost the rescue
capacity to 1 trillion euros.  “After Greece, we still have to deal with the question of
the firewall, and the firewall has to be big enough in order to
be credible,” Gurria said. “It’s like a vaccine, it’s against
the contagion, and if it’s big enough, maybe you don’t even have
to use it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Davos,  Switzerland  
at  cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  