-- Mohegan Seeks Refinancing With $1.1 Billion Exchange Offer
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-01-25T17:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/mohegan-seeks-1-1-billion-bond-exchange-to-refinance-debt-due-in-march.html
Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, the
operator of Mohegan Sun casinos in  Connecticut  and  Pennsylvania ,
is asking bondholders to refinance as much as $1.1 billion of
bonds in an exchange offer as part of a deal to restructure a
bank credit line maturing in March.  The new notes, most of which will have higher coupons, will
have the same principal amount as the prior issues and will
remove “substantially” all restrictive covenants, Uncasville,
Connecticut-based Mohegan said in a statement yesterday. The
casino operator also is seeking to reduce the size of its
revolving  bank loan  due March 9 by $200 million to $475 million
and extend the facility’s maturity date to March 2015. That deal
hinges on completion of the bond exchanges.  The casino operator is overhauling its  capital structure 
after it warned that its failure to refinance debt last year
raised “substantial doubt” about its ability to continue,
according to a Dec. 29 regulatory filing. Mohegan had total debt
including capital leases on Sept. 30 of $1.64 billion, with a
$21 million interest payment coming due on Feb. 15 on $250
million of 8 percent bonds maturing in April.  Mohegan also will offer $225 million in new first-lien debt
in a private placement. The proceeds will be used to repay a
portion of the authority’s credit facility and cover other
costs, according to the statement.  The casino operator said the debt exchanges are supported
by a group of investors holding about $598 million of the bonds
who agreed to tender the notes and not withdraw them. The
exchange offers and consent solicitations expire Feb. 22, with
investors that tender by Feb. 6 receiving cash consent payments.  Recession, Competition Pressure  Mohegan and Foxwoods Resort Casino, which is owned by the
Mashantucket Western Pequot Tribal Nation in Connecticut, were
squeezed by the 18-month recession that ended in 2009 and face
competition from neighboring states as casino gambling expands.
Aqueduct casino in Queens, New York, and Revel casino in
Atlantic City,  New Jersey , have recently opened, and
 Massachusetts  approved gaming in the state last year.  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA) ,  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  and Hard
Rock International are among companies competing with Mohegan
for a gaming license in Western Massachusetts, according to a
Jan. 4 JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.  Mohegan “has entered into a lease agreement for a 152-
acre site located in Palmer, Massachusetts, which would serve as
a potential site for gaming development,” the company said in
its annual report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on Dec. 29.  Mohegan is concerned with keeping bondholders content as it
plans to expand into Massachusetts in mid-2014,  Barbara Cappaert , an analyst at KDP Investment Advisors Inc. said in a
telephone interview this month. State gaming commissions look
closely at the treatment of creditors and scrutinize companies
expanding into their jurisdiction for the first time, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 