-- Oil Trades Below $100 as U.S. Supply Gain Counters Fuel Demand
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-25T07:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/oil-trades-near-100-as-rising-u-s-stockpiles-counter-iran-supply-threat.html
Crude traded below $100 a barrel in
 New York  as signs of rising U.S. stockpiles countered a report
that showed gasoline demand rose last week in the country, the
world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures were little changed after dropping 0.6 percent
yesterday. Crude inventories  probably rose  last week as imports
rebounded, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report today. U.S. gasoline demand grew for a second
week, MasterCard Inc. data showed yesterday. The European Union
embargo on Iranian oil supplies will “bear bitter fruit,”
Iran’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said this week.  “We’re holding a reasonable level based on an outlook for
some, but low, demand growth and against a background of
potentially relatively tight supply,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Overall, the tone of the oil
market is broadly firm.”  Crude for March delivery was at $98.96 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 1
cent, at 3:36 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract fell
63 cents to $98.95, the lowest settlement since Jan. 20. Prices
have climbed 15 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was at $110.25 a barrel, up 25 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at premium of $11.29 to the
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Fuel Demand  U.S. crude stockpiles probably increased 1.45 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 20, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Supplies
surged 7.33 million barrels, the most in four weeks, based on a
report yesterday from the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute .  Gasoline inventories  are expected to have climbed 2 million
barrels, the survey showed. The API reported a decline of
573,000 barrels. The Energy Department is scheduled to release
its weekly report at 10:30 a.m. today in  Washington .  U.S. gasoline consumption increased 1.3 percent in the
seven days to Jan. 20, MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report showed.
Drivers bought 8.48 million barrels a day of the motor fuel, up
from 8.37 million the prior week.  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as futures remain in a
downward-sloping trend channel that started this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The channel has resistance around
$101.06 a barrel today. Investors tend to sell contracts when
prices approach technical-resistance levels.  Iran  Embargo  Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz  in
retaliation against the embargo on its oil exports. The ban is
part of efforts by the EU and the U.S. to pressure the Persian
Gulf state over a nuclear program, which Western nations say is
aimed at producing weapons.  About 20 percent of the world’s oil flows through the
waterway, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The embargo is “aggressive” and will have “negative
consequences” in Europe, including higher  oil prices , the
country’s government said in statements this week. Iran is the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  