-- Oil Falls a Second Day as U.S. Supply Gain Counters Fuel Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-25T13:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/oil-trades-below-100-as-rising-u-s-stockpiles-counter-gasoline-demand.html
Oil declined a second day in  New
York  as rising U.S. crude inventories countered data showing
gasoline demand increased last week in the world’s largest oil
consumer.  Futures fell as much as 1.2 percent after dropping 0.6
percent yesterday. Crude stockpiles  probably rose  last week as
imports rebounded, according to a Bloomberg News survey before
an Energy Department report today. U.S. gasoline demand grew for
a second week, MasterCard Inc. data showed yesterday. The
European Union embargo on Iranian oil supplies will “bear
bitter fruit,” Iran’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said this week.  “Downward pressure on crude futures could we remain until
the end of the week,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in London, who predicts prices will struggle to rise
above $102 a barrel. “Demand numbers could well see extra
attention” in today’s Energy Department data.  Crude for March delivery fell as much as $1.15 to $98.10 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $98.09 at 1:02 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the
contract fell 63 cents to $98.95, the lowest settlement since
Jan. 20. Prices have climbed 14 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was at $109.53 a barrel, down 50 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at premium of $11.44 to the
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Fuel Demand  U.S. crude stockpiles probably increased 1.45 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 20, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Supplies
surged 7.33 million barrels, the most in four weeks, based on a
report yesterday from the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute .  Gasoline inventories  are expected to have climbed 2 million
barrels, the survey showed. The API reported a decline of
573,000 barrels. The Energy Department is scheduled to release
its weekly report at 10:30 a.m. today in  Washington .  U.S. gasoline consumption increased 1.3 percent in the
seven days to Jan. 20, MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report showed.
Drivers bought 8.48 million barrels a day of the motor fuel, up
from 8.37 million the prior week.  “We’re holding a reasonable level based on an outlook for
some, but low, demand growth and against a background of
potentially relatively tight supply,” said Ric Spooner, chief
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Overall, the tone of the oil
market is broadly firm.”  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as futures remain in a
downward-sloping trend channel that started this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The channel has resistance around
$101.06 a barrel today. Investors tend to sell contracts when
prices approach technical-resistance levels.  Iran  Embargo  Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz  in
retaliation against the embargo on its oil exports. The ban is
part of efforts by the EU and the U.S. to pressure the Persian
Gulf state over a nuclear program, which Western nations say is
aimed at producing weapons.  About 20 percent of the world’s oil flows through the
waterway, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The embargo is “aggressive” and will have “negative
consequences” in Europe, including higher  oil prices , the
country’s government said in statements this week. Iran is the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  