-- Montag Vows ‘New Game’ for BofA Investment Bank as Risk Cut
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-25T18:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/montag-vows-new-game-for-bofa-investment-bank-as-risk-reduced.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s global
banking and markets division is recovering after credit-rating
downgrades ignited concern among clients and trading partners,
said co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag.  Executives from the firm traveled around the world to
reassure corporate clients that the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company was a steady partner after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the bank’s credit grades in September, Montag said
in a Jan. 19 staff meeting.  “We went through a difficult time for a couple of months
where we spent a lot of time with our clients explaining to them
about our balance sheet,” Montag said. “I think we’ve gotten
through the worst of it, and I think this firm, and the market
by the way is telling us this, that this place has incredible
potential. From this point forward, it’s a new game.”  Montag, 55, is under pressure to improve results after the
division’s profit slumped by half last year to $2.97 billion,
including two consecutive quarterly losses. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has said the business was critical to
reviving income at the second biggest U.S. lender and has warned
that he’ll cut costs more deeply if earnings don’t rise.  “Tom and his team don’t aspire to lose money in trading,”
Moynihan, 52, told employees before adding that the division has
been “recovering nicely” in 2012.  Bank of America lost market share last year to rivals
including Morgan Stanley in the trading of equities, bonds,
currencies and commodities, Matthew O’Connor, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Jan. 19 note. New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, also has
lost share since getting a $45 billion taxpayer bailout.  ‘Winning Them Back’  Corporate banking clients remained loyal after the
downgrade, while  hedge funds  may have been harder to retain,
Montag said.  “The markets guys are a little tougher to deal with, as
you know,” he said. “We’re winning them back one by one.”  Bank of America is rated  Baa1 (BAC) , the third-lowest investment-
grade, after the two-level downgrade by Moody’s last year. The
lender’s credit rating, which trading partners use to judge the
risk of a failure to make good on commitments, now is below that
of some of its counterparties, Montag said.  Jessica Oppenheim, a company spokeswoman, declined to
elaborate on his remarks.  ‘Good Year’  Moynihan today predicted a “reasonably good year” for
investment banking as he attended the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. Asked after a panel
discussion whether the bank would continue cost-cutting, he said
he would “keep shaping” the business in response to the
turmoil in  Europe .  The bank’s financial strength improved in the fourth
quarter as Tier 1 common equity, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, rose to 9.86 percent from 8.65 percent in the
previous three-month period. Bank of America shares had surged
 31 percent  this month through yesterday, driven in part by the
balance sheet improvement, after falling 58 percent last year
amid concern the lender would need fresh capital.  “At least for today, it feels like the capital question
has largely been addressed,” Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said during the staff meeting. The firm sold $33
billion in assets last year, helping bolster its cushion for
losses. Analysts now question how Bank of America will improve
profit, he said.  Goldman Sachs  Montag, a former trading head of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
has cut risk amid concern the default of a European nation could
weigh on results. The company’s so-called value-at-risk, an
estimate of how much it could lose in the securities markets in
one day, compared favorably to its biggest competitors, he said.  “We operate at a much lower risk profile this year than
almost anybody yet that we’ve seen,” Montag said. “If you look
at our VAR versus JPMorgan or Goldman Sachs, on our measures, we
think we’re at roughly half of their risk; versus Morgan
Stanley, about 20 percent below their risk. So we have kept
things very close to the vest.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is the biggest U.S. bank by assets,
while Goldman Sachs is fifth and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is No. 6. All
are based in New York.  Bank of America also reduced exposure to some of the most
indebted European nations. The lender had about  $14.4 billion  at
risk in  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  as of Dec.
31, $245 million less than the previous quarter. MF Global
Holdings Ltd. filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31 after a $6.3 billion
bet on European bonds.  ‘Debbie Downer’  “I always hate to be Debbie Downer on these things, but
you know, Europe hasn’t happened yet,” Montag said. “A
competitor of ours went bankrupt because of their exposure to
Europe. Europe is still out there.” Montag was named co-chief
operating officer in September, along with David Darnell, in a
shakeup that resulted in the ouster of  Sallie Krawcheck  and
 Joseph Price . Darnell oversees retail units including deposits,
 wealth management , credit cards and home loans.  Analysts including  Betsy Graseck  of Morgan Stanley and  Todd Hagerman  of Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. have cited poor operating
revenue in cutting estimates for Bank of America’s profit this
year and next. Hagerman, in a Jan. 20 research note, cited the
“persistent uncertainty” around trading results.  Moynihan said last week that his efficiency plan targets $6
billion to $8 billion in expense cuts, mostly from consumer
banking units that account for the majority of the lender’s
employees. He announced 30,000 job cuts from retail operations.  “The real good news for me is that I have two chief
operating officers, so they get to do all the hard work from now
on,” Moynihan said during the staff meeting. “Bruce and I can
take a vacation and let them go to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  