-- Orban’s IMF Reversal Fends Off Hungarian Rate Increase as Forint Rebounds
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-25T13:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/orban-s-imf-reversal-fends-off-hungarian-rate-increase-as-forint-rebounds.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban 
pledging to yield in a row with the European Union helped the
central bank leave the European Union’s highest  main interest
rate  unchanged as the forint rebounded from a record low.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  unexpectedly held the benchmark
two-week deposit rate at 7 percent after a “close vote”
yesterday, during which policy makers also considered a third
consecutive half-point increase, central bank Governor Andras Simor told a news conference in Budapest. The forint and bonds
rose, while stocks fell.  Orban was in Brussels yesterday, seeking to restart bailout
talks that broke down last month over a central bank law that
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU said threatens
monetary-policy independence. Speculation that the talks may
collapse pushed the forint to a record low against the euro
earlier this month. Orban’s pledge to change legislation to
satisfy the 27-member EU helped local assets pare losses.  “The global environment and positive expectations
regarding an IMF/EU deal are protecting the forint for the
moment,”  Gyula Toth , a strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said in an
e-mail. “In case any deterioration in risk appetite is met by
delays in the IMF talks we expect the bank to be forced to hike
rates again.”  Forint, Bonds, Stocks  The forint gained for a seventh day and traded at 298.66
per euro at 1:55 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest since Oct. 28,
2011. Orban’s conciliatory rhetoric sent the forint, the worst-
performing currency in the world in the past six months,
rallying against the euro after falling to a record low of
324.24 on Jan. 5.  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  fell 2 basis points
to 8.86 percent from yesterday and dropped from 10.8 percent on
Jan. 4. The cost of insuring state debt against default fell 4
basis points to 589 basis points after reaching a record 735 on
Jan. 5. The benchmark BUX stock index fell for the second day,
retreating 1 percent to 18,671.01.  “The majority of the council reckoned that the change in
the government’s communication not only influenced risk premia
in the short term, but may also have longer-term effects,”
Simor said.  Orban-Barroso Meeting  Orban met European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
yesterday to outline solutions to the EU executive’s concerns.
The commission threatened on Jan. 17 to file a lawsuit against
 Hungary  because of the central bank law, moves to force hundreds
of judges into retirement by cutting their pension age and a
plan to dismiss the data protection ombudsman after an overhaul
of his office.  “The issues previously deemed most difficult are behind
us,” Orban told private television station  HirTV  yesterday on
his way back from Brussels. The start of aid negotiations may
happen “any time,” he said, adding that there was no single
question that the government regarded as a “taboo.”  “We had a comprehensive and constructive discussion,”
Barroso said in a  statement  after the meeting. “The Prime
Minister indicated Hungary’s readiness to address swiftly the
issues raised by the commission.”  EU finance ministers at a meeting yesterday pushed Hungary
to do more to rein in its  budget deficit , holding out the threat
of a suspension of subsidies if the government doesn’t meet
fiscal targets.  ‘Severe Deterioration’  Hungary’s budget sustainability underwent a “severe
deterioration” last year, which was masked by one-time
measures, the commission said in a report on Jan. 11. Hungary
has failed to take “effective action” to rein in the budget
deficit in a “sustainable nature,” it said. The ministers
yesterday adopted the recommendation.  The outcome of yesterday’s vote is the result of “the
divide between the four new members, who are closely aligned
with the government, and the old guard, totaling three, who
called for a 50 basis-point increase,” said Guillaume Salomon,
London-based emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale SA.
“We believe that the council is indeed completely divided.”  The four outside members of the rate-setting Monetary
Council were appointed last year by a parliamentary committee
dominated by lawmakers belonging to the ruling party.  ‘Substantial and Sustained’  Hungary may need to raise the main rate further if the
country’s risk assessment and inflation outlook “deteriorate
significantly,” Simor said, adding that only a “substantial
and sustained improvement” in risk premiums would warrant a
rate cut.  Hungary’s recent rate increases contrast with the Romanian
central bank, which has lowered borrowing costs twice in the
past three months to 5.75 percent. The Ceska Narodni Banka in
 Prague  has left its two-week repurchase rate unchanged at a
record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010, while Poland kept its
benchmark rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a sixth meeting on
Jan. 11.  Hungarian forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-
month interest costs in one month, fell 24 basis points to 7.56
percent, the lowest level on a closing basis since Dec 28. The
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, to which the FRAs settle,
traded at 7.65 percent.  The government needs to reach an agreement with the two
international institutions “as soon as possible” for financing
costs to decline, the central bank said in a statement
yesterday.  ‘Period of Stability’  Delays in reaching a bailout agreement may force the
central bank to raise borrowing costs again, Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura International Plc. in  London ,
said in an e-mail.  “Expect a period of rates stability now, decisions will be
increasingly led by market risk sentiment,” he said. As
“market pricing must again get much worse to force the
government to make real policy concessions, we also believe
there will be more rate hikes -- say in” the second quarter.  Hungary is ready to change its central bank bill and other
laws because starting talks on an IMF loan is more important for
the government than engaging in a legal battle with the European
Commission, Orban told reporters in Budapest Jan. 20.  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when Orban
became prime minister. He reversed his policy last year when the
state started struggling to raise funds at debt auctions, the
forint plummeted and the country’s sovereign-credit grade was
cut to junk.  Test Case  Hungary’s public debt rose to 83 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of the third quarter, the highest in the
region. It compares with about half that ratio for neighboring
Slovakia, which joined the euro in 2009.  Hungary has become a test case for democratic principles
and economic-policy rules in the EU, forcing the commission to
make good on a pledge to use all its powers to enforce the
bloc’s norms. The country, which isn’t part of the 17-nation
euro area, risks compounding the two-year-old European debt-
crisis centered on the single currency.  The government may reach an agreement with the two
international institutions in “a couple of months” after
negotiations that will start “in the coming weeks,” Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  “We think that negotiations with the IMF can start
officially over the next few weeks and we think that the odds of
a package being reached by” the end of the first quarter or
early in the second quarter “are good,” Pasquale Diana, an
economist at Morgan Stanley in London, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. “Even a modest rally or a stabilization in
risk metrics may be enough to persuade the” central bank “to
remove some of the recent risk-motivated tightening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  