-- Morgan Stanley CEO Says Pay-Cut Complaints Would Be ‘Naive’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-01-25T18:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/morgan-stanley-ceo-says-workers-complaining-of-pay-cuts-need-new-attitudes.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  said employees understand why the
investment bank had to cut pay, and those who don’t grasp the
reasoning need to adjust their attitude.  “You’re naive, read the newspaper, No. 1,” Gorman said he
would tell miffed  employees , speaking in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “No. 2, if you put your compensation in a
one-year context to define your overall level of happiness, you
have a problem which is much bigger than the job. And No. 3, if
you’re really unhappy, just leave. I mean, life’s too short.”  Morgan Stanley is reducing pay for senior investment
bankers and traders by an average of 20 percent to 30 percent,
people with knowledge of the decision said last week. The New
York-based firm is also capping immediate cash bonuses at
$125,000 as it defers a greater share of awards, a person
briefed on the plan said.  “The world has changed and the banking industry has gone
through a fundamental change, and we have to readjust,” Gorman
said from Davos,  Switzerland , where he’s attending the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting. “When we come out of this and
we start re-performing, obviously compensation will reflect
that. Until then, we have to respect the fact that shareholders
have to get paid, too.”  Earnings Decline  Profit fell 13 percent last year to $4.11 billion as the
firm had a 4 percent return on equity, below Gorman’s goal of
the mid-teens. While Morgan Stanley posted the only trading-
revenue increase among the major U.S. banks, excluding
accounting gains, the firm had  per-share losses  in two of the
past three quarters.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said last week that discretionary compensation declined
“significantly more” than the firm’s 26 percent drop in
revenue.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. lender
by assets, told its investment bankers to expect compensation
packages that average 25 percent less than last year, said two
people with knowledge of the discussions.  Gorman’s own pay for 2011 fell 25 percent from a year
earlier to $10.5 million, according to a person briefed on the
figures.  Shareholders Matter  Gorman said his employees understand the need to reward
shareholders with higher returns and he hasn’t seen signs of
defections. The pay “is not as much as everyone would wish for,
and it’s probably more than some of them expected in the world
and turmoil that we’re in,” Gorman said. “They’re loyal. We’ve
had very little turnover, no turnover of the top management
committee at all.”  Morgan Stanley’s  shares  fell 44 percent in 2011, the
biggest annual decline since 2008. The firm rose 5.4 percent on
Jan. 19 after reporting a narrower fourth-quarter loss than
analysts estimated, and had gained 20 percent this year through
yesterday.  Gorman, 53, said the market gains this year have been a
“relief rally” as  Europe  steadied and investors realized that
the  U.S. economy  isn’t as bad as many feared. He said mergers
and initial public offerings may pick up in the second half of
this year.  Private investors reaching an agreement over a
restructuring of Greek debt will keep Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis from getting worse and could spur more efforts from the
 European Central Bank , he said.  Moving Forward  “Getting Greece done is something concrete that puts a
line in the sand,” Gorman said. “That will be a major push
towards more action by the ECB and I believe the euro staying
together as we move forward.”  Charles Dallara , managing director of the Washington-based
 Institute of International Finance , will return to  Athens 
tomorrow to resume talks with the Greek government on a
voluntary bond swap, Greek government spokesman Pantelis Kapsis
said today. Kapsis told reporters in Athens he hoped talks on
the debt swap are concluded by the end of the week.  “If  Greece  fails, then it raises questions about much
larger economies,” Gorman said. The situation has steadied as
administrations have been changed in Spain, Italy and Greece,
central bankers have taken action and banks are starting to
raise capital, deleverage and “get their balance sheets in
shape,” Gorman said. “We’ve got a lot of momentum. What we
need to do is close off some of these problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  