-- Horse Ballet, Potato Show Honor Frederick the Great’s Birthday
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/horse-ballet-potato-show-celebrate-300th-birthday-of-frederick-the-great.html
King Frederick the Great of Prussia,
who played the flute, argued with Voltaire, conquered parts of
 Poland  and attacked  Austria , would have turned 300 yesterday.  The Fritz frenzy of anniversary events planned for this
year in the Berlin and Potsdam region reflects the fascination
the king still exerts, even if not all Saxons and Bavarians are
convinced (they fought on the other side.)  Frederick (1712-1786) is today remembered more for his
cultural than military achievements -- he wrote poetry and
history as well as composing music for the flute. The beautiful
rococo Sanssouci palace complex in Potsdam bears witness to his
love of architecture and garden design.  It was his favorite refuge -- the place to which he
retreated between wars to recuperate, relax and plan the next
one. After the particularly arduous Seven Years’ War, he built
the Neues Palais in Sanssouci park. This is where the biggest
extravaganza of the year is to take place.  Too ostentatious even for the king, the palace was used for
guests. A mega-exhibition called “Friederisiko,” extending
over 70 newly restored rooms, will present Frederick as a risk-
taker. It runs from April 28 to Oct. 28. For information and
tickets, go to  http://www.friederisiko.de .  Frederick treated his favorite sister to a sumptuous
dressage display with 200 extravagantly adorned horses at
Sanssouci in 1750, accompanied by music and dance. The palace is
reviving the king’s “carousel” on four nights in July.  For more information and tickets, go to
 http://www.carrousel-de-sanssouci.de .  Frederick traveled fast -- he used to gallop from Potsdam
to Berlin in an hour. These days, it takes 40 minutes in the S-
bahn commuter train. Just opposite where his old Schloss is
being rebuilt, the  German Historical Museum  on Berlin’s Unter
den Linden is exploring how the king’s image has changed over
the years.  Various German regimes have adapted Frederick’s image to
suit their needs. In the days of the Kaiser before World War I,
he symbolized German national unity. In the turbulent  Weimar
Republic , he came to represent order and conservative values.
During World War II, he was held up by the Nazis as a model
soldier, steely and unyielding.  After 1945, Frederick was reviled as a warmonger in both
East and  West Germany , and it is only in the last decades that
he has regained stature. The exhibition opens on March 21 and
runs through July 29. For more information, go to
 http://www.dhm.de/ .  As a child and adolescent, Frederick suffered at the hands
of his father Frederick William I, a bad-tempered, gouty despot
nicknamed the “Soldier King” because of his fondness for
square-bashing. He had no patience with a son who liked music
and reading, described him as an “effeminate fellow” and beat
him regularly.  At 18, Frederick made a failed attempt to flee his father’s
joyless court and the physical abuse. His accomplice Hans
Hermann von Katte was arrested a few days later in Berlin.
Frederick William ordered Katte to be beheaded in front of his
son, who fainted on the spot.  In 1733, his father forced Frederick into a marriage with
Elisabeth Christine von Braunschweig-Bevern. The marriage --
which he bitterly resisted -- allowed the crown prince to set up
his own court at Rheinsberg, north of Berlin, and his happiest
years were spent there preparing for the throne.  He took up his four-decade-long correspondence with
Voltaire, played music, wrote poetry and history and enjoyed the
company of well-traveled, educated young men.  The palace at Rheinsberg, which Frederick extended to make
more symmetrical and grander, is hosting an exhibition about his
time there, focusing on his passion for building and gardening,
his vision and strategy, and his role as a husband.  The exhibition opens on Aug. 5 through Oct. 28. For more
information, go to  http://www.spsg.de/index_10139_de.html   As king, Frederick minted thousands of coins, including
some to reward brave soldiers. These are on show at the  Bode
Museum  on Berlin’s Museum Island to Oct. 14.  One of the most famous portraits of him, Adolph Menzel’s
“Flute Concert” showing Frederick playing, was painted long
after the king’s death. It will feature in an exhibition at the
Alte Nationalgalerie on Museum Island opening March 23.  His porcelain, at first obtained by military occupation of
the Meissen factory in Saxony before he set up his own factory
in Berlin, will go on display at Schloss Koepenick from June 15.  For more information on all three exhibitions, go to
 http://www.smb.museum   There’s even a show exploring Frederick’s relationship with
the potato, opening on July 27. The House of Brandenburg-
Prussian History in Potsdam will examine the myth that the king
introduced the potato to Brandenburg to save his people from
hunger. The truth is that he did promote its cultivation --
fighting religious concerns that this heathen food from America
would replace biblical bread.  For more information, go to  http://www.hbpg.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 