-- Houston Astros Owner Balks at Jefferson County Debt Inquiry
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-25T23:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/houston-astros-owner-balks-at-jefferson-county-debt-inquiry-1-.html
James R. Crane, owner of the Houston
Astros baseball team, asked a judge to cancel an order requiring
him to answer questions about a lawsuit he settled involving his
investment in the debt of bankrupt  Jefferson County (3681MF) ,  Alabama .  Crane doesn’t have any personal knowledge about  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s role in $3.2 billion in defaulted debt issued by
Jefferson County’s sewer system, lawyers for the investor said
in court papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Birmingham, Alabama. The county had won permission to question
Crane under oath and to exam documents related to Crane’s
lawsuit against New York-based JPMorgan.  Crane settled a lawsuit against JPMorgan related to $35
million worth of county sewer warrants he purchased that later
went into default. The county is also suing JPMorgan over the
sewer debt and said in court documents that it may want to use
any information Crane gathered against the bank, which
underwrote the bonds.  Since Crane doesn’t have any personal knowledge about
JPMorgan’s role, “it is harassing and unduly burdensome to
require Crane to appear and testify,” his attorneys said in
court papers.  Earlier this month, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett
in Birmingham approved a request by the county to question the
investor, and to review the settlement that ended his lawsuit.
Bennett ordered Crane to appear at the Houston offices of his
 law firm  to answer questions about the case.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November after the
county, state officials and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement to reduce its $3.2 billion in sewer debt by
about $1 billion, raise rates and win financial support from the
Alabama state legislature.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  