-- How Kenya Is Building a Sustainable Banana
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-25T04:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/how-kenya-is-building-a-sustainable-banana.html
     The  Kenya  Agricultural Research Institute is
banana
paradise. The artificial sun shines on plants for 16 hours a
day and hides for eight. Tender green shoots luxuriate in pint
jars containing a milky liquid that’s rich in all the
nutrients a growing banana needs. It’s a sterile
environment, devoid of the pathogens and nematodes that stunt
and kill bananas. Through a mask, researcher Susan Muli
shushes me when I open my mouth with a question: “There are
microbes!”  Muli is preparing tissue cultures of various banana
species, marking their jars by date and variety – Chinese
Cavendish, Uganda Green, Ngombe – then placing them in a
climate-controlled, 15 by 20-foot room next to the lab. The
room holds seven shelves of pint jars that together make up a
nursery of 100,000 banana trees. Once grown, that’s enough to
cover about 200 football fields and support nearly as many
smallholder farms.  The plants sit on the shelves for five months before
their transfer to an outdoor greenhouse. The institute sells
them to farmers, who sell it to prospering buyers in Nairobi
and Kenya’s growing cities.  The “tissue-culture” bananas are the products of simple
plant science—it’s old-fashioned biotechnology. The
tried-and-true methods that are common in Asia and  Latin
America  are only beginning to take root in much of
 Africa , where one-third of the world’s bananas are consumed.
In Kenya, only about 5 percent of banana acreage was under
tissue-culture cultivation in 2006, a number at that time
projected to expand to as much as 40 percent by
2016, according to Africa Harvest Biotech Foundation
International.  The quest to build a better banana is about more than
boosting fruit production. It’s an iconic subplot in the
worldwide push for corporate sustainability. Global
agribusiness has its own ideas for how Africa can help feed an
anticipated 2050 global population of 9 billion people.
Leading businesses know they need to be everywhere the future
population -- and consequently, the biggest growth
opportunities -- will be.  That’s in part what motivates companies such as DuPont to
educate the world’s poorest farmers. DuPont subsidiary Pioneer
Hi-Bred International has trained farmers in crop management
near Nairobi. They’ve also provided farmers with credit, so
that they can acquire the raw materials they need.  Such corporate projects in  developing countries  are the
embodiment of “Creating Shared Value,” which Michael E. Porter
and Mark R. Kramer described in an influential article last
year in the Harvard Business Review: “A growing number of
companies known for their hard-nosed approach to
business--such as GE, Google, IBM, Intel, Johnson &
Johnson, Nestle, Unilever, and Wal-Mart--have already embarked
on important efforts to create shared value by reconceiving
the intersection between society and corporate performance.”  For African entrepreneurs, the global trends buttress
their own efforts to connect poorer farmers with
local, regional, and international markets.  That still doesn’t make it easy. As is the case with
cultivating bananas, there are bruises along the way.  ***  A better Kenyan banana couldn’t come at a better time.
Cavendish bananas, responsible for 99 percent of the world’s
shipments, are threatened by a pest called Tropical Race
Four, which has already wiped out the variety in  Asia .
Scientists believe the soil-borne fungus will make it to Latin
America, home to four of the world’s top five banana
exporters.  Should the fungus devastate Latin America, the world
would see a repeat of the devastation that befell the Gros
Michel banana, the most-popular variety of the first half of
the twentieth century.  The pathogen that devastated the Gros Michel in Latin
America pushed profits at United Fruit Co, now called Chiquita
Brands, down 97 percent during the 1950s. That allowed rival
Standard Fruit Co., now called Dole Food Company Inc., to
become the leading fruit-seller by adopting the Cavendish, a
position it holds to this day.  Kenya’s year-round growing season, and relatively stable
economy by African standards, holds great potential as a
banana-producer, first for local markets and potentially for
exports, according to Henry Kinyua, a manager for East African
fruits at TechnoServe, a nonprofit with the tagline “Business
Solutions to Poverty” that has worked with
Nestlé, Google, Lenovo Group, Procter & Gamble and Cargill.  Tissue-culture bananas give Kenya a chance to boost
production just when the world may need new sources, said
Gerald Muthomi, who buys bananas from farmers with his
wife, Rosemary, and sells them in Kenyan cities. While
one-third of the planet’s bananas are grown in Africa, only
about 4 percent of all exports originate there. The disparity
is an opportunity for poor farmers and agents who can bring
their fruit to bigger markets.  Gerald Muthomi is wiry and expressive. He does most of
the talking. Rosemary, dignified in a light-blue business suit
of jacket and knee-length skirt, interjects guidance to keep
him on-topic. We are sitting in their bright-white meeting
room with windows open. An employee brings tropical fruit on a
tray. A separate plate bears a single, banana that’s large and
hearty. It’s not as curved as a typical American grocery-store
Cavendish—and, like most every Kenyan banana, has more black
bruises on its skin.  The banana tastes sweeter and grainier, yet softer than
any store-bought Latin American variety flown from  Ecuador  to
 Minneapolis . “That’s a Gros Michel,” Gerald Muthomi says, the
legendary lost fruit that still thrives in Kenya. What
shippers used to affectionately call “Big Mike,” before it
disappeared from northern store shelves a half-century ago.  As many as 84 distinct types of East African highland
bananas exist. The world, however, doesn’t want 84 distinct
types of East African highland bananas. It mostly wants just
one, the Cavendish. So Kenya’s export potential will come from
growing the main global varieties.  At markets, the familiar Cavendish increasingly sits
side-by-side with the Kampala and other bananas, in their
myriad shapes, sizes, and tastes.  ***  When Gerald Muthomi was a child near Meru, Kenya, he grew
and harvested coffee, a biological fact that led to his
passion for helping poor farmers. All the children wore long
shirts because pants were too expensive. The one pair of
shorts available to his brother and him was available to
whoever woke up first in the morning.  On the coffee farm, Muthomi’s father would require him to
pick 50 pounds of coffee beans before leaving for school in
the day. A village elder gave him some of his own coffee
plants to introduce him to caring for his own crops. His real
initiation into farming came with the the first French beans
he grew, and what they represented to him:  Pants.  “When I sold them, I went to town and bought my own
trousers. I would walk around with my hands in my pockets.
This was quite an achievement!”  Fifteen years ago, when the Gerald and Rosemary Muthomi
left the Kenyan government to start their business, local
farmers had no sense of growing for nearby or regional markets
or what practices could improve their incomes.  The couple started their company, Mt. Kenya, by reselling
the products farmers grew, thinking food crops shipped to
Nairobi might be a promising alternative to coffee exports.
They first took beans to the capital by buying bus tickets to
the city, placing a 100-kilogram bag of beans in their seat
and standing for the four-hour drive. Once they proved that
French beans weren’t only for white people, they began selling
fruit—first papayas, then bananas. They spent no money on
advertising. As Meru bananas—and their banana sellers— became
known in the Nairobi market, the Muthomis become known for
their produce.  Sales at Mount Kenya Gardens rose from more than $500,000
in 2008 to almost $700,000 in 2009 as they supplied Kenyan
grocery chains with fresh produce. The couple would like to
begin exporting in the next few years, first to nearby African
and Middle East countries, where it may be easier to meet
foreign food-safety standards, then to  Europe . Proper
financing and enough farmers growing high-quality bananas
could make the sky the limit for their business, they believe.
They may be right.  ***  Climate change  in Kenya, as in the rest of Africa, is
expected to worsen, possibly costing as much as 2.6 percent of
Gross Domestic Product each year by 2030, according to a study
by the Stockholm Environment Institute. Overall rainfall is
expected to increase, the rains may become more erratic, and
higher temperatures will speed evaporation. Worldwide, climate
change could raise wheat prices 59 percent higher, paddy rice
56 percent higher, and livestock 39 percent higher than they
otherwise would have been by 2030, according to Oxfam
International.  Bananas are among the thirstiest fruit. The more-frequent
floods and droughts predicted by climate change models
increase the chance that bananas may be inundated with too
much rainfall one season and left parched in another.  ***  The Muthomis experienced the ills of poor rainfall—and
poor finance— in 2010, when a lack of rain devastated
production near Meru,  about 140 miles northeast of Nairobi.
The Muthomis extend farmers credit in the form of fertilizers
and other crop needs. But conditions left farmers unable to
grow food and pay the Muthomis.  “We are loyal to the smallholder,” Gerald Muthomi said.
“We were smallholders, and smallholders take better care of
the land. This is who we serve.” This loyalty had a price when
loans came due and the farmers were unable to cover their
debts with production.  “Last year we lost all our profits, because the drought
was enormous and we couldn’t deliver. And what should we do? A
young boy who is finishing school and farming a 10-by-10 plot
of land can’t give me beans. Do you bring him to the police?
So me and Rosemary sat down and absorbed the loss. We’ve been
living from hand-to-mouth. Our biggest problem is finances.
The droughts are unpredictable.”  The Muthomis’ work bringing fruit to larger markets is at
the front lines of a battle that reaches across global
companies’ supply chains, and quite possibly into your local
supermarket. The global village enjoys a good banana -- it may
take work on everyone’s part to ensure we can continue to.  This story is excerpted from Alan Bjerga's new
book, Endless Appetites: How the Commodities Casino Creates
Hunger and Unrest (Bloomberg Press, 2011).  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest from Bloomberg News about
energy, natural resources and global business.
 