-- Lloyd’s Nelson Pursues Overseas Insurers Amid Difficult Market
-- B y   K e i t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-01-25T13:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/lloyd-s-of-london-chairman-works-to-lure-foreign-firms-amid-tough-market.html
Lloyd’s of London Chairman  John Nelson  said he’s in talks with “major insurers overseas” given
the “high level of interest” in the world’s oldest insurance
market.  “We are attracting serious overseas interest into
London,” Nelson said in Davos, Switzerland, citing  Aon Corp. (AON) ’s
relocation to the U.K. capital from Chicago and China
Reinsurance Group’s investment in a Lloyd’s syndicate. “I will
be pursuing those while I am here,” he said of his discussions
in Davos, without naming the other parties.  He spoke in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Televsion’s “On the Move” on the sidelines of the World Economic
Forum’s annual meeting.  Nelson said the insurance market for 2012 will “remain
difficult” after the “particularly” bad end to last year
caused by flooding losses in  Thailand . Premium rates and
investment returns will also remain relatively low, he said.  “Premium rates in those areas which have been most
affected are rising, in other areas they’re not,” he said.
“Overall, it’s a fairly subdued rise.”  London’s position as a financial center isn’t under
“serious threat” if it pursues the “right” policies, such as
lowering taxes and easing work-visa requirements for overseas
nationals, he said. “The personal tax regime will hold us
back,” he said. At the same time, “business has to recognize
the reality of life,” Nelson said. “There is serious public
disquiet about executive remuneration.”  Nelson, a former banker at Lazard Ltd. and  Credit Suisse
First Boston , was named chairman of Lloyd’s last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Campbell  in London at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  