-- Peek Into Romney Taxes Puts Him in Ranks of Richest Candidates
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/peek-into-romney-taxes-puts-him-in-ranks-of-richest-presidential-bidders.html
John F. Kennedy was the scion of a
business fortune. Billionaire Ross Perot’s success spurred his
candidacy. Democrat  John Kerry ’s wife’s fortune dogged his.  Mitt Romney , the Republican former executive of buyout firm
Bain Capital LLC, is among a line of well-heeled contenders for
the White House, and the release of his tax return yesterday was
part of an election-year ritual: a peek into their finances and
the taxes that they pay. Romney made $21.6 million in 2010 --
some $59,000 a day, weekends included, and paid $3 million in
taxes, an effective rate of 13.9 percent.  His wealth and  tax rate , less than half the top marginal
rate on wage incomes, stand out against even his wealthy
competitors, reflecting the fortune made in finance and the
lower tax rate given to income from capital gains.  “He’s got an awful lot of money,” said  Roberton Williams ,
an analyst with the non-partisan  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington. “It puts him not just in the top 1 percent, or the
top tenth of one percent -- he’s way, way up there.”  Republican rival  Newt Gingrich , whose $3.14 million income
included speaking fees, paid 32 percent of that in taxes.
President  Barack Obama , moonlighting as a best-selling author,
paid 26 percent of his $1.7 million income as taxes in 2010.  ‘Much Less Tax’  “What’s clearly the case is people with a lot of
investment income pay much less tax on that income than people
who make that income from working,” Williams said. “That’s the
way our system is set up.”  Romney’s wealth has figured prominently in a Republican
presidential contest at a time when the  U.S. economy  is still
struggling to replace the  jobs  that were lost in a recession
that was fueled by Wall Street’s credit crisis.  Gingrich has questioned whether Romney’s fortune was made
at the expense of workers at the companies he acquired, an issue
raised by a film Gingrich supporters released before the South
Carolina primary. In Congress, Romney’s returns reignited a
debate on the tax treatment of so-called carried interest, which
provides a relative handful of investment executives with
preferential tax rates.  Romney said he anticipated that his income would draw
Democratic attacks and said there was no need to apologize.  “Oh, I’m sure people will talk about it,” Romney said
during a debate in Tampa,  Florida , on Jan. 23. “You’ll see my
income, how much taxes I’ve paid, how much I’ve paid to charity.
You’ll see how complicated taxes can be.”  He added: “I pay all the taxes that are legally required
and not a dollar more. I don’t think you want someone as the
candidate for president who pays more taxes than he owes.”  Lengthy Return  The length of Romney’s  tax return  argues the case for a
simpler  tax code , said David Logan, an economist with the  Tax
Foundation , which advocates for a simpler tax system with lower
rates. The joint filing by Romney and his wife, Ann, runs 203
pages. That’s more than four times as long as Gingrich’s return.
Obama’s is 59 pages.  “If there’s anything that can illustrate the complexity of
the tax code, it is the number of pages that got released for
his return only,” said Logan. “This complexity can absolutely
benefit high-income earners with preferential rates. It
absolutely, positively affects low-income earners too.”  Romney also directed his wealth to charity, giving $2.98
million in 2010, including $1.5 million to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the Mormon church. Gingrich donated
$81,133, including $9,540 to the Basilica of the National Shrine
of the Immaculate Conception. Obama gave $245,075, with the
most, $131,075, going to the Fisher House Foundation, which
provides housing for military families receiving medical care.  Wealthy Candidates  Romney’s wealth, with a net worth estimated by his campaign
of between $190 million and $250 million, would make him among
the richest U.S. presidents if he were to win the office. Forbes
magazine, which compiles such a ranking,  put him at No. 4 ,
behind land-rich founders George Washington and  Thomas Jefferson 
and Herbert Hoover, who made his money in mining.  Such wealth in a candidate isn’t unprecedented.  Ross Perot ,
founder of Electronic Data Systems Corp., had an estimated
wealth of $2.4 billion in 1993, a year after he initiated an
independent candidacy for the presidency driven by concern about
the effect of global trade on employment.  In 2004, Democratic vice presidential nominee  John Edwards ,
the attorney-turned-senator, disclosed that he paid $22,741 in
taxes on $433,546 in income the prior year, a rate of 5.2
percent that was kept low by investment income.  Rich Spouses  Senator John Kerry faced questions about the wealth of his
wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, the heir to a $500 million fortune,
when he ran for president in 2004 and she resisted initial
requests to release her tax returns. Once she released them, it
showed she paid $628,401 on income of $5 million, a rate of
about 12.5 percent. In 2008, Cindy McCain, the wife of
Republican presidential nominee  John McCain  and chairwoman of a
beer distributor, reported paying $1.1 million in federal taxes
on income of $4.2 million the year before.  Franklin Roosevelt , who was president during the Great
Depression and railed against organized money, hailed from a
wealthy family.  John F. Kennedy ’s father, Joseph Kennedy, made a
fortune in business before his son went on to win the presidency
in 1960.  U.S. voters have no natural aversion to wealthy candidates,
said Barbara Perry, a fellow at the  University of Virginia ’s
Miller Center. She said it can be less of an obstacle for
Democrats, though, because their party since the 1930s has been
defined by using the power of government to help the needy.  Wealth a Challenge  His wealth may prove a challenge to Romney, she said, given
the toll that the Wall Street credit crisis of 2008 took on the
economy.  “How does that play in these difficult economic times when
his particular source of wealth -- the finance industry -- is
the very cause of the economic difficulty?” Perry said.  During their Jan. 23 debate, Romney used his tax bracket to
turn the tables on Gingrich, who has advocated eliminating
levies on capital gains altogether. Romney, whose tax return
lists a $12.6 million capital gain, said his rival’s plan would
cut his taxes even more.  “Under that plan, I’d have paid no taxes in the last two
years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  