-- Contracts to Purchase Existing U.S. Homes Hold Near 19-Month High: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-25T17:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-fell-in-december-from-a-19-month-high.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes in December held near a
19-month high, showing the stabilization in the market that
began in late 2011 will extend into the new year.  The  index  of pending home sales decreased 3.5 percent last
month after jumping a combined 18 percent in October and
November, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in  Washington . It was the best back-to-back reading
since a buyer tax credit boosted demand in early 2010.  “We’ve had a clear turn toward positive momentum in the
housing market,”  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , and the third most
accurate forecaster of pending home sales. “Lower unemployment
and higher confidence, coupled with record low mortgage rates,
are coalescing to spur increased buying.”  The ability of the market to sustain gains in the absence
of government incentives may mean housing has stopped weighing
on growth. President Barack Obama yesterday proposed a plan
aimed at reducing monthly mortgage payments, which would help
combat a drop in  home prices  that Federal Reserve policy makers
say is impeding the world’s largest economy.  Central bankers said today that they’ll keep their
benchmark  interest rate  low until at least late 2014 to help
stoke the economy.  Fed Statement  “While indicators point to some further improvement in
overall labor market conditions, the unemployment rate remains
elevated,” the Fed said in its statement. “Household spending
has continued to advance, but growth in business fixed
investment has slowed, and the housing sector remains
depressed.”  The decrease in pending sales exceeded the median forecast
of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News that projected a 1
percent decline.  Estimates (USPHTMOM)  ranged from a drop of 8.1 percent to
an increase of 7 percent.  Sales increased 4.4 percent from December 2010.  Stocks declined as forecasts at Boeing Co. and Yahoo! Inc.
trailed expectations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent to 1,313.4 at 11:35 a.m. in  New York . The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index rose 1 percent.  Elsewhere today, the U.K. economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter as factories reduced production and services
stagnated, leaving Britain on the brink of another recession,
data from the  Office for National Statistics  showed in  London .  Japan  Deficit  In  Asia , Japan posted its first annual  trade gap  since 1980
as nuclear plant shutdowns following last year’s earthquake
prompted companies to import energy. A third straight monthly
deficit in December capped an annual shortfall of 2.49 trillion
yen ($32 billion), the  finance ministry  in  Tokyo  said.  Another report today showed U.S.  home prices  rose 1 percent
in November from the prior month, the biggest increase in six
years, according to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .
Nonetheless, values were down 1.8 percent over the past 12
months as foreclosures held back a recovery.  Among other recent housing figures, purchases of  previously
owned  homes climbed 5 percent in December to a 4.61 million
annual rate, the highest level since January 2011, the NAR
reported last week.  Also in December, builders broke ground on 470,000 single-
family houses at an annual rate, the most since April 2010,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Economy Improving  “The economy is beginning to firm up,” Douglas Yearley
Jr., chief executive officer of  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , said in a
Jan. 11 interview with Bloomberg Television. “We see more
people coming out to buy. The affordability has never been
better.”  Three of four regions of the U.S. showed a decrease in
contract signings from a month earlier, led by an 11 percent
slump in the West. Pending sales also fell in the Northeast and
South.  The report showed an  index level  for pending home sales of
96.6 on a seasonally adjusted basis, down from 100.1 in
November. It was the highest two months since March and April
2010. A reading of 100 is consistent with the average level of
contract activity in 2001 and coincides with “historically
healthy” home-buying traffic, according to the NAR.  At the end of 2009, the Obama administration extended a tax
credit for first-time buyers through April 2010 and expanded it
to include some current owners. The government incentive, worth
as much as $8,000, helped bolster sales of previously owned
homes before they dropped off in the middle of 2010, at one
point touching the lowest level in at least a decade.  Leading Indicator  Economists consider pending home sales a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing homes sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, usually a month or two later.  Faster job creation may help push more people into the
market for homeownership. The economy added 200,000 jobs in
December, and the  unemployment rate  declined to an almost three-
year low of 8.5 percent, Labor Department figures showed earlier
this month.  Homebuyers are also enjoying cheaper borrowing costs. The
average rate of a  30-year fixed mortgage  fell to a record-low
3.88 percent as of Jan. 19, according to data by  Freddie Mac .  Lower rates combined with prices that have slumped for four
out of the five past years are making homes increasingly
 affordable . The median price of a previously-owned home declined
to $166,100 in 2011, the lowest annual average since $165,000 in
2002, NAR data show.  More Affordable  The agents group’s affordability index was at 194.5 in
November,  second only  to the prior month’s level as the highest
on record. A reading of 100 means a household earning the median
income can afford a median-priced home at current lending rates.  “Housing affordability conditions are too good to pass
up,” NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a statement
accompanying the release. “Our hope is lending conditions will
gradually improve with sustained increases in closed existing-
home sales.”  President Obama is proposing a plan to help reduce monthly
mortgage payments. The program will give “every responsible
homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their
mortgage by refinancing at historically low interest rates,”
Obama said during last night’s State of the Union address. “No
more red tape. No more runaround from the banks.”  Obama Plan  Costs would be covered by a fee on financial companies with
more than $50 billion in assets, according to two senior
administration officials who briefed reporters on the plan.
Obama said “a small fee on the largest financial institutions
will ensure that it won’t add to the deficit.”  The proposal follows Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
Bernanke ’s call for lawmakers and the Obama administration to
offer more aid for housing. The Fed, which is holding short-term
borrowing costs near zero and buying government-backed mortgage
bonds, said in a paper sent to Congress this month that a
previous Obama administration effort to make refinancing easier
had failed to go far enough.  The central bank will issue its latest forecasts for the
economy and interest rates later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  