-- Pentagon Proposes Buying 3 More Northrop Grumman Global Hawks
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-25T01:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/pentagon-proposes-buying-3-more-northrop-grumman-global-hawks.html
The Pentagon’s proposed fiscal 2013
budget includes about $1.2 billion to buy three additional
advanced versions of  Northrop Grumman (NOC)  Corp.’s Global Hawk
surveillance drone, according to a U.S. government official.  The Pentagon also proposes to continue an $11 billion Navy
program to continue developing a maritime version of the RQ-4
Global Hawk that is flying surveillance missions over the
 Persian Gulf , said the official, who has knowledge of the
Defense Department’s budget plans.  The proposed budget would buy three additional so-called
Block 40 drones equipped with a sophisticated  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
 sensor  capable of simultaneously snapping detailed ground maps
and tracking moving targets, said the official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because he isn’t authorized to discuss
the budget publicly. The  Air Force  already has 11 of these
latest models delivered or on contract, according to service and
Northrop data.  The Pentagon Director of Operational Test and Evaluation in
its latest annual report said the sensor, called the Radar
Technology Insertion Program, “met nearly all system
performance specifications with improved sensor stability.”  The official said the Pentagon also has accepted an Air
Force recommendation to reduce its purchases of the third-
generation Global Hawk, called the Block 30, and shift money to
continued operations and maintenance of the high-altitude
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  U-2 manned reconnaissance aircraft, which
first entered service in the mid-1950s.  The decision to forgo buying the last 10 Block 30s is the
second major reduction in the Global Hawk program in less than a
year. Last June, then-chief Pentagon weapons buyer  Ashton Carter 
directed that 11 Block 30 Global Hawks be cut because of cost
growth.  The Air Force previously purchased 14 Block 30 Global
Hawks, and Northrop is under contract to deliver four more,
according to company data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  