-- Peru Sells $1.1 Billion in First Overseas Debt Issue Since 2010
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-01-25T21:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/peru-to-sell-bonds-in-dollar-and-soles-in-first-overseas-issue-since-2010.html
Peru  sold $1.1 billion of bonds in
the country’s first overseas offering since 2010.  The Andean nation sold $500 million more of its 5.625
percent dollar bonds due in 2050 to yield 5.37 percent, or 225
basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. It also
issued $600 million more of its sol-denominated debt due 2031 to
yield 6.875 percent, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because he’s not allowed to speak publicly.  The sale comes eight months after Peru first shelved plans
to tap international markets because the country’s presidential
elections and turmoil in European financial markets curbed
investor demand. Brazil, Colombia and  Mexico  have also sold
bonds overseas this month as growing demand for emerging-market
securities pushed down borrowing costs.  “ Latin America  continues to be in a very positive
investment light,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal, said by phone from New York. “As
matters worsen in  Europe , that accelerates the trend of
investors looking for what are perceived to be higher yields in
safer sovereigns.”  Peru sold $1 billion of notes due in 2050 in November 2010.
The yield on the securities rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 5.34 percent at 3:47 p.m. in  Lima , leaving
it up 22 basis points in the past month.  ‘Additional Supply’  Yields rose on longer-maturity Peruvian bonds “mostly
because of the additional supply” from today’s issue, said
Daniel Chodos, a New York-based strategist with Credit Suisse
AG, in an e-mail.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.6940 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.6920 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  Fitch Ratings  raised Peru’s foreign-debt rating to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade, from BBB- on Nov. 10, citing
moves by President Ollanta Humala to negotiate an increase in
mining royalties and maintain economic policies that fueled a
decade of region-beating economic growth.  Rising public and private investment will spur 5.5 percent
growth in Peru this year, the fastest in the region, after a 6.8
percent expansion last year, central bank President Julio Velarde said Dec. 16.  Humala’s Cabinet  South America ’s sixth-largest economy has grown an average
6.4 percent annually in the past decade as rising demand for the
country’s copper, gold and natural gas reserves lured foreign
investment.  Humala, a former army officer who took office July 28,
revamped his cabinet last month as he seeks to speed up the
resolution of social conflicts slowing investment in new mines.
Peru is the world’s number three copper and zinc producer and
sixth in gold.  “It would have been unthinkable six or seven years ago
that Peru would be able to sell 40-year bonds,” said Aldo Ferrini, the head of investments at AFP Integra, the country’s
second-largest private pension fund. “It shows Peru’s an issuer
that respects the rules of the game and is striving to become a
more developed country.”  The government probably offered 2031 sol-denominated bonds
payable in dollars as it seeks to increase the proportion of
public debt in local currency while averting a surge in demand
for soles from investors participating in the offering, Ferrini
said. Integra is among the bidders in today’s offering, he said.  “Peruvian papers are as sought after by locals as they are
by foreign investors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  