-- TPG’s Partner Paves Way for Newcomers to Indonesia’s Private-Equity Market
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2012-01-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/tpg-partner-paves-way-for-newcomers-to-indonesian-private-equity.html
New investors are pushing into
 Indonesia ’s fledgling private-equity market, where firms led by
TPG Capital’s local partner raised a record $1.16 billion last
year even as deal-making fell by more than half.  Glenn Yusuf, who ran Indonesia’s bank and corporate rescue
agency following the Asian financial crisis in 1998, brought in
former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. senior executive Brian
O’Connor and private-equity manager Samir Soota to start Falcon
House Partners. Mark Thornton moved to Jakarta in January after
leaving 3i Group Plc, Britain’s largest publicly traded private-
equity firm, and Chad Christopher Holm, a former Bank of America
Corp. banker, set up Yawadwipa Cos.  The newcomers will compete for deals with global firms such
as KKR & Co. and  Carlyle Group  in Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy. There will likely be as many as eight new Indonesia-
focused buyout funds in the next two years, said Juan Delgado
Moreira, head of Asia at Hamilton Lane, which invests in private
equity on behalf of clients.  “Fundraising isn’t really a problem,” said Delgado, who
is based in  Hong Kong . “Indonesia is probably the sexiest
destination in the  emerging markets  now.”  Indonesia-focused private-equity firms, including Northstar
Pacific Partners, backed by TPG, increased fundraising about
fourfold from 2010, data from the Center for Asia Private Equity
Research in Hong Kong show. Indonesia’s gross domestic product
will increase 6.2 percent in 2012, the  World Bank  said this
month, compared with a global average of 2.5 percent.  ‘More Insulated’  “Indonesia is a little more insulated from the global
woes,” said Thornton, 3i’s former head of  Southeast Asia . “I
get the sense that they’re not feeling the pain and anxiety the
same way that many other countries are.”  The private-equity industry manages assets of less than $5
billion, compared with a stock market value of $407 billion,
according to Gita Wirjawan, the country’s trade minister.  “Private equity in Indonesia is still in its infancy,”
said Charles Gunawan, co-head of  investment banking  for
Indonesia at Credit Suisse Group AG in Jakarta. “It’s going to
become explosive. Give it five years, it’s going to go in a very
major way.”  Private-equity deals in Indonesia fell 53 percent to about
$545 million last year, according to the  Center for Asia Private
Equity Research . The 2010 figure was boosted by the 7.2 trillion
rupiah ($797 million) acquisition by London-based CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. of PT Matahari Putra Prima’s department store
business, the biggest buyout in Indonesia.  In  China , the value of transactions rose 26 percent to
$14.2 billion, while in  India  they gained 41 percent to $7.8
billion, according to the firm.  Cheaper Options  Deals of $100 million or more have been rare in Indonesia
as companies large enough to require such amounts have cheaper
funding options or are unwilling to cede or share control with
outside investors, Gunawan said.  Indonesia’s central bank cut its  benchmark interest rate  to
a record-low 6 percent last year to shield the economy from
slowing global growth. Yields on U.S. dollar bonds sold by
Indonesian companies average 6.73 percent, the lowest since
September, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index .  Investments are set to pick up in the second half of the
year as the economy starts to feel the impact of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and companies turn to private equity funds that have the
“dry powder” to shore up corporate balance sheets, said
Sandiaga Uno, who co-founded Jakarta-based Saratoga Capital.  “The interest will take some time to translate into
capital being deployed to work,” he said.  Ratings Upgrade  Saratoga, which is seeking to raise $400 million for its
third fund, bought a stake in budget carrier PT Mandala Airlines
last year. It has invested almost $600 million since starting in
1998 and returned about five times the money, Uno said.  The firm is shifting focus to companies that will benefit
from growing consumption in the world’s fourth-most populous
nation, away from natural resources investments, said Uno, who
started the firm with Indonesian billionaire Edwin Soeryadjaya.  Indonesia’s growth has so far weathered the faltering
global economy, helping it regain an investment grade rating for
its sovereign debt at  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service for the first time since the Asian financial crisis.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates Indonesia at BB+, the highest non-
investment grade rating, with a positive outlook.  Indonesia is the world’s biggest palm oil producer and
holds some of the largest deposits of natural gas and minerals
such as coal and copper.  Consumer confidence  has been buoyed by
political stability under President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono not
seen since the ouster of former dictator Suharto in 1998.  Stocks Rally  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  climbed 16 percent in
the past year, the second best-performer in  Asia  behind the
 Philippines . The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 12 percent.  Northstar raised $820 million last year, the biggest
private-equity fund to invest in the country, after attracting
“a lot of” first-time investors, including pension funds,
sovereign wealth funds and fund of funds worldwide, said co-
founder Patrick Walujo in Jakarta. The manager has already
invested about 20 percent of the fund, Northstar’s third, in
three transactions.  Before raising its latest fund, Northstar had invested
about $1.2 billion with its partners, of which about $400
million was its own capital, Walujo said. “We should be able to
at least generate that kind of investment within the next five
years,” said the former investment banker at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  New Entrants  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, run by billionaire David
Bonderman, took a minority stake in Northstar through a share
swap last year. Northstar and TPG joined a group led by
Indonesian billionaire Boy Garibaldi Thohir that bought a stake
in consumer lender PT BFI Finance Indonesia in May.  Among the new entrants, Holm, formerly a Hong Kong-based
Bank of America managing director who worked on mergers and
acquisitions, set up Yawadwipa, which has offices in Jakarta and
 Singapore , in January. He aims to raise $1 billion for an
Indonesian private-equity fund mainly from the nation’s
wealthiest individuals.  Former 3i executive Thornton, who attended an intensive
Bahasa Indonesia language course in Jogjakarta in central Java
late last year, said he is considering setting up a “special
opportunities” fund that would make private-equity investments,
buy shares of listed companies and high interest-paying debt. A
“pure private-equity approach” may not be the most effective
way of investing in Indonesia given how young the industry is,
he said.  Local Partners  “Unless you have a local partner who really knows the
local dynamics very well, it is hard to clinch a deal,” said
Kathleen Ng, managing director at the Center for Asia Private
Equity Research. The market “has not presented itself as an
attractive liquidity platform for foreign private-equity
investors to exit,” she said.  KKR (KKR) , the U.S. buyout firm co-founded by  Henry Kravis , last
year hired Ridha Wirakusumah, the former president director of
PT Bank Internasional Indonesia, as it continues to seek its
first investment in Indonesia.  “Our strategy is to find Indonesian companies where there
is not only an investment of capital needed, but there is also
the desire to partner with us to bring global best practices to
the business,” said Wirakusumah, director at KKR Asia and a
member of the firm’s Southeast Asia private-equity team. “This
type of value-add investing, while always important, is even
more critical in times of economic uncertainty.”  Falcon House  Yusuf, who was also president director of plantation firm
PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London Sumatra Indonesia, set up Falcon
House with O’Connor and Soota, who previously oversaw EMP-Daiwa
Capital Asia Ltd.’s Southeast Asia private-equity fund and has
been based in Indonesia for almost two decades.  Falcon House aims to raise $200 million in 2012, said
O’Connor, who was the head of Lehman’s business in Indonesia and
first lived in Jakarta from 1995 till 2001. Over the past
decade, investors profited from investments in distressed or
cheap assets, a boom in commodity prices and the scarcity of
capital, O’Connor said.  “Moving forward, returns will be less linear and more
challenging with these factors no longer driving returns,” said
the former banker, who was a member of  Lehman Brothers ’
Asia executive committee. “The two things that will likely
characterize successful private-equity investing in Indonesia
over the next 10 years will be relationships and the ability to
create change and transformation in Indonesian companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Idayu Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  