-- Philippine Deficit Widens as Government Spends to Aid Growth
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-01-25T10:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/philippine-deficit-widens-as-government-spends-to-aid-growth-2-.html
The  Philippines ’  budget deficit 
probably widened in December as the government increased
spending to bolster an economy that may have expanded at the
weakest pace last year since 2009.  The emerging budget deficit last year was 191.6 billion
pesos ($4.4 billion), Budget Secretary Butch Abad said in Manila
today after meeting with economic officials. The 11-month
shortfall was 96 billion pesos, a report showed last month,
indicating the gap doubled in a month. The economy probably grew
3.6 percent to 4 percent in 2011, Ruperto Majuca, assistant
director-general at the National Economic and Development
Authority, said today.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while luring investments in roads, airports, and
schools in an effort to boost growth to as much as 8 percent
annually. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  last week, the first cut since 2009, joining
 emerging markets  from Thailand to Indonesia in easing monetary
policy as a deteriorating global economy threatens growth.  “Fiscal policy, if it pans out more efficiently, will be a
very good complement to monetary policy, which will remain
accommodative,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “It is going to be a very
tough period ahead. Growth will be a lot more erratic, and it’s
not going to be just peculiar to the Philippines.”  Bonds, Peso  Benchmark bond yields due January 2018 climbed to the
highest level in more than three weeks after the report,
according to  Tradition Financial Services. The peso climbed to
a two-month high today, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  dropped for a second day.  The government forecasts the budget deficit will widen this
year to 279 billion pesos, or 2.6 percent of gross domestic
product, from 2 percent last year, Abad said today. He
reiterated the goal of maintaining the ratio at 2 percent from
2013 to 2016.  Fourth-quarter economic growth may have exceeded the 3.2
percent year-on-year expansion in the  third quarter  and be lower
than 5 percent, Majuca said. The government is scheduled to
release GDP data on Jan. 30.  Officials assumed a 6 percent to 7 percent gross domestic
product growth next year in planning the budget, Finance
Assistant Secretary Maria Teresa Habitan said today. Economic
officials maintained the forecast for the economy to expand 5
percent to 6 percent this year.  The government plans to increase revenue to 1.56 trillion
pesos this year and boost spending to 1.84 trillion pesos, Abad
said. The Bureau of Internal Revenue is tasked to collect 1.07
trillion pesos, while the Bureau of Customs is expected to raise
347 billion pesos, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  