-- Putin Ratchets Up Anti-U.S Rhetoric as Kremlin Race Grows
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-26T08:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/putin-says-u-s-seeks-vassals-not-allies-as-campaign-heats-up.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is stepping up rhetoric against the U.S. as his campaign
for the March 4 presidential election intensifies after the
biggest protests against his rule.  The U.S. “wants to control everything” and takes
decisions unilaterally on key questions, Putin said on a
campaign stop yesterday in the Siberian city of Tomsk, 3,100
kilometers (1,900 miles) east of Moscow. “Sometimes I get the
impression the U.S. doesn’t need allies, it needs vassals.”  Putin, 59, is seeking a new term in the Kremlin amid the
biggest challenge to his 12-year rule after fraud allegations at
parliamentary polls sparked mass protests. The Russian leader,
who has repeatedly accused the U.S. of interfering in other
countries’ affairs, said last week that reports by a state-owned
Moscow radio station supported American interests.  “The No. 1 reason Putin is doing this is elections,''   Jan Techau , director of the European Center of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Brussels, said yesterday in
a phone interview. ‘‘It’s pre-election saber-rattling. This is
vintage Putin.’’  Putin’s remarks added to anti-American rhetoric after a
senior member of his ruling  United Russia  party said Jan. 24
that new U.S. ambassador to Russia,  Michael McFaul , is trying to
fuel revolution by meeting with opposition leaders.  ‘Reset’ in Relations  Efforts to improve relations with the U.S. under the so-
called ‘‘reset’’ policy of President  Barack Obama  were
spearheaded by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who agreed in
September to make way for Putin’s return in March 4 elections.  Medvedev yesterday, while forecasting the disagreement
between  Russia  and the U.S. over American plans to station
missile-defense facilities in Europe would continue to bedevil
relations and would get much worse from 2018 to 2020.  ‘‘Medvedev’s departure is significant to the extent that
Putin has a specific attitude to American leaders: he doesn’t
trust them,”  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on
Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow, said yesterday by phone.
“The atmosphere will be less constructive.”  U.S.-Russia relations suffered a setback last year when the
two nations disagreed over the NATO military campaign that led
to the overthrow of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi and U.S.-led
attempts to censure  Syria  at the  United Nations  for its
crackdown on anti-government unrest, which Russia says is part
of another attempt at regime change.  Jackson-Vanik  While the U.S. administration has pledged to repeal the
Jackson-Vanik amendment, a Cold War-era law that barred
favorable trade relations with the communist  Soviet Union ,
American lawmakers have questioned annulling the measure and
easing trade with Russia.  The Obama administration aims to repeal the legislation
this spring, McFaul said on the radio station Ekho Moskvy
yesterday.  Keeping the amendment in force risks making U.S. companies
unable to take advantage of Russia’s pending entry into the
 World Trade Organization  and deprive the country of a potential
doubling of exports to Russia, according to a November report
from the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington .  Trade between the two countries rose 35 percent in 2010 to
$31.7 billion, according to the State Department.  Russia’s economy grew 4.2 percent in 2011, faster than the
previous year’s 4 percent expansion, Putin said Jan. 12. The 30-
stock Micex Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,498.79 yesterday, its
biggest daily advance since Jan. 17. The ruble surged to its
strongest level in more than two months, closing 0.5 percent
higher at 30.72 per dollar.  Missile Defense  The U.S. and its allies say the missile-defense system is
meant to protect against threats from outside  Europe , such as
 Iran . Russia says the shield will blunt its nuclear capability
and wants the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the U.S. to
sign a binding treaty stating the system is not aimed at their
defenses, something the Obama administration has refused to do.  Missile defense is “linked to the U.S. desire to
strengthen its position as the leader of the Western world,”
Putin said. “That’s why they don’t want to cooperate on an
equal basis, either with the Europeans or us.”  McFaul, who hosted Russian opposition activists at the U.S.
embassy last week, said Obama sent him to Russia to pursue the
“reset” policy, rejecting as “nonsense” the accusations that
he’s trying to interfere in Russian domestic politics.  Not the Point  “The point of the reset isn’t to prepare a revolution,”
McFaul said in an interview with the Kommersant newspaper
published yesterday.  Russian opposition groups, who accuse Putin’s party of
inflating its vote in December’s parliamentary elections to
about 50 percent from 30 percent, plan their next major protest
on Feb. 4, a month before the presidential vote.  McFaul, a former professor at  Stanford University  who was
the top White House adviser on Russian affairs before taking up
his current post, was pilloried last week on Russian state
television as aiming to export revolution.  “We want to understand if we are dealing with a new
concept of an ambassador’s role,” said Alexei Pushkov, head of
the Russian lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs
committee. “Is he an ambassador to the Russian Federation or in
part head of a non-commercial organisation promoting
democracy?” Pushkov said by phone yesterday.  Twitter Messages  A non-career diplomat, McFaul has been using Twitter Inc.
and Livejournal to get out his message, and posted links to the
blog of opposition leader Alexei Navalny.  “There obviously is a risk: the Russians can be pretty
rough on ambassadors they disapprove of, as I know,” said Tony Brenton, U.K. ambassador to Russia from 2004 to 2008, who was
hounded by pro-Kremlin youth activists after attending an
opposition conference.  “We and the U.S. have to be very careful,” Brenton said
yesterday in a phone interview. “We can’t be backing the
opposition because that would have counterproductive effects,
but what we can legitimately do is insist that Russia observes
its international commitments to run honest and fair elections,
to allow freedom of the press and freedom of opposition.”  Putin, who was president from 2000-2008, before handing
over to Medvedev for four years after serving the maximum two
consecutive terms permitted by the constitution, needs to win
more than half the vote for a first-round victory.  “The primary concern of the Russian elite is control of
the political process,” said Techau. “Now they’re losing
control of the political system and this kind of anti-U.S.
reaction shows just how nervous the Russian elite has become.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  