-- TransCanada Lobbying Tops $1.3 Million as It Pushes Keystone
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-25T23:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/transcanada-lobbying-tops-1-3-million-as-it-pushes-keystone.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the Calgary-based
company pushing a $7 billion pipeline from  Alberta ’s oil sands
to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast, spent $1.33 million on
Washington lobbyists last year.  The company hired two firms to help advance its Keystone XL
pipeline project on  Capitol Hill , according to public records
filed with the Senate. Bryan Cave LLP and McKenna, Long &
Aldridge LLP reported lobbying on the pipeline and other energy
issues.  “One of the dirty little secrets of lobbying, is that for
a relatively small amount of money in the scope of finance, you
can get a pretty good return on investment,” said Meredith McGehee, policy director for the Campaign Legal Center, a
Washington-based group that monitors political and campaign
spending. “It doesn’t mean you always win. It does mean you are
always in the game, and the game continues.”  TransCanada first registered to lobby Congress on Nov. 5,
2010, records show.  Congressional Republicans sought last year to expedite the
permitting process for the pipeline, which the company says
would create as many as 20,000 jobs, a number disputed by
environmental groups and the U.S. State Department.  Last month, Republicans succeeded in adding language to the
payroll-tax-cut extension agreement requiring President  Barack Obama  to decide on the pipeline within 60 days.  Obama Rejection  Obama rejected the permit on Jan. 18, saying the deadline
didn’t leave enough time to consider alternatives to the
original pipeline route, which went through the environmentally
sensitive Sand Hills region in  Nebraska .  The lawmakers now are backing a bill that would require the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to approve the permit
within 30 days, so long as it meets safety requirements.  The legislation, introduced by Representative  Lee Terry , a
Nebraska Republican, doesn’t give FERC adequate time to assess
the project, Jeffrey Wright, the agency’s director of the office
of energy projects, told a House energy subcommittee today. The
lobbying expenditure was reported earlier today by Politico.  The bill is H.R. 3548.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  