-- RBS to Lend More Than 300 Million Pounds to ‘Robust’ Renewables
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-25T11:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/rbs-to-lend-more-than-466-million-to-support-robust-renewables.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
said its loans to U.K. renewable-energy projects in 2012 will
probably top last year’s 300 million pounds ($466 million) on
expectation the industry will withstand slower economic growth.  Britain’s biggest state-owned bank is likely to lend more
to renewables this year than last, Andrew Buglass, head of
energy in RBS’s structured finance division, said in an
interview. “Generally as an asset class compared to others that
we are involved in, it is a very robust product.”  RBS has renewed its commitment to renewables after scaling
back loans to all energy projects following its 2008 government
bailout. The Edinburgh-based bank, now focusing its clean-energy
investment on the U.K., is continuing to fund the wind, solar
and biomass industries even after cutting jobs and selling
assets amid stumbling economic growth.  “RBS is one of the big lenders to renewable-energy
projects in the U.K. but is less active in the rest of  Europe 
than it was before the financial crisis,” said Angus McCrone, a
senior analyst at researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “Its
lending to the sector in Europe as a whole would certainly put
it in the top 20 commercial banks and possibly the top 10.”  Solid Cash  The bank is working to close four to six deals by the end
of this quarter with a combined value of as much as 150 million
pounds, Buglass said in  London . Renewables projects have
“predictable, solid cash flows and are underpinned by a very
good regulatory regime, specifically in the U.K.,” he said.  Britain’s  Renewables Obligation Certificate  system supports
clean-energy generation by awarding tradable credits, and
compels utilities to buy power from wind farms, biomass plants
and wave and tidal-energy projects.  Of the six deals targeted for this quarter, RBS is “fairly
confident” it will complete two to three, Buglass said. These
are in the solar, wind and biomass industries.  Some clean-energy projects in Europe have struggled for
financing in the past year as the sovereign-debt crisis and
tightening credit markets limit available funds. The 27-nation
 European Union  is sticking to clean-energy targets for  member
states , aiming for an average 20 percent share of energy from
renewable sources across the bloc by 2020.  Financing Costs  “Every bank out there has been affected by the euro zone
issues,” Buglass said. The cost of financing for banks has
increased “dramatically” since mid-2011, meaning some lenders
in Europe have lacked sterling and stopped lending to British
ventures, he said.  Before the credit squeeze there were 50 to 60 banks that
would lend to U.K. projects, and now there are about 15 to 20,
according to Buglass. The uncertainty is likely to continue as
Europe’s debt crisis shows no signs of being resolved, he said.  RBS shares have rallied  30 percent  this year as the bank
announced plans to cut about 4,800 jobs and divest unprofitable
assets. The lender said Jan. 12 it will sell or close its cash
equities, mergers advisory, corporate broking and equity capital
markets operations to reduce costs amid volatile markets.  In renewables, RBS will probably focus on biomass and wind
in 2012, Buglass said. The bank has seen a “surge” in biomass
developments after the U.K. reviewed its Renewables Obligation
banding in October, he said. Biomass plants generate power from
organic materials such as woodchips, municipal waste and straw.  The government’s review proposed greater subsidies for so-
called enhanced biomass co-firing generators and left incentives
for other forms of biomass power mostly unchanged, easing
uncertainty in the industry.  “To date we have financed about 6.5 billion pounds’ worth
of renewable projects globally, which is just under about 9
gigawatts of capacity,” Buglass said.  Among projects being considered by RBS, almost half are
developed by companies or people it’s worked with in the past,
Buglass said. The lender has previously worked with companies
including  Kedco Plc (KED) ,  Helius Energy Plc (HEGY)  and RidgeWind Ltd.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  