-- RBS Report, U.K. Hedge Bonuses, EU Data Privacy, Austria Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-25T13:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/rbs-report-u-k-hedge-bonuses-eu-data-privacy-compliance.html
A report on  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ’s near-collapse was changed to remove a section that
said  Fred Goodwin , the lender’s former chief executive officer,
“lacked the experience to run an international bank.”  The findings in the Financial Services Authority report
were altered when Goodwin’s lawyers were allowed to see the
document, Bill Knight, a lawyer who conducted an independent
review of the document, told a U.K. Parliament committee
yesterday. Knight said the change during the so-called
“Maxwellization process” was fair.  “The suggestion was that he lacked the experience to run
an international bank,” Knight told the  U.K. Treasury Select
Committee . “There was no evidence of a lack of competence.”  The FSA released the report into RBS’s finances in December
after the regulator was criticized by lawmakers for clearing
Goodwin and other officials of wrongdoing. Lawmakers said they
deserved a greater explanation of the circumstances that led to
RBS getting a 45.5 billion-pound ($70.9 billion) rescue by
taxpayers following the lender’s acquisition of ABN Amro Holding
and the 2008 financial crisis.  David Walker , the former chairman of  Morgan Stanley
International (MS)  who along with Knight conducted the independent
review of the FSA report at the request of the committee, said
that Goodwin did a poor job delegating authority and didn’t
always give the bank’s board “adequate risk information.”  Neither Knight nor Walker would be drawn in on questions
from the committee about whether the FSA report raised serious
enough concerns to strip Goodwin of his knighthood. U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said last week that it should be
reviewed.  A spokesman for Goodwin wasn’t immediately available to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Liam Parker, an FSA
spokesman, and Michael Strachan, an RBS spokesman, declined to
comment.  Compliance Policy  Hedge Fund, Private Equity Bonus Rules Considered by FSA  The U.K. Financial Services Authority may set bonus rules
specifically for hedge fund and private equity managers as it
works to implement European Union regulations.  The FSA may write “a remuneration code to apply
specifically to Alternative Investment Fund Managers, but
modeled closely on the existing code” that applies to banks and
other financial firms, the regulator said in a  statement  on its
website. While the FSA is obliged to comply with EU standards
set by the European Securities and Markets Authority, that
agency hasn’t yet completed them.  European finance ministers in 2010 approved a law, known as
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which gave
Paris-based ESMA power to set rules for  hedge funds  and private
equity firms, regulating their pay and access to EU investors.  The aim of the rules would be to ensure managers “control
risk-taking behavior by reducing the potential adverse impact of
poorly-defined remuneration schemes,” the FSA said in a
discussion paper. It’s seeking input on the plans from the
industry and the public.  The FSA said its existing bonus code, which it expanded to
include more than 2,700 firms at the end of 2010, may already be
compliant with the EU rules. Some U.K. funds are required to
disclose the size of their bonus pools for the previous year in
regulatory filings.  Companies Face Fines as Much as 2% of Sales Under EU Privacy Law  Companies face fines as high as 2 percent of yearly global
sales for losing personal data under an overhaul of European
Union privacy rules.  Data protection agencies in the EU’s 27 countries would
gain the power to sanction companies that violate requirements
for handling personal information proposed by the  European
Commission  today. The measures, which also target online-
advertising and social-networking sites, update the EU’s 17-
year-old data-protection policies.  The EU overhaul would also clamp down on data lapses such
as  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s six-day delay in warning customers about a cyber
attack that exposed more than 100 million customer accounts, the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. Industry
groups with members including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
have warned against overly strict data-privacy rules that may
stifle innovation.  Under the draft rules, serious violations, such as
processing sensitive data without an individual’s consent or
without any legal justification, may be punished with penalties
as high as 1 million euros ($1.3 million) or as much as 2
percent of a company’s yearly sales, the commission said. Less
serious offenses would be punished with smaller fines.  Separately, Google, owner of the world’s most popular
search engine, is introducing a privacy policy covering the
majority of its products to simplify guidelines for users.  Google, which has had separate policies for more than 70
products, said it will unify the approach for more than 60 of
them, including Android software for mobile phones, in a more-
readable format. The company also is reducing the number of
terms of service, conditions users agree to when accessing
Google products, and making them easier to read.  The  company , based in  Mountain View , California, is
grappling with increased government scrutiny amid concern that
the company needs to do more to safeguard customer privacy.
The changes will take effect on March 1. Google will preserve
some policies, for products such as Google Wallet and the Chrome
browser.  Google may have changes to its privacy policy reviewed by
Ireland’s data-protection agency. The agency will “be further
assessing the implications of the changes now that they are
launched to users,” Gary Davis, the country’s deputy data-
protection commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement.  Obama Creates Unit to Investigate Mortgage Misconduct by Banks  President  Barack Obama  said he will create a mortgage
crisis unit that includes federal and state officials to
investigate wrongdoing by banks related to real estate lending.  The president announced the unit in his State of the Union
speech yesterday after protests by the Campaign for a Fair
Settlement, a coalition of labor unions, consumer advocates and
political activists including  MoveOn.org . The group is calling
for a full investigation into bank home lending and the creation
and sale of mortgage-backed securities.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  will co-chair
the unit along with officials from the Justice Department,
Securities and Exchange Commission and Internal Revenue Service.  For months, state and federal officials have been
negotiating with the five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . -- to settle claims they used so-
called robo-signing and faulty documentation to justify
foreclosures.  The deal with the banks could be worth as much $25 billion
in loan forgiveness, interest-rate reductions and other aid for
homeowners, said a person familiar with negotiations who
declined to be identified because the terms weren’t public.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Erste, RZB May Need Less EBA Capital as Austria Backs Banks  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA)  may have to raise less capital to meet requirements by the
European Banking Authority as their home regulator backed their
demand to recognize hybrids.  Austria’s Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator will argue the EBA
should recognize non-voting capital that the Austrian lenders
sold to private investors in 2009 in a combined deal together
with state aid, the FMA’s two co-heads, Helmut Ettl and Kurt
Pribil, said in Vienna yesterday. The final decision about the
capital recognition is up to the EBA, they said.  The EBA told banks in October to increase their core
reserves to 9 percent of risk-weighted assets by the end of June
as part of measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s
fiscal woes. It excluded hybrid capital from the core reserves
definition, counting them only if provided in state aid measures
since 2008. European Central Bank policy makers including
Austria’s Ewald Nowotny and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch have joined
banking lobby groups in saying that those capital requirements
may curb economic growth in the euro area.  Ettl, a member of the EBA’s 29-strong board of supervisors,
said the body will “evaluate” its entire recapitalization
exercise in the coming days together with bodies including the
European Systemic Risk Board, whose chairman is ECB President
Mario Draghi. The review will focus on whether the measure
reduces the availability of credit for the European economy to a
degree where it crimps growth.  For more, click here.  SEC Gains Judgment Against New Jersey Investment Adviser Chiaese  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it
obtained final judgments against New Jersey-based investment
adviser Carlo Chiaese, his firm C.G.C. Advisors LLC and his
wife, Micol Chiaese, in an enforcement lawsuit claiming they
misappropriated at least $2.4 million from clients.  The SEC announced the civil judgment in a statement on its
website yesterday. Chiaese was sentenced to 58 months in prison
and ordered to pay more than $2.4 million in restitution last
year on related criminal claims, the SEC said.  Interviews/Speeches  European Commissioner, IIF Leaders Discuss Greek Debt  European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs
Olli Rehn and Danish Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager talked
about efforts between Greece and its private-sector creditors to
reach a debt-swap agreement and the fiscal outlook in Spain.  For the Rehn video, click here.  Separately,  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance , Walter
Kielholz, chairman of  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and vice chairman of the
IIF’s board of directors, and Philip Suttle, IIF chief
economist, spoke at a news conference in Zurich about global
capital flows and Greek debt-swap negotiations.  The IIF’s Frank Vogel and Jeffrey Anderson also spoke.  For the Zurich video, click here.  Volcker Rule Changes in Congress Will Have to Wait, Corker Says  U.S. financial companies lobbying to change the Volcker
rule ban on proprietary trading will have to wait until 2013
because the upcoming elections will make this a “non-year in
Congress,” Senator  Bob Corker  said yesterday.  Political pressure will make it nearly impossible to
generate support from Senate Democrats or President Barack
Obama’s administration to advance any proposals for changing the
Dodd-Frank Act measure, Corker said at a  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce  conference on the Volcker rule in  Washington .  “We need to revisit our approach here, and I’m hopeful in
the months and years ahead we will do so,” said Corker, a
Tennessee Republican who serves on the  Senate Banking Committee .  The  Federal Reserve  and other agencies have faced criticism
over a 298-page Volcker rule proposal that has been faulted by
lawmakers, banks and international regulators as too complex and
potentially damaging for financial markets. Regulators are
seeking public comment on the proposal.  The rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed it as an adviser to Obama, would ban banks from
proprietary trading while allowing them to continue short-term
trades for hedging or market-making. It also would limit banks’
investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010
requires that the rule be in place by July 21.  Proposed changes would encounter opposition from Democratic
drafters of the rule who have argued in favor of strengthening
it.  Borg Says EU Transaction Tax Could Drive Up Borrowing Costs  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said the European
Union’s proposed financial transaction tax might drive up
borrowing costs by making it more expensive to trade bonds in
the secondary market.  “Obviously people would demand a better return if they’re
going to own an asset that is less liquid,” Borg told reporters
today in Brussels. “This would increase the financing costs for
countries” that already have a “deep problem when it comes to
indebtedness.”  The European Commission, which drafts legislation for the
EU, has proposed a tax that it says could raise 57 billion euros
($74 billion) a year. The tax would cover a wide range of
trading. Financial institutions would pay in their home
countries, regardless of where transactions take place.  As proposed, the plan has the potential to hurt more than
it helps, Borg said yesterday. “The negative growth impact is
so large and we have such a high tax rate in Sweden that it
would actually be a loss of revenues,” he said, recommending
that the EU consider other methods to levy the financial system
instead of the current proposal.  Borg also criticized Greece for not doing enough to comply
with the terms of its  International Monetary Fund  and EU rescue
package.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 