-- Stanford, RBS, Commerzbank, J&J, Roche, BP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-25T11:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/rbs-highland-commerzbank-j-j-roche-ge-ubs-in-court-news.html
R. Allen Stanford engaged in a long-
term scheme to defraud people who bought certificates of deposit
from his Antigua bank, a U.S. prosecutor told jurors at the
opening of the financier’s criminal trial in Houston.  Stanford, 61, was the ringleader of a $7 billion investment
fraud, the U.S. said in a 14-count indictment accusing him of
mail fraud and wire fraud, crimes that carry maximum sentences
of 20 years in prison. He’s also charged with conspiracy to
commit mail fraud and wire fraud and to obstruct a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission probe.  “I plead not guilty to every count,” Stanford, wearing a
light gray plaid suit and a white dress shirt and no necktie,
told the jury yesterday.  Stanford has been in federal custody since being indicted
in June 2009. His trial was postponed three times because of
changes to his legal defense team, the after-effects of a
jailhouse beating and a subsequent prescription-drug addiction.  Stanford stole from investors “so that he could live the
lifestyle of a billionaire,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg
Costa said in his opening statement. “He told them lie after
lie after lie.”  The scheme stretched over 20 years of “lying, cheating and
bribing,” Costa told the jury of 10 men and five women,
including three alternates.  “Mr. Stanford’s financial empire was real and did make a
lot of money and did pay every penny of what was owed to
depositors for 22 years,” Robert Scardino, one of Stanford’s
court-appointed lawyers, told the jury in his own opening
remarks.  Scardino and defense lawyer Ali Fazel have previously said
they will use the records of Houston-based Stanford Group Co.
and Stanford International Bank Ltd. to prove their client never
intended to defraud anyone.  No investor lost money until the SEC sued Stanford and
obtained a court order to take control of his businesses in
February 2009, the defense has said.  Jury selection began Jan. 23 at Houston’s Bob Casey Federal
Courthouse with U.S. District Judge David Hittner’s interview of
80 prospective panelists, many of whom said they had read or
heard reports about the case and some of whom told the judge
they didn’t know if they could be impartial.  Of the 15 men and women selected yesterday, nine are white,
three are black and three are Hispanic.  Among them are a retail optician, an environmental
engineer, two accountants, a kindergarten teacher, a chef, a
land surveyor, a pawn broker and a retired hairdresser.  The trial may last about six weeks, Hittner said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The civil
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  RBS Seeks to Block $100 Million Highland Suit on Failed CDO  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  asked a U.K. judge to
block a $100 million lawsuit filed by Highland Capital
Management LP in Texas that accuses the lender of fraud and
unjust enrichment over a failed collateralized-debt obligation.  “What we have here are English proceedings” that have
been running “for nearly three years,” John Nicholls, the
attorney for the lender majority-owned by the British
government, said in a London court yesterday. The bank wants the
court to block Highland from suing in Texas.  The hedge-fund firm claims that at the height of the credit
market freeze that resulted from the bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , RBS used an accounting provision to
terminate the Highland CDO and seize its underlying loans,
according to court papers related to the Texas claim. In
November 2008, Edinburgh-based RBS held a “sham auction” to
ensure it could get the loans at “bargain basement prices” and
make a profit, the fund claimed.  Judge  Michael Burton , who is overseeing the London trial,
earlier ruled the bank’s termination of the deal was lawful
because “the autumn 2008 financial crash ended any chance of
public interest in such securities,” he said in his judgment.  For more, click here.  Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Faces Drapkin Back-Pay Claim  Donald Drapkin, the longtime associate of billionaire
 Ronald Perelman , told a jury that he never thought his
colleagues at Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. would
try to cheat him out of $16 million.  Drapkin took the witness stand yesterday as his trial
against MacAndrews & Forbes got under way in Manhattan federal
court. Drapkin is suing for compensation that he says the firm
failed to pay him after he left in 2007.  “I never expected to be at odds with Mr. Perelman,”
Drapkin, the firm’s former vice chairman, testified. “I never
thought they would try to screw me. They were my friends for 20
years.”  Drapkin, a dealmaker at the firm, says he was hired by
Perelman in the 1980s to serve as vice chairman and to act as
in-house investment banker. By 2006, the relationship between
the two men had deteriorated so sharply that Drapkin’s salary
had been slashed and his responsibilities cut, according to
court papers.  In court yesterday, Drapkin’s lawyer, Elkan Abramowitz,
told jurors in his opening statement that Drapkin agreed to
leave the firm in return for millions of dollars in severance
and from the sale of his stock. Drapkin has yet to be paid $16
million, Abramowitz said.  “It’s a case about fairness, about whether a company,
MacAndrews, which Donald Drapkin helped run for 20 years, can
renege on its promise for the flimsiest of excuses,” Abramowitz
said.  Steven Kobre, a lawyer for MacAndrews & Forbes, told jurors
in his opening statement that the firm paid Drapkin millions of
dollars when he left in 2007. It also agreed to pay him millions
more if he promised not to induce other employees to quit and to
return all company documents.  “Mr. Drapkin willfully disregarded his obligations,”
Kobre said.  According to Kobre, Drapkin tried to encourage Eric Rose, a
surgeon who was executive vice president of life sciences, to
leave MacAndrews & Forbes. Drapkin and his personal assistant
also kept thousands of documents on a company computer given to
them when they left.  The cases are Drapkin v. Mafco Consolidated Group, 09-
cv-1285, and MacAndrews & Forbes LLC v. Drapkin, 09-cv-4513,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Eurohypo to Lose Second Profit Certificates Appeals Case  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s  Eurohypo (EHY)  unit is likely to lose a second
case over so-called profit certificates filed by a U.S. hedge
fund, a judge said at a hearing yesterday.  The Frankfurt appeals court will probably rule in favor of
QVT Financial LP, which brought the case, Associate Judge Klaus
Maier said in a preliminary assessment. QVT won in a lower court
over certificates originally issued by Hypothekenbank in Essen
AG and is also likely to win on those issued by Rheinische
Hypothekenbank AG, Maier said.  Commerzbank (CBK)  acquired Eurohypo in 2007 and agreed to cover
any losses by its unit under the terms of a so-called profit-
transfer and domination accord. After being bailed out following
the financial crisis, Commerzbank stopped the payments in 2009.  Eurohypo attorney Manfred Hechtl argued the certificate
owners profited from the fact that Commerzbank took over
Eurohypo. Had Eurohypo remained on its own, it would have
suffered from the sovereign debt crisis, leaving investors with
losses, he said.  QVT attorney Josef Broich rejected the argument, saying it
turned the situation upside down.  “The real fortune hunter here is Commerzbank,” Broich
said, adding that by illegally withholding payments on the
securities, the lender pushed their trading price down and at
the same time took advantage by buying them back cheaply.  The court scheduled a ruling for Feb. 7.  Yesterday’s case is OLG Frankfurt am Main, 5 U 92/11.  For more, click here.  J&J Unit Didn’t Hide Levaquin Risks, Company Lawyer Says  Johnson & Johnson  properly warned of the risks of its
antibiotic Levaquin and shouldn’t be held liable for tendon
injuries sustained by a 78-year-old man, a company lawyer said
at the end of a trial in Minneapolis.  Clifford Straka, who blew out two Achilles tendons after
taking the drug for pneumonia, sued J&J and its Ortho-McNeil
Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. Straka said his doctor wasn’t aware
when she prescribed the drug that Levaquin was linked to an
increased risk of tendon damage in elderly patients.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, has
denied any failure to warn and contended that Straka needed
Levaquin to treat the pneumonia.  “The label from day one in 1996 was adequate,” James
Irwin, J&J’s lawyer, said in closing arguments yesterday. “The
information was out there and available to the doctors and
everyone else.”  The lawsuit is the third federal case to go to trial in
Minnesota alleging J&J and its unit, now known as  Janssen
Pharmaceuticals , downplayed the risks of the antibiotic to boost
sales. J&J lost the first, a jury verdict for $1.8 million in
2010, and won the second last year. The company also won the
first state case in October, when a New Jersey jury rejected the
claims of two plaintiffs.  J&J is facing more than 3,700 claims involving Levaquin in
state and federal courts, Bill Foster, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail. The lone trial loss has been appealed and 43 cases
have been dismissed, he said.  The case is Straka v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-05742, combined
for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability Litigation, 08-
md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Citigroup Sued Over $1 Billion Sub-Prime CDO Investment  Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (C)  was sued by Loreley Financing
over almost $1 billion in collateralized debt obligations backed
by residential mortgages.  Loreley, a group of nine Jersey-based investment companies
formed to invest in CDOs, claimed in a complaint filed in state
court in Manhattan yesterday that Citigroup lied about the
riskiness of the residential mortgage-backed securities, or
RMBS, underlying the investments. The CDOs are now worthless,
Loreley said.  Loreley claimed that from September 2006 to July 2007
Citigroup sold it $965 million of notes in 11 CDOs and profited
by charging fees and unloading loans likely to lose money.
Loreley seeks an order rescinding its purchase of the notes and
the return of its $965 billion investment.  “Citigroup devised and implemented several fraudulent
schemes through which it was able to mitigate its exposure to
the impending collapse of the subprime market even as it
continued to earn lucrative fees securitizing subprime RMBS and
arranging and marketing CDOs stocked with these increasingly
toxic assets to unsuspecting investors such as plaintiff,”
Loreley claimed.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said, “We believe the suit is without merit.”  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 3 Ltd. v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 650202/2012, New York State
Supreme Court (New York County).  MetLife, Prudential Accused of Fraud in Illinois Suit  MetLife Inc. and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  were accused of
“massive fraud” in a whistle-blower lawsuit filed in Illinois
alleging they failed to turn over unclaimed life insurance funds
to the state.  Total Asset Recovery Services LLC, an Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company that researches unclaimed funds held by
state treasurers on behalf of individuals, said in a complaint
that the insurers didn’t turn over money from 4,766 unclaimed
life insurance policies held by people that they knew or should
have known were deceased.  Life insurance funds not claimed for more than five years
after they are payable under the terms of the policy are deemed
abandoned and become state property under Illinois law, lawyers
for the company said in a complaint filed in state court in
Chicago yesterday. When MetLife and Prudential converted from
mutual life insurers to public companies in 1999 and 2000, they
mailed policyholders a share of profits they had accumulated,
though some were undeliverable and returned, the lawyers said.  Using various databases, the company found that unclaimed
funds from policyholders who died between 1982 and 2004 weren’t
turned over to the state, the lawyers said. They estimated that
the amount of the funds may exceed $524 million.  The lawsuit says the insurers could be liable for as much
as $26 million in penalties to Illinois and damages worth treble
the amount of funds that were withheld. Total Asset Recovery
seeks between 15 percent and 30 percent of the damages or
settlement amount. The lawsuit claims violations of Illinois’
False Claims Whistleblower Reward and Protection Act, which
allows people who disclose fraud against the state to share in
the proceeds from the lawsuit.  John Calagna, a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, and
Bob DeFillippo, a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, didn’t return voice-mail messages seeking comment
about the lawsuit.  The case is Total Asset Recovery Services Inc. v  Metlife
Inc. (MET)  2011L001225.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ackman to Indemnify Rail CEO Pick as Rival Goes to Court  Investor  William Ackman  said he will shield his choice to
run  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  against a possible loss of
benefits after the retired executive’s former employer suspended
pension and other payments.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  said Jan. 23 that ex-Chief
Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison , Ackman’s pick to lead rival
Canadian Pacific, had breached or planned to breach his
contractual obligations. Ackman said Canadian National’s
litigation over Harrison’s benefits was “frivolous.”  Harrison, 67, is at the center of a three-way struggle. As
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP prods Canadian
Pacific to hire him, Canadian National is moving to halt an
annual pension of $1.5 million and additional payments for a
total of $40 million if Harrison joins the smaller carrier.  “We’re going to indemnify him from any lawsuits he suffers
as a result of this,” Ackman said in an interview. “And we
have done our homework. He has not breached his agreements, and
therefore we don’t expect there will be exposure to us on the
indemnity.”  Canadian National has “reasonable grounds” to believe
that Harrison “breached and intends to breach his contractual
undertakings,” according to an e-mailed statement. The
Montreal-based railroad asked a federal judge in Chicago to
declare its actions “reasonable and lawful,” and determine
whether the facts support its assertion that Harrison breached
his agreement.  “We don’t just throw around $40 million,” Ackman said in
the interview. We don’t expect to have to make any payments
under this indemnity because the lawsuit’s completely
frivolous.’’  Canadian Pacific already has rebuffed Ackman’s quest to
install Harrison, and its board has reiterated support for
incumbent CEO Fred Green. Ackman is planning a proxy fight to
elect new directors.  “This suit is only about money,” said Gregory Joseph, a
New York lawyer for Harrison. Joseph said Harrison
“scrupulously” honored a two-year non-compete agreement with
Canadian National after retiring in December 2009. “Canadian
National is not seeking to prevent Mr. Harrison from accepting a
position at Canadian Pacific, should one someday be offered,”
Joseph said.  The case is Canadian National Railway Co. v. Harrison,
12-00493, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more, click here.  Roche Denies Settling Raptiva Claims; First Trial Set for June  Roche Holdings AG (ROG)  denied settling lawsuits that say its
Raptiva psoriasis drug caused lethal infections and said it’s
proceeding to the first trial of the claims in June.  Mark Lanier , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, earlier said
Roche’s Genentech unit had settled. He later called that
statement “in error and wishful thinking.”  Genentech  was sued in state court in California over
allegations that Raptiva caused Stephen Johnson’s death. The 46-
year-old Louisiana businessman took the drug to treat a skin
condition. The Johnson family is seeking $15 million in
compensatory damages along with “several hundred million
dollars” in punitive damages, according to plaintiffs’ lawyers.  “Genentech has not settled the Stephen Johnson lawsuit,”
Nadine Pinell, a spokeswoman for the South San Francisco,
California-based company, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “The trial in this matter is set to begin on June 4,
2012.”  Genentech began taking Raptiva off the U.S. and European
markets in April 2009 after three psoriasis patients were
diagnosed with  progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy , or
PML, a rare, incurable brain infection. The month before the
withdrawal, Basel, Switzerland-based Roche completed a $46.8
billion  buyout  of the biotech company.  “I was premature and the case is now on the docket for
June,” Lanier said. “They have indicated we are going to
trial.”  The case is Johnson v. Genentech Inc., RG 10-494957,
California Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  General Electric Loses IRS Appeal on Dutch Bank Tax Benefits  General Electric Co. (GE)  lost a U.S. challenge of its 2009
victory in a battle with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service over
tax benefits from a partnership structure with Dutch banks.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York yesterday reversed an
October 2009 ruling by a federal judge in Connecticut that
concluded GE’s arrangement with a group of Dutch banks in the
1990s was legitimate. In its ruling yesterday, the court said
that the IRS properly imposed a monetary penalty against a
General Electric subsidiary for substantially understating its
income taxes for 1997 and 1998.  GE, the world’s largest lessor of aircraft, set up the
Castle Harbour partnership in 1993 with Dutch banks including
ING Bank NV and Rabo Merchant Bank NV. Under the terms of the
transaction, the GE subsidiary received most of the actual
leasing income. For tax purposes, 98 percent of the taxable
income was allocated to the banks and wasn’t subject to U.S.
income taxes.  The arrangement shifted about $310 million in income from
leases on old airplanes to the banks and saved GE about $62
million over a five-year period.  The IRS subsequently determined that the arrangement was a
“sham,” and Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE paid the
government the $62 million, according to a 2009 ruling. The
partnership then sued to challenge the IRS claim that the
partnership structure had no business purpose other than
reducing tax expenses.  “This decision shows that our courts will not allow large
corporations to use complex disguises to get improper tax
breaks,” John DiCicco, acting assistant attorney general for
the Justice Department’s Tax Division, said in a statement. “In
fact, companies that avoid paying their fair share of the tax
burden by engaging in these types of games are setting
themselves up for substantial penalties in addition to the taxes
they should have paid in the first place.”  “We are disappointed that the Court of Appeals overturned
the trial court’s most recent favorable decision,” GE said in
an e-mailed statement. “This new ruling has no impact on GE’s
current operations, nor will it have any adverse financial
impact. We continue to analyze the court’s opinion and our
options.”  The case is TIFD II-D Inc. v. United States of America,
10-70, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  BP (BP/) ’s McKay to Be First Witness at Gulf Oil Spill Trial  BP America Inc.’s chairman and president, Lamar McKay, will
be the first witness at the February trial to determine
liability for the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, plaintiffs’
lawyers said.  “Mr. McKay should be instructed to be present and ready to
testify immediately upon completion of the opening statements,”
lawyers for businesses and property owners said in a Jan. 20
letter to the company’s attorney Andrew Langan. The letter was
filed yesterday in federal court in New Orleans.  McKay, the highest-ranking U.S. executive of  BP Plc (BP\) , “will
be on the stand for the first two days that trial testimony is
taken,” attorneys James Roy and Stephen Herman said in the
letter. Mark Bly, a BP safety official, will also be on the
witness stand in the first week of trial or by the beginning of
the second week, Roy and Herman said.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits from businesses
and coastal property owners against BP, its partners and
contractors, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded, and Halliburton Co., which provided cementing services
to the project.  The U.S. also sued BP, Transocean and  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , which owned 25 percent of the well, in December 2010,
alleging violations of federal pollution laws.  The lawsuits are consolidated for pretrial processing by
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. Barbier
scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to determine which
companies share blame for the explosion.  Scott Dean, a BP spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and
call for comment.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  