-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Fluctuate Before Auction, Fed’s Rate Projections
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-01-25T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/treasury-10-year-yield-is-near-6-week-high-before-fed-gives-rate-estimates.html
Treasury longer-term securities
fluctuated before the U.S. sells $35 billion in five-year notes
as Federal Reserve policy makers prepare to give forecasts for
borrowing costs for the first time.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were at almost a six-week
high as most economists in a Bloomberg News survey said they
didn’t expect the  Federal Open Market Committee  to announce more
asset purchases today. The U.S. sold $35 billion in two-year
notes yesterday and will sell $29 billion of seven-year debt
tomorrow.  “The five-year auction could be a little more volatile
than normal because of the FOMC,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed
income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of
21 primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “The
FOMC meeting is different and it’s throwing a curve at the
marketplace. People are not sure how to interpret the new
information.”  Yields on 10-year notes were little changed at 2.06 percent
at 10:58 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2 percent securities maturing in November 2021
traded at 99 15/32. Yields on 30-year bonds rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.15 percent.  The FOMC plans to release a policy statement at 12:30 p.m.
in Washington after a two-day meeting. At 2 p.m., the central
bank for the first time will release forecasts from FOMC
participants for the main  interest rate , and Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will hold a press conference at 2:15 p.m.  Fed Buying  Fed policy makers will probably buy mortgage bonds if the
economy warrants more easing, with purchases of all debt
totaling $500 billion, according to economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Forty-six percent of economists say a new round of bond
buying would consist entirely of mortgage-backed securities,
while 35 percent predict it would also include Treasuries. None
of the 56 economists in the survey expect the central bank would
purchase only Treasuries.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell in December from a 19-month high. The  index  of
pending home sales decreased 3.5 percent, more than projected,
after a 7.3 percent gain the prior month, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 1 percent drop, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bernanke’s ‘Blunting’  Bernanke said in a Jan. 4 letter to Congress that housing
is “blunting” the impact of a target rate of virtually zero
and impeding economic growth. By purchasing more mortgage bonds,
Bernanke would aim to cut the cost of home loans, spurring
refinancing and sales of residential properties. Most economists
said they don’t expect the Fed to announce more asset purchases
today.  “We expect the rate guidance in the policy statement to
move the timetable for current accommodation well beyond
mid-2013 and into 2014,” Peter Goves and Nishay Patel, fixed-
income strategists at Citigroup Inc. in  London , wrote in an e-
mailed report today.  The U.S. will sell five-year securities in the second of
three note auctions this week. The debt being sold today yielded
0.92 percent in pre-auction trading, versus the record low of
0.88 percent at the prior sale Dec. 20.  Investors  bid  for 2.86 times the amount offered in
December, matching the average for the past 10 monthly auctions.  Indirect bidders,  the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 50.6 percent of the notes, the
most in 16 months.  Bid-to-Cover  Treasury five-year notes have lost 0.2 percent this year as
of yesterday, compared with a 0.8 percent decline for the
broader market, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Yesterday, the U.S. two-year auction’s bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing orders with the amount of debt
offered, was 3.75, compared with an average of 3.43 for the
previous 10 sales.  Demand for Treasuries has remained strong and an increase
in yields has been limited amid the European sovereign-debt
crisis.  The  European Central Bank  remains firmly opposed to any
restructuring of its Greek bond holdings as the debt was
acquired for monetary policy purposes, according to two people
familiar with the Governing Council’s stance.  While the ECB faces pressure to join private-sector
investors in taking losses on Greek debt, the central bank sees
this as potentially damaging to confidence in the institution if
it were to take part, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  ‘Greece Problem’  “In the short term, you can buy Treasuries because the
Greece problem isn’t solved yet,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an
economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
 Japan ’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets. “Longer-
term, I don’t recommend buying. The  U.S. economy , even the
housing market, is stronger than expected.”  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 74 basis
points less than the euro interbank offered rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure has tightened from minus 162.5 basis points on
Nov. 30, with a negative figure showing that European banks pay
a premium to swap into dollar-based funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  