-- Treasury Five-Year Note Yield Falls to Record on Fed Interest Rate Pledge
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-25T22:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/treasuries-extend-gain-after-fed-says-rates-to-stay-low-amid-unemployment.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing the
five-year note yield to a record low, after Federal Reserve
officials unexpectedly said their benchmark  interest rate  will
stay low until at least late 2014.  U.S. government debt  pared gains after the release of
forecasts by Federal Open Market Committee participants for the
first time showed three of the 17 members said the Fed should
raise rates in 2012 and three said tighten in 2013. The Treasury
sold $35 billion of five-year notes at higher-than-average
demand prior to the disclosure of the forecasts.  “This was a very dovish statement,” said Gary Pollack,
head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private
Wealth Management unit in New York, which manages $12 billion in
bonds. “They are pushing out rate hikes till at least the end
of 2014, longer than what the market was preparing for. It shows
that they don’t think the strength in the economy is strong
enough where it will cause an increase in inflationary
pressures, so that’s positive for fixed-income investors.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The  yield  on the
current five-year note fell 10 basis points to 0.79 percent
after touching the record low of 0.76 percent.  Treasury  yields  dropped as the Fed extended the horizon on
its pledge made Aug. 9 to keep its benchmark interest rate at a
record low level at least through mid-2013. The FOMC has left
its target for overnight loans between banks in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Break-Even Rate  Policy makers said growth in U.S. gross domestic product
centered around 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from 2.5
percent to 2.9 percent in November. Most expect inflation on the
personal consumption expenditures index between 1.4 percent to
1.8 percent, down from 1.4 percent to 2 percent in November.  The  difference  between rates on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a reflection of
traders’ outlook known as the break-even rate, rose to 1.78
percentage points, the highest since Nov. 15.  “A more dovish and stimulative Fed means that they are
risking inflation in order to get the  unemployment rate  down,
which is causing break-evens to rally,” said Michael Pond, co-
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Bernanke, speaking at a news conference after the
statements, said that the option of further large-scale bond
purchases is still “on the table.”  ‘Case’ for Stimulus  “If inflation is going to remain below target for an
extended period and employment progress” is very slow, then
“there is a case” for additional monetary stimulus, he said.  The Fed said it would continue to extend the average
maturity of its $2.6 trillion securities portfolio, a move
dubbed by traders Operation Twist. The Fed also maintained its
policy of reinvesting maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. debt  rose earlier after the Treasury’s five-year notes
auction drew a yield of 0.899 percent, compared with a forecast
of 0.919 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 primary
dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.17, the highest since May, versus an average of 2.863 for the
previous 10 sales.  “We’ve cheapened up in recent days, making the sector more
attractive,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist
in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a primary dealer.
“Investors are still hunting for yield.”  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 43.4 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 43.7 percent for the past 10 sales.  Second of Three  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.1. percent
of the notes, compared with an average of 11.3 percent at the
last 10 auctions.  Today’s auction was the second of three note sales totaling
$99 billion this week. The U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year
notes yesterday and will auction $29 billion of seven-year
securities tomorrow.  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s  current coupon  30-year fix-rate
mortgage bond declined to 2.8 percent today, the lowest since
Jan. 19, as investors bet the Fed will continue easing. The
yield declined to 81 basis points more than 10-year U.S.
government debt, near the tightest so-called spread since May.  U.S government securities have lost 0.8 percent in 2012,
the most since a 2.2 percent loss in the first few weeks of
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Treasuries fell 3.7 percent in 2009, the only year since 1999
they didn’t post gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  