-- Gingrich Catching Up With Romney, Poll Shows
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/rising-gingrich-catching-up-with-romney-in-florida-poll-shows.html
A surging  Newt Gingrich  has the
momentum in a tight race with  Mitt Romney  in Florida, a poll of
Republicans planning to vote in the state’s Jan. 31 presidential
primary shows.  Romney has 36 percent support while Gingrich is backed by
34 percent in the survey released today by Hamden, Connecticut-
based  Quinnipiac University .  The survey of 601 likely Republican primary voters
conducted from Jan. 19-23 shows increased support for Gingrich
following his 12 percentage point victory over of Romney in the
Jan. 21 South Carolina primary. Gingrich led Romney by 6 points
among voters polled after the South Carolina contest while
Romney led by 11 points among voters surveyed before.  “Gingrich’s South Carolina victory clearly gives him a
boost in  Florida ,” Peter A. Brown, the assistant director of
the university’s polling institute, said in a news release
accompaning the poll. “The question is whether there is more of
that to come, or whether any bump from a previous victory will
dissipate.”  Brown termed the Florida race “essentially a dead heat,”
and said Romney and Gingrich are in a “two-man race” in the
state, where the primary winner will receive all of the state’s
50 convention delegates. Former Pennsylvania U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum , the winner of the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, has 13 percent
in today’s poll and Texas U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  has 10
percent.  Previous Polls  Romney led Gingrich 36 percent to 24 percent in Florida in
a Quinnipiac poll released Jan. 9, the day before Romney won the
New Hampshire primary by 16 points.  In a sign of the race’s volatility, Gingrich ran ahead of
Romney, 35 percent to 22 percent, in a Quinnipiac poll released
Dec. 8.  Today’s poll today shows that Florida Republicans see
Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, as a better steward
of the economy and a stronger general election candidate than
Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker. They see Gingrich,
though, as better-prepared to serve as chief executive.  Romney led Gingrich by 17 percentage points on handling the
economy and by 14 points on who is best able to defeat President
 Barack Obama . Gingrich led Romney by 19 points on “having the
knowledge and experience necessary to be a good president.”  Gingrich also led by 27 points on handling foreign policy.  According to the poll, 61 percent said they have decided on
a candidate while 38 percent said they could change their mind
before next week’s primary.  Television Advertising  Gingrich rose in Florida even as Romney and his allies
blanketed the state with television advertisements over the past
few weeks. Romney and a political committee backing his
candidacy spent $6.9 million on broadcast television ads through
Jan. 23, according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks advertising. No other Republican candidate
aired television ads through then, CMAG data show.  Winning Our Future, a political action committee supporting
Gingrich while operating independently of his campaign, bought
$6 million of advertising time in the state yesterday and
released an ad painting Romney as aligned with Obama, said  Rick Tyler , a strategist for the group.  The Quinnipiac poll has a margin of error of plus or minus
4 percentage points. The margins of error were plus or minus 6.2
percentage points for the 254 voters surveyed before the South
Carolina results, and plus or minus 5.3 percentage points for
the 347 voters contacted after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  