-- Roche Makes Hostile $5.7 Billion Offer for Illumina to Bolster Diagnostics
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n ,   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-01-25T21:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/roche-makes-hostile-5-7-billion-offer-for-illumina-to-bolster-diagnostics.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  offered $5.7
billion in a hostile bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  to bolster sales of
gene-mapping equipment. The target’s shares climbed above the
bid price as investors speculated Roche will have to raise it.  Roche today proposed paying $44.50 a share for Illumina, 18
percent more than yesterday’s closing price. It will put the
offer directly to shareholders after the San Diego-based company
was “unwilling to participate in substantive discussions,”
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs, said in a statement.  Roche would gain technology for reading the genetic makeup
of tumors, potentially allowing the company to offer treatment
specific to individual patients. The drugmaker will have to
raise its bid as it did in prevailing in two previous
unsolicited offers since 2007, said Birgit Kulhoff, a Zurich-
based manager at Rahn & Bodmer Co. who owns Illumina shares.  “Offering $44.50 probably won’t satisfy Illumina
management and shareholders,” said Kulhoff. “If I look at the
offer through the glasses of Roche shareholders, they are
already offering a very high multiple.”  Roche made its interest in acquiring Illumina known to the
company on Dec. 13, according to filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, formally offering $40 a share on Jan. 3.
Illumina’s board rejected that offer on Jan. 19, Roche said in
the filing.  Shares Surge  Illumina surged 46 percent to $55.15 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day gain in almost 12 years. Before
today, the stock had fallen 52 percent from a record $77.88 on
July 6. Roche fell 2.8 percent to 158.40 Swiss francs in Zurich.
It was the biggest single-day decline in two months.  The Swiss drugmaker has “no intention” of raising its
bid, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan, 44, said today on a
conference call with reporters. The bid is “really attractive
and compelling” and offers “full and fair value,” Schwan
said.  Schwan, an Austrian citizen, was head of diagnostics in
2007 when he and then-Chairman and CEO Franz Humer made a
hostile offer for U.S. diagnostics company Ventana Medical
Systems Inc. Humer, 65, yielded the chief executive role to
Schwan in 2008, and the two men worked together on the $46.8
billion acquisition of  Genentech  Inc., completed in March 2009.  A takeover of Illumina would be Roche’s  largest purchase 
since Genentech, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Roche
paid $3.4 billion for Ventana in 2008 after initially offering
$3 billion.  Bid Financing  Roche already owns a “very small amount” of Illumina
shares, Chief Financial Officer Alan Hippe said on the call.  Roche plans to finance the bid out of its free  cash flow 
and via borrowing from its credit facility, Hippe said. Roche
obtained a 3.9 billion euro ($5.07 billion) five-year  credit
line  in November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
2010 operating free cash flow was 14.1 billion francs.  Illumina’s directors will review the offer and make a
recommendation to shareholders in due course, the company said
in a statement. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch are acting as financial advisers to Illumina, and  Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP  is legal counsel.  “Our preference continues to be a constructive dialogue
and to have a negotiated agreement,” Schwan said.  Board Seats  Roche has begun the process of nominating candidates to
Illumina’s board to be considered at the annual meeting, Schwan
said.  Greenhill & Co . and Citigroup Inc. are the Swiss company’s
financial advisers, while  Davis Polk & Wardwell  LLP are
providing legal advice.  Four members of Illumina’s nine-member board of directors
are due to stand for re-election at this year’s annual meeting.
Roche, however, plans to nominate six directors at the meeting,
and to propose a separate vote to expand the size of the board
by two, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  If shareholders supported Roche’s proposals, the Swiss
company’s nominees would hold a majority of seats on the board,
this person said. Illumina hasn’t yet scheduled a date for this
year’s annual meeting, which in the past has been held in March
or April.  Genetic Sequencing  Illumina has been in a race to develop the first machine to
be able to parse the building blocks of life in a day, rather
than weeks or months. It announced Jan. 10 that it would market
such a machine in the second half of this year. Illumina
competes with Carlsbad, California-based  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) , which on Jan. 10 also said it had reached the same goal.
The current Illumina machines can sequence five human genomes in
10 days, according to the company.  Roche will use its global reach to move genome sequencing
beyond academic labs and into patient treatment, Daniel O’Day,
the company’s head of diagnostics, said today.  “Together, Roche and Illumina’s capabilities and global
reach will accelerate the transition of sequencing into clinical
and routine diagnostics,” Roche told Illumina employees today
in a letter filed with U.S. regulators. “DNA sequencing is
expected to help to discover complex biomarkers that could
become companion diagnostics and be paired with specific
treatments in the long-term.”  The offer values Illumina at about 32 times analysts’
average 2012 profit forecast of $1.39 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past two years, Illumina has
traded at an average of 29 times forward earnings, the data
show. Illumina traded at Roche’s offer price as recently as last
September, before it scrapped its annual profit forecast on
concern that research funding would be reduced.  Offer to Earnings  The offer equates to about 50 times Illumina’s earnings in
the 12 months ended Sept. 30. That compares with the 83 times
trailing profit that Roche eventually paid for Ventana,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beckman Coulter Inc.,
an Illumina competitor, was sold to  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  last year for
$6.8 billion, or about 26 times profit, the data show.  Roche decided to go directly to shareholders after Illumina
confirmed its lack of interest in a Jan. 18 letter, Humer said
in a response today to Illumina Chief Executive Officer Jay Flatley.  “This is a compelling offer, and we are confident that
your stockholders will find it extremely attractive,” Humer
wrote. “We hope that your board will now take the opportunity
to negotiate a transaction that will allow your shareholders to
realize this substantial value.”  ‘Seize’ Opportunity  Roche said the offer is 64 percent above Illumina’s closing
price on Dec. 21, a day before speculation about a potential
transaction boosted Illumina shares. On Dec. 22, Illumina
advanced 7 percent in New York trading after Schwan told
Bloomberg News in an interview that Roche would be ready to
“seize” the right opportunity. Roche would consider a deal
about the same size as its purchase of Ventana, he said.  In October, Illumina announced a $15 million to $17 million
restructuring plan because of concerns that government and
academic institutions may reduce research funding, as well as
uncertainty about the global economic environment.  With the Illumina offer, Roche is making the largest
unsolicited bid for a life-sciences company since Valeant
Pharmaceuticals Inc. offered $5.7 billion for Cephalon Inc. in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. eventually acquired Cephalon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  