-- Romanian Court Rules Against Same Day General and Local Election
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-01-25T14:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/romanian-court-rules-against-same-day-general-and-local-election.html
Romania’s  Constitutional Court 
rejected a law that merged holding local and parliamentary
elections on the same day after it was challenged by the
opposition.  The nine-judge court panel ruled against the law on grounds
it is unconstitutional, Acsinte Gaspar, a judge, said in a phone
interview in Bucharest today. The opposition  Social Democratic
Party  and the  Liberal Party  challenged the law in court after
Prime Minister Emil Boc survived a no-confidence vote in
Parliament on Dec. 22, which was tied to the new election law.
Winning the vote helped Boc push it through the assembly.  “The government will respect the court’s ruling,” Boc
said today, according to Mediafax news service, adding that he
will say more after the court publishes its motivation for the
decision.  Boc’s government sought to hold the elections at the same
time this year to cut spending as part of its pledges to narrow
the country’s budget gap to 1.9 percent of gross domestic
product from an estimated 4.4 percent in 2011. Merging the
elections next year would save the state some 20 million euros
($26 million), according to the government’s estimates.  Victor Ponta, the head of the social-democrats, demanded
Boc’s resignation at a press conference in Bucharest today on
grounds he won a confidence vote on “a law that is
unconstitutional,” he said.  Boc has embarked on an austerity program this year to
reassure investors that his government will maintain fiscal
discipline before the elections, after signing a new two-year 5
billion-euro precautionary agreement with its international
lenders this year. No election date has been set yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  