-- Romania Frontloads Debt Sales as It Seeks to Avert Change in Risk Appetite
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-01-26T09:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/romania-frontloads-debt-sales-as-it-seeks-to-avert-change-in-risk-appetite.html
Romania  sold a record amount of leu-
denominated debt in January at lower yields as it seeks to
protect its finances from a possible worsening of the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  The Balkan nation sold 9.94 billion lei ($3 billion) in
Treasury bonds and bills on the domestic market, more than
double the planned amount and the most since April 2005,
according to data from the Bucharest-based central bank. The
yield for six-month Treasury bills dropped to 5.87 percent on
Jan. 23 from a record 11 percent in July 2009 after inflation
was the slowest in two decades in December at 3.14 percent.  “It makes sense for Romania to frontload issuance as risk
appetite seems to have stabilized for the moment,”  Neil Shearing , senior emerging-markets analyst at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London , said by phone on Jan. 24. “If risk appetite
changes, which we think it will, Romania could be trapped in the
turmoil because of its banks’ high dependency on funding from
their international parents.”  Romania, which needs to borrow about 70 billion lei this
year to fund a budget deficit and pay maturing debt ahead of
elections, joined Poland and other European countries in selling
more debt than planned in the first month of the year to benefit
from a lull in  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Balkan nation needs to
refinance 52.4 billion lei in maturing debt in 2012.  Polish Sales  The Polish government is also cushioning its finances
against another bout of European market turmoil by selling a
record amount of zloty bonds this month as well.  Poland  sold
6.75 billion zloty ($2 billion) of two-year securities on Jan.
19 at a yield of 4.724 percent, taking its domestic bond sales
to a record of 17.1 billion zloty in January.  Yields on existing two-year notes fell to 4.72 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 14, while the extra yield over similar-
maturity German bunds fell to a one-month low of 449 basis
points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With twice as much debt as  Russia , Poland needs to repay a
record $38 billion this year and plans to meet more than a
quarter of its funding needs by the end of January, the  Finance
Ministry  said on Jan. 14. European Central Bank loans have eased
investor concern for the stability of euro-area lenders, which
own 59 percent of Polish banking assets.  Romania plans to sell as much as 16 billion lei of leu-
denominated debt in the first quarter, the  Finance Ministry  said
on Dec. 23. The auction calendar for February will be published
by the end of the month. Borrowing costs will probably continue
to decline as inflation may slow further, Deputy Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said on Dec. 27.  “As a result of the crisis, it’s not going to be easy for
Romania to find cheap money and that’s why reforms in the
country are so important,”  Mark Mobius , who manages $45 billion
at Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said yesterday.  “There
are probably some bargains around and where these bonds will be
worth much more going forward.”  ‘Very Interested’  The Finance Ministry also wants to extend debt maturities
and sell its first 15-year leu-denominated bonds on the domestic
market in February as pension funds “are very interested in
long-term debt,” according to Dragoi.  The leu, the third worst performer among the 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year, strengthen
0.14 percent to 4.3390 per euro at 11:09 a.m. in Bucharest
trading today. The unit has lost 0.3 percent since the start of
the year.  Policy makers, who cut the main  interest rate  twice in the
past three months by a cumulative half-point to 5.75 percent,
may have room to reduce the benchmark rate further, central bank
Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said on Jan. 17.  Romania also plans to raise as much as 2.5 billion euros
($3 billion) in bonds from international markets this year as
part of a 7 billion-euro medium-term note program over three
years. The first sale of dollar-denominated bonds may come this
year depending on market conditions, according to Dragoi.  ‘Not a Surprise’  “It’s obvious that Romania doesn’t want to issue dollar
bonds in the current conditions and it’s not a surprise that
they are relying more on the local market,”  Daniel Hewitt , a
London-based analyst at Barclays Plc said by phone.  The country stopped relying on bailout funds from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union in March last
year and secured a 5 billion-euro precautionary accord with the
lenders. The government doesn’t plan to draw from the credit.  The Bucharest-based administration pledged to reduce the
 budget deficit  to as low as 1.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 4.4 percent in 2011.  The cost of insuring against a default by Romania has
declined about 35 basis points this year to 413 basis points
today, 173 basis points less than credit-default swaps for
 Hungary  and 170 points more than Poland, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  