-- Romney and Gingrich Court Hispanics in Florida’s Primary Contest
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/romney-and-gingrich-court-hispanics-for-florida-primary.html
Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  vied
for Hispanic voters, roughly a tenth of registered Republicans
in Florida, as the two rivals continued attacking each other
yesterday before the state’s Jan. 31 presidential primary.  Gingrich, in a single comment, mocked Romney’s wealth and
President  Barack Obama  as he challenged Romney’s call in a Jan.
23 debate for undocumented immigrants to “self-deport” if they
want to become legal U.S. residents.  “You have to live in a world of Swiss bank accounts and
Cayman Islands accounts and automatic $20 million-a-year income
with no work to have some fantasy this far from reality,”
Gingrich said in Doral, Florida. “For Romney to believe that
somebody’s grandmother is going to be so cut off that she’s
going to self-deport, this is an Obama-level fantasy.”  Gingrich’s campaign also has run a Spanish-language radio
ad in  Florida  accusing Romney of being “anti-immigrant.”  Romney, who has assailed Gingrich more vigorously following
the former U.S. House speaker’s Jan. 21 South Carolina primary
win, responded on the immigration issue by questioning his
opponent’s temperament.  “I’m very sad for a candidate to resort to that kind of
epithet,” Romney said in Miami at a forum yesterday on matters
of concern to Hispanics. “There are differences between
candidates on important issues, but we don’t attack each other
with those kinds of terrible terms.”  Rubio Criticism  The radio ad also drew  criticism  from Republican Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida, a favorite of the Tea Party movement who
isn’t endorsing in the primary. “This kind of language is more
than just unfortunate. It’s inaccurate, inflammatory, and
doesn’t belong in this campaign,” Rubio told the Miami Herald.  Romney has branded as “amnesty” a Gingrich proposal to
permit some law-abiding, English-speaking illegal immigrants who
have been in the country for an extended period and have civic
and religious ties in their communities to stay in the U.S. as
part of seeking legal residency.  Still, the former Massachusetts governor said yesterday he
doesn’t favor “going around the country and trying to round
people up,” saying his focus would be on border control.  “Illegal immigration has to stop, or there will be an
effort to stop legal immigration,” he said.  He has said in several debates that illegal immigrants who
want legal U.S. residency must first return to their homelands,
without exception, to start the process.  Focus on Cuba  At a Cuban-American event in Miami yesterday, Romney said
it is “time to strike for freedom in Cuba,” and that he would
do so as president.  “If I’m fortunate enough to become the next president of
the  United States , it is my expectation that  Fidel Castro  will
finally be taken off this planet,” he said, an apparent
reference to the Cuban leader's age -- 85 -- and poor health.  Gingrich suggested Obama try to help Cubans the same way the
U.S. aided insurgents topple dictators in Egypt and  Libya . “I
will use every nonmilitary tool” to pressure the Castro
government, Gingrich said at Florida International University in
west Miami-Dade County.  He also suggested the U.S. send “a clear message” to the
next generation of Cubans that “there will not be a successor
to Castro.”  Poll Results  Two polls released yesterday showed Romney and Gingrich in
a virtual tie in Florida, heightening the pressure on both as
they prepare for a televised debate tonight in Jacksonville,
Florida. The surveys by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University  and CNN/Time/ORC each showed Romney with 36 percent
support and Gingrich with 34 percent.  The race’s two other remaining candidates -- former Senator
 Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas  -- trailed far behind in the polls.  As Romney’s Jan. 24 release of tax returns has provided
fodder for his opponents, he has been emphasizing that he
“didn’t inherit” his wealth. He also discussed yesterday why
his tax rate is lower than those of many Americans.  “One of the reasons why we have a lower tax rate on
capital gains is because capital gains are also being taxed at
the corporate level,” he said. “The tax rate is really closer
to 45 or 50 percent” for such income.  His disclosure earlier this week showed he made $21.6
million in 2010 and used preferential rates for investment
income and charitable contributions to hold his overall tax rate
to 13.9 percent.  Carried Interest  In Congress, Romney’s returns reignited a debate on the tax
treatment of so-called carried interest, which provides some
investment executives with preferential tax rates.  Romney said in an interview with CNBC that he would seek to
keep the provision in the  tax code , if elected, because he
doesn’t want to raise taxes on anyone.  “If it’s actually a  capital investment , and it’s fairly
priced at the time people invest in it, and then it rises in
value as a capital gain, then you treat it as a capital gain,”
he said. “If someone turns it into what looks like ordinary
income or a bonus, why then, obviously, it’s not a capital
gain.”  Gingrich has been attracting large crowds since he began
campaigning in Florida following his 12-point win over Romney in
South Carolina primary. A group estimated by police at 1,200
crammed a parking lot and surrounding spaces in Coral Springs
yesterday to hear him.  Gingrich’s Rallies  Yesterday’s rally was Gingrich’s third in two days to
attract a crowd numbering in the thousands. He filled a park in
Naples and an airplane hangar in Sarasota on Jan. 24.  In introducing Gingrich yesterday at  Florida International
University , Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican,
addressed a controversy surrounding Gingrich.  “I know a lobbyist when I see one,” Burton said. “Newt
Gingrich is not, was not and never has been a lobbyist.”  Romney has been insisting that much of Gingrich’s work
since he left office in 1999 -- including his employment by
 Freddie Mac  -- amounted to lobbying and “influence peddling.”
Gingrich has said Freddie Mac paid him to act as a consultant
and historian.  Romney continued his line of attack yesterday during a stop
in  Orlando , saying, “It’s time to have a president who’s not
just a lobbyist and not just a legislator and not just a blamer
and a campaigner, but a president who knows how to get the job
done because he’s done it time and time again.”  ‘Get America Working’  Referring to his own experience as a private-equity
executive for Bain Capital LLC, Romney said, “I will get
America working again because I know how to get America working
again.”  Gingrich broached a different subject at a gathering in
Cocoa, along what is known as Florida’s Space Coast. Discussing
his proposal to reinvigorate the U.S. space program, he said
that as president he would push for establishment of a permanent
base on the moon by the end of a second term.  “Does that mean I’m a visionary? You betcha,” Gingrich
said to loud applause.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Miami at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Doral at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  