-- Romney: Obama Speech ‘Detached From Reality’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-25T17:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/romney-criticizes-obama-s-state-of-union-speech-as-detached-from-reality-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  told  Florida  voters today that Barack Obama’s State
of the Union address was “detached from reality” as he pointed
to a trip the president made last week to Disney World.  “I was reminded of his trip just a week or so ago when he
spoke at Fantasyland,” Romney said during a speech at a sheet
metal company warehouse in Orlando. “He was speaking in
fantasyland again last night. He seemed so extraordinarily
detached from reality.”  Obama last night emphasized populist themes, including tax
fairness, help for homeowners, cracking down on U.S. financial
crimes and unfair trade practices in China, and investigating
the lending practices that preceded the housing crisis.  Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , also took a
swipe at his Republican rivals, including  Newt Gingrich , as
a new poll shows the former U.S. House speaker surging in
 Florida (BEESFL)  before the state’s Jan. 31 primary vote.  Romney led Gingrich by 36 percent to 34 percent in a Jan.
19-23 poll released today by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University . The telephone survey of 601 likely
Republican primary voters in Florida has a margin of error of
plus or minus 4 percentage points. In a Quinnipiac poll released
Jan. 9, Romney led Gingrich 36 percent to 24 percent.  ‘Not Just a Lobbyist’  “It’s time to have a president who’s not just a lobbyist
and not just a legislator and not just a blamer and a
campaigner, but a president who knows how to get the job done
because he’s done it time and time again,” said Romney, who
made millions of dollars as a private-equity executive for Bain
Capital LLC. “I will get America working again because I know
how to get America working again.”  He has insisted that Gingrich’s past work for  Freddie Mac (FRE) 
amounted to lobbying and “influence peddling,” while Gingrich
said he was paid to act as a consultant and historian to the
mortgage company.  Romney’s wealth provided fresh fodder for his opponents a
day after he released a  tax return  showing that he earned $21.6
million in 2010 and used preferential rates for investment
income and charitable contributions to hold his overall tax rate
down to 13.9 percent.  Gingrich today mocked Romney’s call during a Jan. 23 debate
for undocumented immigrants to voluntarily “self-deport” home
to get work there.  ‘Swiss Bank Accounts’  “You have to live in a world of Swiss bank accounts,”
Gingrich said during an event in Doral, Florida. “For Romney to
believe that somebody’s grandmother is going to be so cut off
that she’s going to self-deport, this is an Obama-level
fantasy.”  Romney has branded as “amnesty” a Gingrich proposal to
permit some law-abiding, English-speaking illegal immigrants who
have been in the country for an extended period and have civic
and religious ties in their communities to become U.S. citizens.  Obama’s chief political strategist,  David Axelrod , said
Romney’s  tax rate  illustrates why lawmakers should endorse the
president’s call last night for a minimum 30 percent tax rate
for people with incomes of $1 million or more a year.  “Mitt may have thought story would be buried by SOU, but,
if so, it was a Swiss Miss,” Axelrod said in a posting on
Twitter today. “His tax release helped make case for Buffett
rule.” Obama has dubbed his tax proposal “the Buffett Rule,”
based on billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s observation that he pays a
lower rate than his secretary.  ‘Big Government’  Both Gingrich and Romney criticized Obama’s focus in his
annual televised speech to Congress.  “The president described his conviction that his big
government is built to last and should be paid for with higher
taxes,” Gingrich said in a statement. “Bigger government and
higher taxes will not lead to jobs and growth,” but rather to
“more people on  food stamps .”  Romney said Obama had failed to adequately address the
problem of federal spending and deficits.  “This is a president who talks about deregulation even as
he regulates, who talks about lowering taxes even as he raises
them,” Romney said in his  Orlando  remarks. “We are, if you
will, a virtual Titanic and he’s saying ‘full speed ahead.’”
Romney said.  “The difference, of course, is that they couldn’t see the
iceberg,” Romney said. “In this case, we can see the
iceberg.”  He said Obama is wrong to suggest the nation is headed in
the right direction.  “Mr. President, things aren’t going so swimmingly,”
Romney said. “When you got up and said on the ‘Today Show’
three years ago that if you couldn’t turn around this economy in
three years, you’d be looking at a one-term proposition, well,
you’re right and we’re here to collect.”  Romney briefly praised Obama for talking about China trade
policy, before quickly criticizing him again.  “I took some pleasure in the fact that he’s talking about
cracking down on  China , even as he has not done so,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Orlando at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Doral at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  