-- Russian Vote Monitor Says It Faces Eviction Ahead of March Polls
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-01-25T07:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/russian-vote-monitor-says-it-faces-eviction-ahead-of-march-polls.html
A Russian vote-monitoring group said
it’s facing eviction from its offices ahead of the March 4
presidential election, in which Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
seeking to return to the Kremlin.  The landlord, the Literaturnaya Gazeta publisher, informed
Golos that the electricity will be cut off periodically between
Jan. 25 and March 6, said the monitoring group’s head, Lilia
Shibanova. The owner resorted to the measure after failing to
terminate the lease immediately, she said by phone today.  “This is a major disruption to our work, it’s a
catastrophe,” Shibanova said. “It means changing offices,
which will keep us occupied for 10 days with less than six weeks
before the vote.” Literaturnaya Gazeta could not be reached for
comment immediately.  Tens of thousands of people protested in Russian cities
after December parliamentary elections, with the opposition
accusing Putin’s ruling party of inflating its score from 30
percent to about 50 percent. Putin, 59, needs more than half the
vote to win the presidency in the first round. The prime
minister, who was president from 2000 to 2008, is running for a
new six-year term.  Golos, which receives funding from the U.S. government and
the European Union, monitored polling in about about half of
Russian regions in the Dec. 4 elections. The group came under
pressure before the vote, as prosecutors fined it for violations
of electoral law, Shibanova was detained at a Moscow airport and
her laptop was confiscated.  Putin pledged honest elections in March when asked in
December what he can offer the country as New Year’s gift, after
saying he doesn’t need “any manipulation” to win. The prime
minister in November said foreign powers are seeking to
intervene in elections by financing civil-society groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  