-- SAP Forecasts Higher Profit, Sales This Year on Analytics, Mobile Software
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-25T11:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/sap-forecasts-higher-profit-sales-this-year-on-analytics-mobile-software.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, forecast operating profit will
rise as much as 11 percent this year, helped by demand for its
real-time analytics software and mobile applications.  Operating profit will be in a range of 5.05 billion euros
($6.6 billion) to 5.25 billion euros, based on accounting
methods used by SAP for internal planning and excluding currency
swings, the company said today. That compares with the 5.15
billion-euro  average estimate  of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Software and related services revenue on that basis will rise by
10 percent to 12 percent.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, this month reported
revenue and operating profit that beat estimates, while U.S.
rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and smaller German peer Software AG fell
short of projections. This year’s forecasts will include
contribution from the $3.4 billion acquisition of SuccessFactors
Inc. aimed at bolstering the SAP’s position in the cloud-
computing market.  “SAP had a great finish in 2011, they have everything
going for them and new innovative products,” said Sebastien Thevoux-Chabuel, an analyst for Oddo Securities in Paris.
“Maybe they’re a bit too optimistic but we’ll see, as
everything hinges on the macroeconomic picture.”  Shares Slip  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecast
for the global economy as  Europe  slips into a recession and
growth cools in  China  and  India . The world economy will expand
3.3 percent this year and 3.9 percent in 2013, compared with
September forecasts of 4 percent and 4.5 percent, the IMF said.  SAP shares slipped 0.5 percent to 44.17 euros in Frankfurt
trading at 11:38 a.m., valuing the company at 54.3 billion
euros. Before today, the stock had gained 9.7 percent over 12
months while  Germany ’s DAX index dropped 9.2 percent.  SAP plans to boost annual revenue with the help of cloud-
computing software, mobile applications gained through its
Sybase acquisition and Hana, which lets companies analyze data
in a computer’s memory instead of through slower disk drives.  The management is “optimistic” that SAP can grow by at
least ten percent a year even without acquisitions, co-Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said today.  Net income in the fourth quarter was 1.2 billion euros,
compared with an average analyst estimate of 1.14 billion euros.
The software maker also beat its own growth forecast for 2011
for sales from software and related services, as revenue grew 17
percent at constant currency, compared with the 14 percent
higher end of its forecast, based on non-international financial
reporting standards.  ‘Quite Upbeat’  “We’re in all the markets that companies and governments
need to be in to grow and prosper,” co-CEO  Bill McDermott  said
in a Bloomberg TV interview, adding that he’s “quite upbeat”
about the coming quarters.  Revenue from Hana will probably more than double to more
than 320 million euros this year, while sales from mobile
applications will more than double to more than 220 million
euros, McDermott said. Revenue from the on-demand software
Business ByDesign suite will probably triple, he said, without
stating current sales.  Global software revenue is set to grow 5.8 percent this
year, helped by demand from companies wanting to move computing
resources to external server centers, as well as the need to
process large datasets and increased use of mobile devices,
according to research firm IDC.  Turnaround  Since McDermott and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe took the helm
from  Leo Apotheker  in February 2010, they have pursued a
strategy of making their software available on-premise, on-
demand and on-device.  “They’ve turned around from about two years ago,” said
 Ray Wang , CEO of Constellation Research. “A lot of things like
outreach to customers and communication now work much better.”  The company is “well-positioned” to meet its 2015 targets
for more than 20 billion euros in revenue and a 35 percent
operating margin, the co-CEOs said in the statement. The
operating margin, based on non IFRS accounting standards, was 33
percent last year.  SAP’s operating profit margin will rise “more moderately”
in 2012 because of lower margins at SuccessFactors’ Web-based
operations, McDermott said.  SuccessFactors’ user base could double this year from about
15 million and the purchase will ultimately give SAP the
critical mass to make the cloud business profitable, McDermott
said. The acquisition will ‘surely’ be approved by U.S.
authorities ‘very soon’, SAP Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  