-- Saudi Oil Can Replace Large Share of Iran Exports, EIU Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-01-25T15:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/saudi-oil-can-replace-large-part-of-iranian-exports-eiu-says.html
Saudi Arabia  has enough spare crude
capacity to replace much of the heavy oil exported by Iran,
which faces a European Union import ban, according to the
Economist Intelligence Unit.  Saudi Arabia pumps about 9.8 million barrels a day,
including oil from the partitioned zone the kingdom shares with
 Kuwait , and it still has 2.5 million barrels a day of spare
capacity, said Robert Powell, a senior economist at the London-
based research company. That’s about the same amount that Iran
exports, he said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, increased exports by 721,000
barrels to 7.8 million barrels a day in November, according to
data submitted by governments to the Joint Organization Data
Initiative.  Iran , the group’s second-biggest producer, raised
its exports by 5,000 barrels in November to 2.02 million barrels
a day, the data showed.  The EU announced on Jan. 23 it would ban oil imports from
Iran starting July 1 because of concerns the country is
developing nuclear weapons. The EU embargo will “bear bitter
fruit,” Iran’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said this week.  Europe , collectively the second-largest buyer of Iranian
oil after  China , imported 865,000 barrels of oil a day from Iran
in November, Abdalla el-Badri, secretary-general of OPEC, said
on Dec. 7. The EU wouldn’t be able to replace Iranian crude oil
easily, he said.  Tanker Bottleneck  Sanctions targeting Iran’s oil exports may prompt the
country to close the  Strait of Hormuz  to shipping, Iranian Vice-
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27. About 20 percent
of globally traded oil passes through the waterway at the mouth
of the Persian Gulf.  In the event of a disruption to traffic in the strait,
Saudi Arabia could shift some of its crude from the country’s
Gulf coast to export terminals on the  Red Sea . The kingdom has
internal pipelines with a combined capacity of some 4.5 million
barrels a day that can transport oil westward to the port of
Yanbu, Powell said.  Still, Saudi Arabia would need to “ring-fence” about half
of that 4.5 million barrels a day for domestic use, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  