-- HSBC Said to Seek Buyer for Japan Premier Unit as Gulliver Exits Markets
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-25T10:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/hsbc-seeks-buyer-for-japan-retail-banking-ops.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, is seeking buyers for its Japanese consumer banking unit
four years after starting the business, said three people
familiar with the matter.  HSBC may sell  HSBC Premier , the division that targets
wealthy individuals in Japan, the people said on condition of
anonymity because the plan isn’t public. The London-based bank
has started an auction for the business, and may shut it if
offers aren’t attractive enough, two of the people said.  The U.K. lender is scaling back in parts of  Asia , including
Japan, South Korea and Thailand, as Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  cuts assets to reduce expenses and prepare for
tighter capital rules. HSBC said yesterday that it agreed to
sell operations in  Costa Rica , El Salvador and  Honduras  to
Colombia’s Banco Davivienda SA for $801 million to focus on
bigger markets in  Latin America .  “The possible sale means the profit outlook for the
business is weak, and banks in Europe are keen to get rid of
unprofitable assets,” said Toru Komatsu, who advises wealthy
individuals in Japan as CEO of Komatsu Portfolio Advisors Co.
“It’s difficult for foreign banks to compete with Japanese
lenders that have larger networks, longer ties with clients and
a deeper understanding of their assets and needs.”  Paul Allen, a spokesman for HSBC in  Tokyo , declined to
comment on the status of the Japanese retail unit.  ‘Mass-Affluent’  HSBC, which opened its first Japanese branch in the port
city of Yokohama in 1866, started services for “mass-affluent”
customers -- people with savings of at least 10 million yen
($128,000) -- in Tokyo in 2008.  In 2010, it added retail offices in Osaka and Nagoya, the
second- and third-largest metropolitan areas, bringing the total
to six. HSBC’s three Tokyo branches are in the Marunouchi
financial district, as well as Hiroo and Akasaka.  Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. , a unit of  Japan ’s biggest banking group,
had 772 branches nationwide as of Sept. 30.  HSBC and lenders including Citigroup Inc. and Standard
Chartered Plc have been competing with Japanese banks for a
share of  household financial assets  that totaled 1,471 trillion
yen as of Sept. 30, according to central bank figures. Apart
from retail services, HSBC has securities and asset management
operations in Japan.  Reversing Expansion  Gulliver is reversing some of HSBC’s global expansion over
the past two decades, selling assets and cutting jobs, while
reinvesting some of the proceeds in faster-growing markets. In
Japan, economic prospects are deteriorating as the  population 
declines and  deflation  persists.  The Bank of Japan yesterday cut the economic growth
forecast to 2 percent for the year starting in April, reflecting
concern that the European sovereign debt crisis will slow
exports.  Shipments abroad  fell 8 percent in December from a year
earlier and the country posted its first annual trade deficit in
31 years, Finance Ministry figures showed today.  Last month, HSBC agreed to sell its Japanese private
banking business to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  The sale of the
unit, which managed assets of $2.7 billion as of Oct. 31, is
expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2012, HSBC
said in a statement in December, without disclosing the price.  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl , the Thai lender partly owned by
General Electric Co., said it will buy HSBC’s consumer banking
business in Thailand, for about 3.56 billion baht ($115
million), in a statement today. The division has about $553
million of assets, HSBC said separately.  KDB Financial Group Inc., South Korea’s largest state-run
banking group, is in talks to buy HSBC’s branches in the
country, the Seoul-based lender’s Chairman Kang Man Soo said on
Jan. 5.  In Costa Rica,  El Salvador  and Honduras, HSBC had 136
branches serving corporate and consumer banking clients and held
$4.3 billion of assets, the bank said in a statement yesterday.
It will retain branches in Panama, Colombia,  Nicaragua  and the
Bahamas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  