-- Scene Last Night: Wilbur Ross, Kenneth Buckfire, Henry Cornell
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-25T14:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/scene-last-night-wilbur-ross-kenneth-buckfire-henry-cornell-gary-parr.html
At the  New York  Philharmonic’s Year
of the Dragon gala last night, plenty of guests had advice for
doing business in  China .  Wilbur Ross , dressed in a black-and-red Chinese jacket,
said, “You’re dealing with a much more sophisticated culture
than we have.”  Thomas Wu, a consultant based in Dusseldorf, Germany, who
helps foreign companies do business in China, was more exact.  “When you invest according to the Five Year Plan, the
likelihood of success is high,” Wu said. “The plan is future-
oriented, so good investments are clean tech, renewable energy
and rare earths, used to produce LED chips. China will be
leading in lighting products.”  As Kenneth Buckfire, chief executive officer of Miller
Buckfire & Co., mingled with fellow Philharmonic board member
Daisy Soros,  Gary Parr , Philharmonic chairman and vice chairman
of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , talked with Joan Weill about Alvin Ailey’s
tentative plans to perform in China.  Ansso Wang of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  knew the
Year of the Dragon was auspicious: “This is the year to have
children.”  The topic of doing business with China returned as waiters
passed duck rolls and dumplings.  U.S. diplomat Nicholas Platt, father of actor Oliver Platt
and restaurant critic Adam Platt, said the key is to “keep
showing up.”  “Be patient,” added Andrew Xuejun Mao, chief marketing
officer of the New York branch of  China Merchants Bank (600036)  Co.  “Ensure you have a really good Chinese friend,” said
Anthony Walton, vice chairman, Americas, at Standard Chartered
Bank.  Dragon Puppet  “All of the above,” said Maurice Greenberg, chairman and
chief executive of C.V. Starr & Co.  The concert at  Avery Fisher Hall  began, to the beating of a
drum wrapped in red silk. A dragon puppet danced across the
stage.  The showstopper was the Quintessenso Mongolian Children’s
Choir, from the area of the Hulun Buir Grassland. Dressed in
colorful robes, boots and white-fur pompoms, the 22 children
performed folk songs without an ounce of stage fright.  Their sweet voices and Lady Gaga-caliber dance moves earned
them a standing ovation, led by Damian Woetzel, a member of the
President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities, and Alan Patricof, managing director and founder of Greycroft Partners
LLC.  At intermission, Henry Cornell, a partner at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , said he was looking forward to the oboe piece,
“Extase” by Quigang Chen, featuring New York Philharmonic
oboist Liang Wang.  “I played the bassoon and oboe until I was 16,” Cornell
said. “Now my 6-year-old is studying piano. We take lessons
together on Saturday mornings.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 