-- SEC Says Rakoff Erred on ‘Public Interest’ Test for Accords
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-26T01:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/sec-says-rakoff-wrong-that-accords-must-be-in-public-interest.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyers said U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff erred in
determining that courts must find its proposed settlements with
companies to be “in the public interest” to win approval.  Courts must only find the accords to be “fair, adequate
and reasonable,” SEC attorney Andrea Wood told a federal judge
in Wisconsin in a filing defending the agency’s proposed
settlement with Milwaukee-based  Koss Corp. (KOSS) , a manufacturer of
stereo headphones sued for allegedly making materially
inaccurate financial statements for fiscal years 2005 through
2009.  In November, Rakoff in  Manhattan  rejected  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
$285 million settlement with the SEC over claims the bank misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations. He had criticized
the SEC’s practice of letting financial institutions such as New
York-based Citigroup settle without admitting or denying
liability, and said in his Citigroup ruling that in cases that
touch on the transparency of financial markets,  “there is an
overriding public interest in knowing the truth.”  “The commission respectfully submits that the district
court in SEC v. Citigroup Global Mkt. erred in adding the
requirement that a reviewing court also find such judgments to
be in the public interest,” Wood said in a filing yesterday.
“Nonetheless, in this case, the proposed consent judgments are
in the public interest, as well as being fair, adequate and
reasonable and therefore satisfy the Citigroup standard.”  SEC’s Claims  In the proposed Koss settlement, Koss and its chief
executive officer didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s claims.  U.S. District Judge Rudolph T. Randa in  Milwaukee  had
questioned the adequacy of the SEC-Koss settlement’s provision
that the company promise not to violate securities laws in the
future. He said the agreement is vague and could pose problems
for enforcing it.  The SEC said Koss had “taken substantial remedial
actions” to address the internal control failures that led to
the SEC’s lawsuit and the agency could submit revised final
judgments with more details about the agreement.  Randa also asked the SEC to provide more information to
justify the amount Michael Koss will pay to resolve the claims.
Under the agreement, Koss would forfeit a total of about
$450,000 and 160,000 options, the equivalent of his incentive
bonuses for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, according to court
filings.  The SEC said the amounts were appropriate and consistent
with the requirements spelled out in provisions of Sarbanes-
Oxley.  “The proposed settlement as a whole fairly reflects the
scope of relief likely to be obtained by the commission if
successful at a trial on the merits,” taking into account
Koss’s remedial measures, the risks of a trial, the willingness
of of Koss and its chief executive to consent to the judgments
and other factors, Wood said in the filing.  The case is SEC v. Koss, 11-991, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  