-- Senators Warner, Corker Press for Action on Broad Debt Reduction
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-25T17:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/senators-warner-corker-press-for-action-on-broad-debt-reduction.html
Two of the Senate’s top advocates of
a long-term deficit-cutting plan said lawmakers must continue to
press for legislation that can pass this year, even as they
disagreed on whether an election-year deal is possible.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, and Senator
Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, said addressing the nation’s
debt deserves an almost singular focus because a debt-cutting
deal could boost the economy and investments.  Corker said Obama’s focus in last night’s State of the
Union speech on tax increases for the wealthy -- opposed by
Republicans -- signals another year of partisan feuding that
provides little hope for progress on reducing the deficit.  “What I heard last night is that for the next year we’re
really not going to do much,” Corker said at a Washington forum
hosted today by Bloomberg Government and Bloomberg Businessweek.  Warner, co-leader of a bipartisan group of senators who
sought unsuccessfully to reach a deal last year, said he’s more
hopeful because in a “marginally recovering economy” lawmakers
recognize that voters will expect action.  Further, he said, lawmakers in both chambers must realize
that without a reduction in the deficit, the next president will
need to seek a debt-limit increase as one of his first actions.  “This problem doesn’t self-correct,” Warner said. “If we
can get at it this year, let’s do it.”  Bowles-Simpson Plan  Warner and Corker said they are working on legislation that
would include ideas from the co-chairmen of Obama’s debt-
reduction commission. The commission in December 2010 rejected
the proposal by its leaders, former White House Chief of Staff
Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, and former Senator  Alan Simpson , a
Wyoming Republican.  The Bowles-Simpson plan included an overhaul of the U.S.
 tax code , cutting rates while eliminating tax breaks and
imposing significant cuts in spending on entitlement and other
government programs. Its goal was to slash about $4 trillion
over a decade from the  budget deficit .  House and Senate leaders haven’t endorsed letting such a
proposal come to a vote.  In his speech last night, Obama didn’t mention the Bowles-
Simpson plan, although he said he’s willing to keep negotiating
on spending cuts and tax increases that could be combined into a
broader plan.  Reaching a Deal  Obama emphasized his willingness last year to reach a deal
with Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio . Their
conversations failed after Boehner said Obama was pushing for
too many tax increases.  “As I told the speaker this summer, I’m prepared to make
more reforms that rein in the long-term costs of Medicare and
Medicaid, and strengthen Social Security, so long as those
programs remain a guarantee of security for seniors,” Obama
said. “But in return, we need to change our tax code so that
people like me, and an awful lot of members of Congress, pay our
fair share of taxes.”  Warner said today that Obama didn’t push hard enough in the
speech for an ambitious deficit-cutting plan. He said he
preferred that the president endorse something similar to the
Bowles-Simpson proposal.  “I would have liked to have heard last night more from the
president about the notion of challenging us in Congress,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  