-- Singapore Civil Defense, Narcotics Heads Replaced Amid Misconduct Charges
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-25T12:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/singapore-civil-defense-narcotics-heads-replaced-amid-misconduct-charges.html
Singapore  replaced its Civil Defence
and Central Narcotics Bureau heads on allegations of “serious
personal misconduct” in the city-state’s highest-level probe of
public servants in almost two decades.  The commissioner of the Singapore Civil Defence Force,
Peter Lim Sin Peng, has been dismissed along with the director
of the Central Narcotics Bureau Ng Boon Gay, according to
 statements  from the Home Affairs Ministry yesterday. The city’s
Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau began investigations into
the activities of the two as early as December, requiring them
to go on leave from their duties, according to the announcement.  The probe adds to challenges faced by the Southeast Asian
nation since Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s People’s Action
Party won elections in May by the smallest margin since
independence. The city, which lost its top spot on  Transparency
International ’s  corruption  index last year, is also grappling
with public criticism following the worst disruptions to its
subway services and flooding in the biggest shopping district.  “Major bribery scandals dent Singapore’s reputation for
clean government,” said Richard Cassin, author of “Bribery
Abroad: Lessons From the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.” “The
enormous corporate and personal wealth in Singapore is bound to
create more temptation.”  Assistant Civil Defence commissioner Eric Yap Wee Teck, 43,
and senior assistant commissioner of police Ng Ser Song, 49,
will take over from Lim and Ng respectively  starting  on Feb. 1
to “ensure leadership continuity of both organizations,”
according to the statement.  Firm, Decisive Action  The ministry said it’s unable to comment on the details of
the case and that the investigations will shed light on the
facts. The officers will be given a fair hearing in accordance
with the civil service disciplinary process and the law, it
said.  “All public officers, regardless of their position or
seniority, are expected to uphold the highest standards of
integrity and conduct,” said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean in a statement. “If officers are found to have abused the
trust placed in them, we will not hesitate to take firm and
decisive action against them.”  Ng was arrested Dec. 19 and Lim was arrested Jan. 4,
Channel News Asia reported on its  website , citing a statement by
the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau. The two men are out
on bail, the report said.  Clare Tan of the corporate affairs department at the
Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau didn’t answer a phone
call made to her office after work hours today. She didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking confirmation of the
arrests and telephone numbers of Ng and Lim.  Lawmakers in Singapore, ranked as the Asian city with the
best quality of life by Mercer and the world’s easiest place to
do business by the  World Bank , have raised concerns about the
efficiency of the country’s infrastructure system after train
breakdowns and flash floods last month. The country also has the
highest proportion of millionaires in the world.  Open and Transparent  “You can’t always stop bad things from happening,” said
Hri Kumar, chairman of the Government Parliamentary Committee
for Law and Home Affairs. “What defines a proper system is
where errors and inappropriate conduct are identified and
investigated thoroughly and dealt with in an open and
transparent manner.”  SMRT Corp. (MRT)  Chief Executive Officer Saw Phaik Hwa stepped
down on Jan. 6 as head of the city’s biggest train operator
after glitches on Dec. 15 and 17 delayed more than 200,000
people, including shoppers in the Orchard Road retail district
in the last weekend before the Christmas holiday.  Singapore’s parliament backed a motion last week to cut
salaries for Lee and top office holders even after some members
said the reductions may make it more difficult to attract talent
in politics. A government-appointed committee set up by the
prime minister recommended this month that his annual income
fall 36 percent to S$2.2 million ($1.7 million) and those of new
ministers decline to about S$1.1 million from S$1.58 million.  Tougher Penalty Regime  Singapore, where assets under management have risen
fivefold since 2001, will consider a “tougher penalty regime”
and boost enforcement against  money laundering  and terrorist
financing, the central bank said in October. The city-state will
also make laundering of proceeds from tax offenses a crime and
tighten laws on  tax evasion , it said.  Singapore was  rated  the fifth-least corrupt country in the
world last year by Transparency International, a Berlin-based
anti-corruption organization.  The Asian city reviewed its public sector’s financial
procedures after uncovering a S$12.5 million fraud in September
2010 by two former workers at its land authority. The two men,
Koh Seah Wee and Lim Chai Meng, were jailed for 22 years and 15
years respectively for cheating government agencies in the
biggest public fraud case since 1995. The incident severely
shook public confidence in the internal controls at government
agencies, prosecutors said then.  In December, a clerical officer from the Ministry of Home
Affairs, which oversees both the civil defense and narcotics
bureau, was  charged  for offenses including forgery and cheating
of S$617,087.  Reputation for Leniency  Yeo Seng Teck, who was chief executive officer of the Trade
Development Board, was investigated in 1993 for cheating
offences dating back to 1988 involving the purchase of S$2
million of Chinese antiques, according to the Corrupt Practices
Investigation Bureau’s  website . He was sentenced to a four-year
jail term, it said.  In 1995, Choy Hon Tim, a deputy chief executive at the
Public Utilities Board, was jailed for 14 years for taking
S$13.9 million in kickbacks in Singapore’s largest public sector
graft case. Choy was released in 2005 for good behavior.  Glenn Knight, a former director of the Commercial Affairs
Department was sentenced to a day’s jail in 1998 and suspended
from legal practice on corruption charges in 1991. The  Straits
Times  said the latest investigations rank among the highest-
level probes of civil servants since Knight’s case.  “Singapore doesn’t have a reputation for leniency toward
white-collar criminals,” Cassin said. “What it may need,
however, is more oversight in some of the government agencies,
more checks and balances and financial accountability. That
might slow down the wheels of government a bit, but that’s the
cost of better financial controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ; Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
1895 or  kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  