-- SolarWorld Seeks Retroactive Duties After China Import Surge
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-25T20:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/solarworld-seeking-retroactive-duties-after-china-imports-surge.html
SolarWorld AG (SWV)  is seeking retroactive
duties on Chinese solar panels after imports surged at the end
of last year, said an attorney for the company’s U.S. unit.  SolarWorld has asked the Commerce Department to apply
duties on imports that have arrived since Nov. 15, 90 days
before the agency is scheduled to rule on Feb. 13, said Timothy Brightbill, an attorney with Wiley Rein LLP, a  law firm  that
filed the petition on behalf of the U.S. manufacturers including
the American unit of Bonn-based SolarWorld. The company
presented evidence to support its allegation on Dec. 23, he
said.  Imports from  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (SUPOHZ)  and  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL) , two of the biggest China-based makers of crystalline
silicon panels, surged as the companies tried to evade tariffs
that may be imposed next month, Brightbill said. Suntech imports
increased 76 percent in November from October, while Trina’s
tripled in the first half of December, compared with the first
half of November, according to data compiled by the U.S.
manufacturers.  “The bottom line is there has been a huge surge at the end
of the year, way out of proportion to demand, in an effort to
beat the imposition of duties,” Brightbill said today in an
interview. “That’s why we’re urging Commerce to make what’s
called a critical-circumstances finding and to impose the duties
90 days retroactively.”  Grant Program Expired  The increase in imports may have been driven by developers
racing to qualify for a federal grant program that ended Dec.
31, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. The
U.S. Treasury Department’s 1603 program offered cash grants of
as much as 30 percent of development costs for renewable-energy
projects.  The program’s expiration spurred “strong U.S. market
demand in the fourth quarter,” Walker Frost, a San Francisco-
based spokesman for Suntech, said in an e-mail. “Suntech
continues to grow steadily with the U.S. solar industry, and in
2011 we maintained our leading market share.”  E-mails to the press offices of Trina and LDK Solar Co.,
another China-based producer, weren’t immediately returned.  U.S. solar-equipment manufacturers say they are being
harmed because  China ’s government uses cash grants, discounts on
raw materials, preferential loans and tax incentives, and
manipulates its currency to boost exports of solar cells.
SolarWorld, a maker of solar modules, filed a complaint Oct. 19
with the U.S. International Trade Commission and the Commerce
Department, seeking duties to offset the practices.  The trade commission on Dec. 2 said the Chinese subsidies
have harmed equipment makers, ruling on the petition seeking
antidumping and countervailing duties.  The commission is investigating possible economic harm to
SolarWorld from Chinese imports, while the department determines
the penalty for Chinese companies that illegally dump products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  