-- Solar Cheaper Than Diesel Making India’s Mittal Believer: Energy
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/solar-cheaper-than-diesel-making-india-s-mittal-believer-energy.html
India  is producing power from solar
cells more cheaply than by burning diesel for the first time,
spurring billionaire Sunil Mittal and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s mango
supplier to jettison the fuel in favor of photovoltaic panels.  The cost of solar energy in India declined by 28 percent
since December 2010, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
The cause was a 51 percent drop in panel prices last year as
the world’s 10 largest manufacturers, led by China’s  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , doubled output capacity.  “Solar is going mainstream in India, helped by Chinese
pricing,” said Ardeshir Contractor, founder of developer Kiran
Energy Solar Power Pvt. Kiran, whose investors include Bessemer
Venture Partners, an early financier of Skype Technologies SA,
won one of the largest projects auctioned by India last month.  India joins pockets of  Italy , Spain and  Hawaii  where rising
fuel costs and lower panel prices make solar pay for itself
without state subsidies, New Energy Finance data show. Factories
and homes in the Asian nation switch on emergency diesel-fired
generators during chronic blackouts and to bridge gaps in the
power-delivery grid as the government prepares a $400 billion
program through 2017 to curb the shortfall and spur growth.  “If they had the foresight, these factories would be
replacing their diesel generators now or at least getting what
they can from solar,” said Lalit Jain, chief executive officer
of Moser Baer Clean Energy Ltd., which owns 100 megawatts of
operating solar plants in India, Italy, the U.K. and  Germany .  Power Deficit  Electricity demand exceeds supply in India by about 14
percent during peak hours, and about 400 million people have no
access to power, according to the  United Nations .  While European governments have cut preferential rates paid
to solar-plant operators amid an escalating debt crisis, India
is driving down its costs by forcing utilities and developers to
compete on price.  Winners of India’s national solar-capacity auction in
December agreed to supply power for an average rate of 8.78
rupees (17 cents) a kilowatt-hour by early 2013.  In comparison, electricity from burning state-subsidized
diesel costs generators about 17 rupees, according to Charanjit Singh, an energy analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. The cheapest
power comes from burning coal, which is about 4 rupees a
kilowatt-hour, though users must be connected to the grid.  Bharti, Jain  Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile-phone
operator, and  Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. (JI) , the world’s biggest
mango-puree producer and supplier to Coca-Cola, are among
companies swapping diesel generators for photovoltaic modules.  While Airtel’s Bharti Infratel unit typically runs its
phone towers on the cheapest, grid-delivered power, it estimates
that electricity from diesel costs about four times as much.  The company upgraded 1,646 out of about 22,000 rural sites
that get little or no grid-connected power to run on solar and
other renewable sources, it said in an e-mail.  The government’s Telecom Regulatory Authority  recommended 
this month that at least 75 percent of rural mobile towers and
33 percent of urban towers run on a combination of solar, wind
and diesel by 2020. India’s 300,000 mobile towers account for
about 4 percent of diesel use, according to HSBC’s Singh.  Jain Irrigation will complete an 8.5-megawatt solar project
in March to replace diesel-fired output at its processing plant
in Jalgaon, Maharashtra, CEO Anil Jain said Jan. 3. The company
estimates it could recoup the cost in as little as five years.  Solar Target  India, the third-biggest energy user behind  China  and the
U.S., has a goal to have installed 20,000 megawatts of solar-
energy capacity by 2022, about equal to 18 new nuclear reactors.  That target is 10 percent of today’s total generating
capacity including all energy sources. Less than 1 percent of
that current power base is solar.  India’s solar industry has benefited from tax breaks and a
guaranteed government buyer of its cleaner power. Diesel
generation has been helped by state subsidies that make the fuel
cost less than the market price to cap inflation.  The diesel price set for the capital Delhi was at 32
percent below the market rate as of Jan. 16, according to market
data published by the nation’s Oil Ministry.  Factories burn diesel during blackouts to maintain a
constant  power source . Their “huge” warehouses and empty
rooftops make them a “prime candidate” for solar power, said
Hari Manoharan, an analyst at Energy Alternatives India. Indian
manufacturers are losing more than 432 billion rupees a year as
a result of power failures, Manoharan said in a December report.  GTL, Acme  GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI) , a Mumbai-based owner of 32,000
phone towers, said it’s saving 56,000 liters of diesel a year
after installing solar panels. Acme Telepower Ltd., a Gurgaon-
based company converting sites for Viom Networks Ltd. and
Bharti, estimates the panels can cut the diesel running time of
a rural tower to eight hours a day from 22, it said Jan. 10.  India charges the highest power prices to industrial and
commercial consumers such as factories, mines and malls, and
gives away free power to farmers for irrigation pumps. As the
cost of solar falls, more businesses are deciding it makes
sense, said Akhilesh Magal, an analyst at Bridge to India.  “Things that weren’t feasible have suddenly opened up,”
Magal said. “As prices drop, you suddenly see huge segments of
the market open up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 