-- Somalia Hostages Freed by U.S. Special Forces in Pre-Dawn Helicopter Raid
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-25T17:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/somalia-hostages-freed-by-u-s-special-forces-in-pre-dawn-helicopter-raid.html
U.S. commandos, including some from
the Navy SEAL unit that killed  Osama Bin Laden , freed two
kidnapped aid workers in Somalia, an American woman and a Danish
man, in a raid today that ended their three months of captivity.  Jessica Buchanan, 32, and Poul Hagen Thisted, 60, were
rescued and were taken to a safe location unharmed, Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in a  statement  on the U.S. Defense
Department’s website.  The U.S. Africa Command, which has U.S. military
responsibility for the continent, said in a  statement  that nine
kidnappers were killed in the pre-dawn assault. The kidnappers
were armed and had explosives nearby, officials said.  “The  United States  will not tolerate the abduction of our
people, and will spare no effort to secure the safety of our
citizens and to bring their captors to justice,” President
 Barack Obama  said in a statement today, praising troops who
carried out the mission.  The raid was the second major commando operation Obama has
publicly acknowledged ordering since coming into office. The
first was the U.S. Navy SEAL team raid in  Pakistan  that killed
bin Laden in May.  Like the raid on bin Laden’s hideout in Pakistan, the
rescue mission was carried out by special operations forces from
a number of military services utilizing intelligence collected
by the CIA, the National Security Agency and the National
Geospatial Intelligence Agency, according to a U.S. defense
official familiar with the operation.  Military Team  They included the Navy’s elite counterterrorist Special
Warfare Development Group, formerly known as SEAL Team Six,
based at Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Ft. Story,
Virginia; helicopters and aircrews from the Army’s 160th Special
Operations Aviation Regiment headquartered at Ft. Campbell,
 Kentucky ; intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft
from the  Air Force ’s 24th Special Tactics Squadron based at Pope
Air Force Base,  North Carolina ; and Air Force pararescue
personnel, according to the official who wasn’t authorized to
discuss the operation publicly.  The Pentagon’s new strategy places heavy emphasis on the
use of U.S. special operations forces in both counter-terrorism
and foreign assistance roles.  Black Hawk Down  The quick in-and-out raid contrasts with the 1993 “Black
Hawk Down” experience in Somalia. In that case, 18 U.S.
military personnel were killed in the capital, Mogadishu, in an
ill-fated U.S. helicopter mission during an international
humanitarian effort in the war-torn nation.  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in an e-mail that
Obama was referring to the raid when he was overheard by
television microphones praising Panetta in the U.S. House
chamber before the State of the Union address yesterday evening.
“Leon, good job tonight,” Obama was heard saying. “Good job
tonight.”  The mission was still under way “when the president was at
the podium,” Little said.  The raid was executed because of an “added sense of
urgency and after the timing was determined to be right,”
Little said.  Buchanan’s “deteriorating” health was a factor that
“contributed to the sense of urgency,” said Navy Captain John
Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman. “But there were other factors. It
was ‘actionable intelligence on where she was, who had her and
her Danish colleague,’’ Kirby said. ‘‘There was a window of
opportunity that we felt we had to take advantage of.’’  On-Going Operation  Little and Kirby said there was close coordination with the
FBI before and during the raid, which Obama authorized Monday.  ‘‘The military commanders decided to move ahead with this
yesterday,’’ Little said.  ‘‘The assault team landed early evening’’  Washington  time,
Little said. Somalia is eight hours ahead of Washington, making
the operation Wednesday local time.  ‘‘The operation was not over until a number of hours later
when the hostages were secured.’’  Buchanan and Thisted were abducted on Oct. 25 in Galkayo,
about 575 kilometers (358 miles) northwest of Somalia’s capital,
Mogadishu, while visiting a demining project there, according to
their employer, the Copenhagen-based  Danish Refugee Council .  The U.S. military had been monitoring the two hostages
since their capture, Kirby said.  Connecting the Dots  ‘‘Within the last week we were able to connect enough dots
that we were able to make the decisions that we made,’’ Kirby
said.  The Danish Refugee Council was ‘‘informed of the
possibility of a rescue operation taking place, but knew of no
specific details on how and when,’’ Ann Mary Olsen, head of the
Council’s International Department, said on the group’s website.
‘‘What we know for sure, and what is most important for us, is
that Poul and Jessica are now free. We thank those who have
ended this extreme ordeal and criminal act that Jessica and Poul
were victims of.”  Criminal gangs and pirates operating from Somalia have
previously targeted foreigners for ransom. Gunmen abducted an
American man in Galkayo on Jan. 21, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing an unidentified Somali minister.  The Africa Command said it acted on a request from the U.S.
Justice Department for assistance. The operation began following
receipt of “actionable intelligence,” according to a statement
on its website.  Abductors Killed  The nine abductors were killed in a fire-fight to secure
the location and the hostages were found after the assault
stopped, the Stuttgart, Germany-based Africa Command said.  Kirby said there is no “firm linkage” establishing that
the kidnappers were pirates or connected to pirate operations.  Somalia descended into chaos after the ouster of dictator
Mohammed Siad Barre in 1991. Al-Shabaab, the Islamic militant
group with links to al-Qaeda, has been battling Somalia’s
Western-backed transitional federal government for five years
and controls most of the country’s south and central regions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  