-- South Korea’s Economic Growth Weakens as Exports Sink on Europe: Economy
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-01-26T02:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/south-korea-economy-grows-at-slowest-pace-in-five-quarters-on-global-slump.html
South Korea’s economy grew the
least in two years in the fourth quarter as exports sank
because of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a faltering
global expansion.  Gross domestic product  expanded 0.4 percent from the
third quarter, when it gained 0.8 percent, the central bank
said in Seoul today. That was less than the median 0.5
percent estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
From a year earlier, growth was 3.4 percent.  A U.S. Federal Reserve pledge yesterday to keep interest
rates low through at least late 2014 and a report showing a
contraction in the U.K. economy highlighted the global
weakness that has triggered monetary easing in  Asia . South
Korea’s economy is likely to shrink this quarter and the
central bank may cut borrowing costs in April and July,
Nomura Holdings Inc. says.  “There won’t be much choice for the  Bank of Korea  other
than to cut rates” if the export slump worsens and first-
quarter economic growth deteriorates, said Park Sang Hyun
chief economist at Seoul-based HI Investment & Securities Co.  On Jan. 24,  India ’s central bank unexpectedly cut the
amount of deposits lenders need to set aside as reserves for
the first time since 2009.  Thailand  reduced interest rates
yesterday.  Indonesia  will boost  government spending  to offset
a slowdown in exports and investment, Bambang Brodjonegoro,
the head of fiscal policy at the nation’s finance ministry,
said in an interview yesterday.  Fed’s Support  Asian stocks rose today on the Fed’s plans to support
U.S. growth, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index advancing 0.6
percent as of 10:57 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Across the Asia Pacific region,  New Zealand  kept
 interest rates  on hold today,  Singapore  will report
industrial output and  Hong Kong  is due to release trade data
for December. Japan said its public debt will probably rise
to a record 1,085.5 trillion yen ($14 trillion) in the year
ending March 2013.  In Europe today, a report may show unemployment rates
rising in Scandinavia. Sweden’s jobless rate is estimated to
increase to 7 percent in December from 6.7 percent a month
earlier, while  Denmark ’s rate may advance to 6.3 percent from
6.2 percent, according to the median forecasts in surveys of
economists.  Other European figures may show German and French
consumer confidence steadying, while Italian household
sentiment may have risen this month. The U.K. yesterday
reported a 0.2 percent economic contraction in the fourth
quarter from the third.  U.S. Jobless Claims  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show
orders for durable goods rose 2 percent in December, a third
straight monthly advance, according to a survey of economists.
At the U.S. Labor Department, data may show initial claims
for jobless benefits in the week ended Jan. 21 gained to
370,000 from 352,000. Those reports may be followed by
figures showing improvement in new home sales and a leading
economic index, according to economists.  In  South Korea , exports fell in the final three months
of 2011 for the first time in two years and investment and
consumption also declined, today’s report showed.  Overseas shipments dropped 1.5 percent from the third
quarter, when they gained 2.2 percent, today’s report showed.
Corporate investment in facilities fell 5.2 percent from the
previous quarter, when it slid 0.8 percent, while private
consumption decreased 0.4 percent after advancing 0.4 percent.  ‘Tepid’ Demand  South Korea’s economy may contract 0.1 percent in the
three months ending March from the previous quarter because
of weaker exports and “tepid” domestic demand, according to
Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura.
Besides rate cuts, politicians may combat the slump with a 12
trillion won ($10.7 billion) supplementary budget, equivalent
to 1 percent of GDP, he said.  South Korea’s  inflation  has remained elevated in part
because a weakening won has made imported goods more
expensive. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year
earlier in November and December, exceeding the central
bank’s target limit of 4 percent.  Risks to South Korea’s economy are increasing and
 inflation  may ease at a moderate pace as growth slows for
some time before picking up, the central bank said on Jan. 13,
deciding by a unanimous vote to keep the main benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a seventh month. South Korea may
enter a normal recovery path in the second half of the year,
Governor Kim Choong Soo said that day.  The BOK forecast in December that the economy will grow
3.7 percent in 2012 and 4.2 percent in 2013. The economy
expanded 3.6 percent in 2011, today’s report showed. Consumer
prices may increase 3.3 percent this year after a 4 percent
gain in 2011, according to the projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  