-- South Sudan, Kenyan Governments Sign Accord to Build Oil Pipeline Via Lamu
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-25T09:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/south-sudan-kenya-sign-agreement-to-build-oil-pipeline-to-port-of-lamu.html
South Sudan  and  Kenya  signed a
memorandum of understanding to build an oil pipeline to the
Kenyan port of Lamu, said Barnaba Marial Benjamin, a spokesman
for South  Sudan ’s government.  Construction of the pipeline will begin “as soon as
sources of funding are made available,” which should take about
a month, Benjamin said in a phone interview today from the
capital, Juba. The accord was signed yesterday.  Benjamin said the need for a new pipeline has taken on
added urgency since South Sudan started on Jan. 22 to shut down
oil production because Khartoum is confiscating its crude and
demanding a transportation fee of $32 a barrel. Juba has offered
$1 a barrel. South Sudanese President  Salva Kiir  said Jan. 23
that Sudan has “looted” $815 million worth of his country’s
oil.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it gained independence in
July. The crude is pumped mainly by  China National Petroleum
Corp (CNPZ) .,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  Benjamin said Kenya and South Sudan have been discussing
plans for a new pipeline over the past few years and have
identified possible investors, including Toyota East Africa.  Negotiations between the two countries in Addis Ababa, the
Ethiopian capital, have been extended until “some kind of
agreement” is reached on how much landlocked South Sudan will
pay to transport its oil across Sudan to the  Red Sea , Benjamin
said.  South Sudan says Sudan is seizing exports that pass through
its territory to an export terminal on the Red Sea. Sudan says
it is diverting the crude to cover unpaid bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  