-- South Sudan Says Oil Shutdown to Have ‘Big’ Impact on Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-25T16:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/south-sudan-says-oil-shutdown-to-have-big-impact-on-economy.html
South Sudan  is considering measures
to offset the impact on its economy of a halt to oil production
the country is carrying out in retaliation for what it says is
the theft of its crude by neighboring Sudan.  The East African country has stopped output at more than
300 wells and there is “reduced production” at 600 more, said
 Pagan Amum , the south’s chief negotiator in talks being held in
Addis Ababa aimed at ending a dispute with Sudan on oil tariffs.
Output is expected to decline to 135,000 barrels per day by the
end of today, from 275,000 barrels previously, he said.  South Sudan says Sudan is seizing oil that passes through
its territory to an export terminal on the  Red Sea  and is
demanding $32 a barrel in transportation fees. Sudan says it is
diverting the crude to cover unpaid bills. South Sudanese
President Salva Kiir said on Jan. 23 Sudan has “looted” $815
million worth of his country’s oil. The country depends on oil
for more than 90 percent of its revenue, Amum said today.  “We will lose these for some time, a number of years
maybe,” he said. “It is definitely going to have a big impact,
but we have no option.”  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it gained independence from
its northern neighbour in July. The crude is pumped mainly by
 China National Petroleum Corp. (135) , Malaysia’s  Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. (PET)  and India’s  ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC)   South Sudan is looking for alternative ways to export its
oil and plans to approach the Ethiopian government to sign a
memorandum of understanding for a pipeline to be built via the
neighboring country to the Horn of Africa port of Djibouti, Amum
said. Yesterday, the government signed an accord with Kenya to
build a pipeline to the coastal town of Lamu.  To end the halt to production halt, Sudan must accept
transportation fees of less than $1 per barrel and “immediately”
pay for the stolen oil, Amum said.  “If the government of Sudan agrees to relate to us in terms
of equality and just relations, relations that are based on
pursuit of mutual interest and enlightened interest, we will be
ready to resume production,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 