-- Spanish Cleanup Plan May Backfire on Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-25T10:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/spanish-cleanup-plan-may-backfire-on-banks.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s proposal to force banks to recognize further losses from
real estate holdings may backfire by saddling healthy lenders
with the bill.  “The plan is for a massive effort in provisioning of real
estate and consolidation, and that has to be paid for,” said
Daragh Quinn, a Madrid-based analyst at Nomura International.  By refusing to use public funds to help purge a system
burdened with 176 billion euros ($228 billion) of what the Bank
of Spain calls “troubled” assets linked to real estate, Rajoy
may not do the job properly or he may hurt solvent banks by
leaving them with the costs, said  David Moss , director of
European equities at F&C Investments in London.  Rajoy wants to make banks accurately value assets piled up
on their books as part of his efforts to lower  Spain ’s borrowing
costs and free up the flow of credit in the economy. Investors
demand about 763 basis points more yield to hold  Bankia SA (BKIA) ’s
senior unsecured bonds maturing in 2017 than similar German
bunds, up from about 46 basis points when the securities were
sold in 2007.  Since Rajoy was elected on Nov. 20, the rate on 10-year
Spanish debt has declined 124 basis points to 5.45 percent.  Rajoy wants to avoid committing public funds as he battles
to bring down a deficit that was 8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011, exceeding the 6 percent target from the
outgoing Socialist government. He announced 15 billion euros of
immediate spending cuts and tax increases last month to narrow
the gap.  “If the public purse doesn’t get used at all, this can
only mean this whole process happens more slowly and it might
take longer to make the impact that’s needed,” Moss said.  Britain to U.S.  Rajoy’s reluctance to deploy public money compares with the
strategy of the U.K., where taxpayers provided 1 trillion pounds
($1.56 trillion) for bailouts and guarantees to shore up the
financial system. As part of the U.S. response to bolster its
banking industry, the Congress authorized the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008, of which $411 billion was
dispersed.  Government officials in  Madrid  have started to give details
of how the cleanup of damaged real-estate assets pledged in
Rajoy’s election manifesto might work. Spanish banks face as
much as 50 billion euros of additional provisions, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos, a former head of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s Iberian business, said earlier this month.  Most lenders can cover the extra provisioning for real
estate from their profits and the process could be extended over
several years, de Guindos said.  Apartment Values  “There’s an issue, which is also fundamental, which is
that banks and savings banks are filling up with real estate
assets and apartments and because these apartments are not
valued at market prices, they don’t go to market,” de Guindos
told state broadcaster TVE today in an interview.  Banks will have to reduce their earnings as part of the
cleanup process as the government also coaxes some into mergers,
de Guindos told TVE. He said he “absolutely” ruled out setting
up a so-called bad bank to acquire damaged assets from lenders
because doing so would cost public money. The cleanup process
won’t “cost a penny more” to the taxpayer, he told TVE.  Rajoy, 56, has said he favors bank mergers. He is scheduled
to unveil additional details of the program by mid-February.  “What the government could be looking to do is to
mutualize some of the potential capital shortfall,” Nomura’s
Quinn said.  What’s Credible?  Rajoy’s plan to make banks increase provisions looks like
an extension of an existing order dating from 2010 for banks to
bolster reserves to cover bad real estate, Quinn said. That rule
made banks set aside provisions to cover 30 percent of the value
of property taken onto their balance sheets after two years.  “Was that a credible response?” said Quinn. “The fact
they’re having to do it again gives you your answer.”  Doubts about how the cleanup will be paid for center on the
scale of the potential cost for banks with the greatest amount
of damaged real estate, said  John Raymond , bank analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  London .  The 176 billion euros of the so-called troubled real
estate-linked assets is 52 percent of total developer loans and
provisions have been set aside to cover about a third of the
amount, according to the Bank of Spain.  “It’s hard to unsay a number like 50 billion euros once
you’ve said it,” Raymond said. “The government might indeed be
forced to put some more capital into the banks and it won’t
necessarily be easy for them to fund it.”  Santander to Bankia  While companies such as  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  have  profitable international units  to
help absorb property-related losses, other lenders may be
vulnerable, said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at  Banco BPI
SA (BPI)  in Oporto,  Portugal .  Bankia and its parent company, formed from the merger of
seven savings banks to create Spain’s third-biggest lender, held
more than 11 billion euros of acquired or foreclosed real estate
as of last March, including a net 3.1 billion euros of land.  It would cost about 3 billion euros to boost the ratio of
provisions covering acquired or foreclosed real estate on the
group’s books to more than 50 percent from 32 percent as of last
March, according to Peixoto.  He also estimates  Bankia (BKIA)  will have to set aside 2 billion
euros over the next two years as other portions of its loan book
turn sour. That compares with his estimate for profit before
provisions of 4.2 billion euros in the next two years.  Santander Provisions  “My view is that BFA-Bankia will not be able to solve this
problem by themselves,” said Ricardo Wehrhahn, a partner at
Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in Madrid.  A Bankia spokeswoman, who refused to be identified,
declined to comment.  Santander will make a provision of about 4 billion euros
against 2011 earnings to anticipate tougher rules on recognizing
real estate losses, El Confidencial reported today. A spokesman
for the bank, who asked not to be identified by name in line
with company policy, declined to comment.  Spain has made healthy banks  pay  for the restructuring of
 Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo , an Alicante, Spain-based
lender that was seized last July by the Bank of Spain because of
souring property loans. The nation’s deposit guarantee fund,
which is financed by the country’s banks, is set to inject 5.25
billion euros into CAM before it’s acquired by Banco Sabadell SA.  ‘Tremendously Unfair’  The government in December ordered banks to increase their
contributions to the fund in a step that angered bankers. At a
Jan. 19 news conference, Maria Dolores Dancausa, chief executive
officer of Madrid-based  Bankinter SA (BKT) , described the extra
charges on deposits as “tremendously unfair.”  It’s possible the government may be tempted to force
stronger banks such as Santander, BBVA and CaixaBank to absorb
weaker companies or those already taken over by the government’s
bank rescue fund, Santiago Lopez, a Madrid-based analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a Jan. 18 note to clients.  As many as seven lenders, including  Banco de Valencia SA ,
CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim, have either been seized or otherwise
taken over by the Bank of Spain. While the probability of
enforced takeovers is low, “it is not zero anymore” given the
government’s refusal to provide public funds to bail out failing
lenders, Lopez said.  In his interview today with TVE, de Guindos said the
government had no intention of choosing merger partners for
banks.  “If the government passes the cost of bailing out the
weaker banks to the stronger banks, then no bank could be
investible whilst this event risk persists,” said Georg Grodzki,
head of credit research at Legal & General Investment Management
in London. “The government would limit its fiscal costs, but
the uncertainty about forced bailouts would put off investors
even from stronger institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  