-- Springsteen Rants, Cohen Growls, Lana Del Rey Faces Tigers: CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/springsteen-rants-cohen-growls-lana-del-rey-faces-tigers-cds.html
Bruce Springsteen  has released
another unofficial national anthem, this one for our times.  His new song builds up to a chorus, “wherever this flag is
flown,” and the repeated title “We Take Care of Our Own.”  Like the much-misunderstood “Born in the U.S.A.” before
it, this isn’t unthinking patriotism. The words can be taken as
a positive or a negative comment on the American dream. You can
interpret it as either the U.S. looks after its citizens
wherever the star-spangled banner flies or that the government
and American families care for their loved ones only.  Springsteen’s career has a bedrock of blue-collar angst,
along with all those tales about horsepower and elusive babes.
He can’t resist a politically charged rant: “Where’s the work
that set my hands, my soul free? Where’s the spirit that’ll
reign over me?”  The Boss, at 62, doesn’t have any worries about losing his
well-paid job. Still, if you can stand the slogans, here we have
a song as timely as “The Rising,” after 9/11, or “Working on
a Dream,” full of optimism over Obama.  “Wrecking Ball,” a number familiar to those who follow
his concerts, hammers the theme: “Hard times come, hard times
go ... just to come again.” This is the title track of an album
due in March and said by its author to be his most outspoken.  The driving rock sound has new textures, though it is
essentially unchanged for decades -- apart from the sad loss of
sax player Clarence Clemons, who died last June.  The band was been in tight form and the result will please 
fans. If anyone is entitled to mimic Springsteen, it’s the man
himself. He does it so well.  Rating: ****.  Leonard Cohen  has been in London to showcase songs off
“Old Ideas,” set for release on Jan. 31. As the title
suggests, the songwriter is delivering his own state-of-the-
world report from the perspective of a 77-year-old.  Critics had been expecting good things -- and the new
material is even better than hoped.  “I’ve got no future, I know my days are few,” Cohen
growls. “I thought the past would last me, but the darkness got
that too.” That’s a sample from “The Darkness,” and there are
plenty more couplets as sharp as Cohen’s double-breasted suits.  Rating: *****.  Lana Del Rey’s “Born to Die” single is worth hearing too.
It’s the title song of her album, also out on Jan. 31. (It 
started to leak online late yesterday.)  I’ve been playing her three-track  radio promo CD  for weeks.
You can get an idea of what it’s like by going to her  website ,
which has the video for the song and its haunting predecessor
“Video Games.”   I love the video, with its star sitting on a heavenly
throne flanked by yawning tigers. There’s a flashback sequence
of a wild ride to a car-crash inferno with her tattooed lover
more interested in Del Rey’s lips than staying on the road.  Del Rey recently was panned on  Twitter  for her awkward
performance on “Saturday Night Live.” Someone wrote me to ask,
“Is she a savior or shamster?”  I don’t think it’s an “either-or.” Del Rey has moved on
from a scruffy image under her real name Elizabeth Grant,
lowered her voice and now comes across as an eerie mix of Nancy Sinatra and Tori Amos.  She has the quirkiness of Regina Spektor and Alanis Morissette. The lyrics are adventurous and the conventional lush
strings put her at the commercial end of the spectrum. Del Rey
just needs to outgrow the hype fast if she’s to have a long
career.  Rating: ***½.  Rodrigo y Gabriela, the Mexican duo who have been wowing
audiences with their superfast acoustic-guitar work, are back
with “Area 52.” The CD adds a backing band with Cuban spice to
their 12-string thrashes and it’s a fine introduction to the
pair.  Rating: ***.  All the singles are out now, along with Rodrigo y
Gabriela’s CD, which is on ATO Records. Del Rey’s album is
released by Interscope and Cohen’s by Columbia on Jan. 31.
Springsteen’s album on Columbia follows on March 6.  Information:  http://www.brucespringsteen.net ,
 http://www.lanadelrey.com ,  http://www.leonardcohen.com  and
 http://www.rodgab.com/   Single download fees vary across services. The albums are
priced from about $12 in the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K.
Release dates are for the U.S.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 