-- St. Jude Shares Climb as Contracts Surge for Defibrillator Technology
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-25T21:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/st-jude-shares-climb-as-contracts-surge-for-defibrillator-technology.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , a maker of
devices to treat irregular heartbeats, rose 4.5 percent after
the company said there is strong demand for its new cardiac
defibrillator technology.  St. Jude  gained  $1.74 to close at $40.30 in New York.
Shares of the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company have fallen 5.4
percent in the past 12 months.  The device maker has 150 new customer contracts signed for
its Quadripolar technology, just eight weeks after receiving
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for the system  that
gives doctors flexibility when implanting devices used to shock
a stopped heart. The four-electrode wire allows physicians to
adjust electrical impulses without surgically moving the wires.  “Each contract reflects an expected gain in market share
in 2012 in the hospital or health-care system covered by the
contract,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Starks said today on
a conference call with analysts and investors. “It’s already in
hand. That, as a start, gives us a very high confidence that as
all the dynamics net against each other, we will gain market
share here in 2012.”  Fourth-Quarter Earnings  Fourth-quarter  earnings  excluding one-time items rose 9.2
percent to $274.3 million, or 86 cents a share, from $251.1
million, or 75 cents, a year earlier, the company said. The
earnings exceeded the 84 cent average of 24 analyst estimates
 compiled  by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4 percent to $1.41 billion.  St. Jude forecast 2012 profit of $3.43 to $3.48 a share,
with currency exchange rates shaving $130 million to $175
million from sales during the year, Chief Financial Officer John Heinmiller said.  The Quadripolar system has a higher average sales price
than older models and is attracting new physicians to St. Jude,
Heinmiller said in a telephone interview. Those who have used it
say it’s easier and faster to implant, and exposes patients to
less radiation, he said.  “With that kind of reaction, the word gets around and
maybe people we don’t have as close relationship with would want
to try it,” he said. “It gets a foot in the door.”  St. Jude has become a referendum on the $6.7 billion global
market for implanted defibrillators, said Raj Denhoy, an analyst
for Jefferies & Co. in  New York , in a telephone interview.  Doctor Unease  There may be lingering unease among doctors about using the
company’s defibrillator leads, Denhoy said. While there haven’t
been insulation issues with the company’s newer Durata leads,
St. Jude was forced to recall the older Riata device in December
because of higher-than-expected failure rates.  There are about 80,000 Riata leads still implanted in
patients, Denhoy said. Extracting them after the wires have
penetrated the insulation and may not work properly is
difficult, he said. As many as 4,000 or 5,000 patients may need
them removed if the situation worsens, which may lead some
clinicians to avoid St. Jude devices, he said.  The company’s sales target is a bet that the sluggish
market is going to bottom out and start to improve, Denhoy said.  “It’s an evolving situation,” he said. “I’m a little
skeptical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  