-- Stanford Invented Offshore Bank’s U.K. Insurer, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/stanford-invented-insurance-company-for-bank-depositors-prosecutor-says.html
R. Allen Stanford failed to tell a
financial adviser he hired for his first offshore bank that the
insurer he selected for the institution was a company he
created, a federal prosecutor told a jury.  Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach made that claim
yesterday while questioning the adviser, Michelle Chambliess, on
the first day of testimony at the federal courthouse in Houston,
where Stanford is on trial charged with investment fraud.  Chambliess said she was one of Stanford’s first hires in
1987, at Guardian International Investment Services, a U.S.-
based sibling of Stanford’s Montserrat-based Guardian
International Bank Ltd. Guardian was the precursor to Stanford
International Bank Ltd., the Antiguan entity at the heart of
Stanford’s alleged $7 billion fraud.  Stanford told her he’d obtained insurance for the bank from
a carrier called British Insurance Fund Ltd., which appeared to
be an independent U.K.-based company.  “Did he ever tell you it was a shell company he had set
up?” Stellmach asked.  “No,” Chambliess replied.  ‘Any Difference’  “Would that have made any difference to you?” he asked.  “Absolutely,” she said. “Then there wouldn’t be
insurance.”  The Guardian bank later moved to Antigua, where it was
renamed. Stanford is charged with  wire fraud  and mail fraud,
crimes that carry maximum sentences of 20 years in prison, as
well as obstruction of an SEC investigation. U.S. District Judge
David Hittner has said the trial may last about six weeks.  Stanford, 61, told the jury Jan. 24 he isn’t guilty.
Yesterday, wearing a double-breasted navy suit and a light blue
shirt, he occasionally pursed his lips and shook his head as he
watched his ex-employees testify against him.  The bank’s offshore location made it a tax haven for
depositors and removed it from U.S. regulatory oversight and the
backing of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Chambliess
testified. Its money-market accounts and certificates of deposit
offered higher rates of return than those of banks required to
comply with U.S. reserve regulations and tax laws, she said.  Fired in 2002  The financial adviser said she was fired in 2002, after
working for Stanford for almost 15 years, when she lost her
three largest clients and her CD sales dropped. By that time,
she said, she had already started circulating her resume because
Stanford had told her to “do whatever you need to do” to land
a client.  That advice left her “flabbergasted,” she testified.  Chambliess told the court she learned that Stanford and
some of his businesses borrowed money from the bank from a
disclosure in Stanford’s 1996 annual report. She said she was
surprised by the loans, as Stanford had promised investors and
employees that the bank didn’t make commercial loans and
invested solely in high-grade liquid assets.  The document said the financier personally borrowed $13.5
million while two affiliated companies borrowed an additional
$11 million. When she asked about the loans, Chambliess said
Stanford replied that he’d guaranteed the loans with his own
liquid assets “and there was no risk” it wouldn’t be repaid.  Annual Report  The ex-employee said a disclosure in the company’s 1998
annual report indicated Stanford repaid the personal loan in
full, along with $480,000 interest.  She said there were no subsequent disclosures of lending to
Stanford or any of his companies and that financial advisers
weren’t told Stanford continued to invest depositor funds in
outside ventures ranging from regional airlines to newspapers.  Employees believed “the bank’s money stayed at the bank”
in the conservative, highly liquid portfolio advertised to
investors, Chambliess testified.  Under questioning by defense lawyer Ali Fazel, Chambliess
said the Caribbean bank was subject to different international
accounting standards than what U.S. companies are required to
follow.  Under the international rules, Fazel said, the bank didn’t
need to disclose its loans to Stanford and his companies.  Key Theme  Fazel revisited a key defense theme with Chambliess, that
none of Stanford’s investors lost money until U.S. regulators
seized his operations and destroyed their value.  “Was there anybody who did not get paid their money when
the CDs were due?” Fazel asked Chambliess.  “Not while I was there,” she replied.  Leonel Mejia, who Stanford hired to head a captive
advertising and marketing business called Idea Advertising in
1988, testified he was asked by James Davis, chief financial
officer of the securities brokerage Stanford Group Co., to alter
the coverage dates of an expired copy of a British Insurance
Fund document.  Mejia said he declined to do so because he believed he was
tampering with a legal document. Davis asked Mejia if he’d make
the changes with permission from the owner of the British
insurer. When he agreed, Davis and Stanford showed him papers
indicating Stanford owned the insurance company, Mejia said.  CD Rates  Mejia, an El Salvador native, also testified that Stanford
purposely set his bank CD rates two to four percentage points
higher than U.S. rates to attract investors willing to forgo
FDIC insurance on their deposits to get a better return.  “He said that people were willing to risk their money for
2 percent, they’re greedy,” Mejia said. “It was not very
respectful to his clients, in my opinion.”  Mejia also testified that Stanford and Davis changed
numbers in the bank’s 1988 annual report using a handheld
calculator. The bank’s auditor in Antigua signed off on the
revised numbers by fax 15 minutes later.  “It took me more time to do my checkbook,” Mejia said of
the auditor’s rapid approval. “I thought that was quick.”  Questioned by Fazel, Mejia said he didn’t know if Stanford
and Davis were consulting with the auditor and accountants in
another room when they changed the annual report numbers.  “You’re speculating and guessing about everything, aren’t
you,” Fazel asked Mejia. While disagreeing with that assertion,
Mejia conceded that his knowledge of Stanford’s financial empire
was limited.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  