-- Starwood Says U.S. Hotel Occupancy Above Pre-Crisis Levels
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-25T14:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/starwood-says-u-s-hotel-occupancy-above-pre-crisis-levels-2-.html
Occupancy rates at U.S. hotels run
by  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc . are back above their
level before the financial crisis started, according to
President Matthew Avril.  “We are very bullish about the United States,” Avril said
in an interview at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland. “We are back to pre-crisis level in occupancy
throughout our system in  North America .”  Last year was the first since 2008 that the U.S. hotel
industry reported occupancy of more than 60 percent and an
average daily room rate above $100,  Smith Travel Research Inc .
of Hendersonville, Tennessee, reported Jan. 23. Occupancy rose
4.4 percent in 2011 to 60.1 percent and the average rate was
$101.64, a 3.7 percent increase.  Starwood, owner of brands including W and  St. Regis , opened
27 hotels in North America last year and plans to open 20 more
in 2012, the Stamford, Connecticut-based company said in a
statement yesterday.  Avril also expressed confidence about other regions where
the company operates hotels.  “We, like many others, have seen and continue to see
tremendous growth in the Asia-Pacific region,” he said. “We
continue to see tremendous growth in the  Middle East .”  Starwood has more than 50 hotels in the Middle East. Even
after revolts in the region, “we continue to see people looking
for investment and development opportunities throughout the
Middle East,” Avril said.  In Europe, where Starwood has about 150 hotels, “everybody
recognizes there are some challenges and difficulty,” he said.
“It seems the emerging consensus is that  Europe  may be in for a
moderate recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net . 