-- Stocks in Switzerland Drop as Novartis Earnings Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-25T16:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/stocks-in-switzerland-slide-lonza-novartis-roche-lead-losses-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks  dropped, snapping two
days of gains as health-care shares dragging the Swiss Market
Index lower, after Novartis AG posted quarterly results that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  sank 13 percent after 2011 profit fell and
the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients said it will
replace its chief executive officer. Novartis,  Europe’s biggest
drugmaker by sales , declined 2.5 percent after posting fourth-
quarter results.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs, slipped 2.8 percent after making a hostile bid for
Illumina Inc.  The SMI (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most actively traded
companies, retreated 1 percent to 6,073.36 at the close in
Zurich. Even so, the gauge has  climbed 2.3 percent  so far this
year amid signs that the U.S economy is recovering and as
investors speculated that the euro area will contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. The broader Swiss Performance Index lost
0.9 percent today.  The  Federal Reserve  will release rate forecasts for the
first time today. The Fed will leave  the benchmark rate 
unchanged today, according to a Bloomberg  survey of economists .
The central bank has left its target for overnight loans between
banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and last
month reiterated that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low” rates at least through mid-2013.  Lonza slumped 13 percent to 53.15 Swiss francs, its biggest
slide since 2009. The company reported that 2011 net income fell
to 154 million francs ($165 million) including the acquisition
of Arch Chemicals Inc. The company also said Chairman Rolf Soiron will lead its management as it seeks a new chief
executive officer to replace Stefan Borgas.  ‘Challenging Situation’  “The fact that Stefan Borgas has to leave the company in
our view underpins how challenging the situation at Lonza is,”
Carla Baenziger, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a
note to clients today.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  declined 2.5 percent to 50.70 francs after
saying sales probably won’t grow this year and profitability
will be hurt as the drugmaker’s biggest-selling medicine loses
U.S. patent protection. The company also said its operating-
income margin will be “slightly below” last year’s.  Fourth-quarter net income  excluding some costs rose to $3
billion, or $1.23 a share, from $2.8 billion, or $1.14, a year
earlier.  Analysts had predicted  $1.24 a share, the average of 14
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche, Petroplus Drop  Roche slipped 2.8 percent to 160 francs, its biggest drop
in two months. The company offered about $5.7 billion in cash
for Illumina Inc. to bolster cancer-drug sales, the third time
since 2007 it’s made a hostile bid for a U.S. company.  Roche proposed paying $44.50 a share for Illumina, 18
percent more than yesterday’s closing price. The drugmaker will
put the offer directly to shareholders after the San Diego-based
company was “unwilling to participate in substantive
discussions.”  Petroplus Holdings AG, the refiner that yesterday said it
planned to file for insolvency, slid 13 percent to 21 centimes,
extending yesterday’s 84 percent tumble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  