-- Strong Dollar Advocates Make a Weak Case: Schnidman and Nadler
-- B y   E v a n   A .   S c h n i d m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   J .   N a d l e r
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/strong-dollar-advocates-make-a-weak-case-schnidman-and-nadler.html
In almost every recent Republican
presidential debate, some candidates have advocated for a
“strong dollar.”  Among the more extreme views are the push by Representative
 Ron Paul  for a return to the gold standard and the statement by
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  that  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  may have committed treason, a crime punishable by
death.  What gets lost in this clamor is any discussion of winners
and losers from a strong U.S. currency, and the recent
correlation between the greenback’s strength and declines in the
stock market.  A  study  we recently conducted indicates that investors --
who constantly look for the most predictive correlations and
lead indicators -- could have done little better over the past
five years than by tracking the relationship between the dollar
and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . We found that simply
looking for an intermediate high in the dollar could have
successfully predicted every intermediate  S&P 500  market bottom
over the past five years (see attached figures).  This comparison of USD ( U.S. Dollar  Index) and the SPX (S&P
500) shows that on each of the seven occasions since 2008 when
the  dollar index  reached an intermediate high, the S&P 500 hit
an intermediate low. Perhaps no other asset in recent years has
traded as precisely in (inverse) tandem with the market as the
U.S. dollar. A weaker dollar might be easy fodder for
politicians seeking to score rhetorical points, but it also has
provided fuel for every intermediate market rally since 2009.  Stock Prices  Beginning in late 2008, most major financial-news outlets
conveyed some variation of a tight correlation between a weak
dollar and rising stock prices. Our research finds that since
2008, the correlation has not only persisted but gotten tighter.
In particular, since the European debt crisis worsened in the
spring of 2010, the correlation has been almost perfect; the
dollar drops and stock prices soar.  Various different rationales can be posited as the cause
for this correlation but the most obvious is that a  weak dollar 
means a strong euro, which, in turn, is an indication of
elevated confidence that European leaders have come up with a
solution to the crisis.  If this is true, then the correlation may disappear as the
euro area stabilizes. That doesn’t seem likely to happen any
time soon and the relationship between a weak dollar and stock-
market gains is likely to persist.  Traditionally, American consumers buying cheap imported
goods have benefited from the  strong dollar . However, in many
cases, this benefit is offset because these same consumers of
cheap foreign goods also tend to be producers of American goods
that are less marketable globally as a result of the strong
dollar.  In recent years, however, it has become easier for U.S.
companies to produce cheaper goods abroad that are then sold to
American consumers. In many cases, the owners of these
businesses have benefited from a strong dollar even if American
workers haven’t. Still, those workers also may directly benefit
from a weak dollar because it reduces their personal debt load
in real terms.  The U.S. government is perhaps the most obvious beneficiary
because a weak dollar means  budget deficits  (and the larger
national debt) are worth less in real terms, lowering the cost
of servicing the debt and potentially making it easier to
eventually bring the fiscal shortfall under control.  Yuan Appreciation  Moreover, some politicians (including several who profess a
desire for a strong dollar) have, in effect, advocated for a
weaker currency by pressing  China  to allow the yuan to
appreciate.  So who really wants a strong dollar? The Republican
presidential candidates made this one of their themes of this
election year by issuing threats to the supposedly independent
Federal Reserve. Yet this position isn’t wholly rational. While
some American consumers might benefit, most producers wouldn’t
and almost all equity investors would be harmed.  If you have a stock portfolio, retirement account or
 pension plan , you might well benefit from a weak dollar. Alas,
“weak” doesn’t make for a good political sound bite.  ( Evan A. Schnidman  and  Daniel J. Nadler , both Ph.D.
candidates in the Harvard University Department of Government,
are co-directors of the upcoming Harvard University Workshop on
the Economic Crisis, organized through the Harvard Institute for
Quantitative Social Sciences. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Evan A. Schnidman at  evan.schnidman@gmail.com ;
Daniel J. Nadler at  daniel.nadler@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  