-- Switzerland Must Be ‘Vigilant’ on Risks of Franc Limit to Euro, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/switzerland-must-be-vigilant-on-risks-of-franc-limit-fsb-says.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s franc
limit against the euro may cause the country’s economy to
overheat if authorities aren’t vigilant to its effects,
according to a report by the Financial Stability Board.  “The combination of the floor with a protracted low
interest rate environment could potentially result in excessive
credit creation and contribute to the build-up of imbalances in
the domestic real-estate and mortgage markets,” the FSB said in
an assessment of the nation.  It’s “essential” that regulators “remain vigilant in
monitoring trends,” the FSB said. The currency floor is a
“bold stance against an overvaluation” of the Swiss franc, it
said in the report published yesterday.  Property prices have risen in  Switzerland , fueled by zero
 interest rates  and rising demand from foreigners seeking a job.
While increasing the benchmark rate may prevent a property
bubble from emerging, it would also put upward pressure on the
Swiss franc and stand in the way of the limit of 1.20 francs
versus the euro introduced in September to fight deflation
threats. SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan said last month that
“monetary policy is currently unable to react to potential
imbalances in the mortgage market.”  Swiss regulators won FSB praise for imposing tough capital
and supervisory rules on the country’s two biggest lenders,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , in the wake of the crisis that
followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse. These
included a requirement that they hold core reserves equivalent
to ten percent of their assets, weighed for risk.  ‘More Ambitious’  The Swiss measures are “more ambitious in certain
respects” than international rules agreed upon last year for
globally systemic lenders, the FSB said. Follow-up measures
should include ensuring the two banks have a “rigorous
corporate governance framework,” the FSB said.  Authorities should also consider removing government
guarantees of the liabilities of some local, so-called cantonal,
lenders, the FSB said.  The Financial Stability Board brings together regulators,
central bankers and finance ministry officials from the Group of
20 countries. The board coordinates financial rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  