-- Syria May Be Kicked Off UNESCO Human-Rights Panel Amid Crackdown
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-01-25T15:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/syria-may-be-kicked-off-unesco-human-rights-panel-amid-crackdown.html
More than two dozen governments are
backing an initiative to expel  Syria  from UNESCO’s human-rights
committee, a move that would mark the first time the United
Nation’s culture and education agency has removed a member.  The U.S., the U.K.,  Japan ,  Italy ,  Chile , Kuwait and Qatar
are among 26 countries supporting the initiative after Syria was
elected in November to a United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization panel that judges human-rights
complaints. Over half the countries signing on to the proposal
are members of UNESCO’s 58-member executive board.  More than 5,000 people have been killed since last March in
Syria’s crackdown on unrest, according to the UN. Navi Pillay,
the UN’s top human-rights official, has called for a probe into
President Bashar al-Assad’s government for crimes against
humanity and said “gross violations” by Assad’s security
forces should be referred to the  International Criminal Court .  “What is shocking is how UNESCO ever decided in the first
place to legitimize the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-
Assad -- which is shooting its own people in cold blood -- by
elevating it to a committee that judges human-rights issues on a
global scale,” Hillel Neuer, executive director of Geneva-based
human-rights monitoring group UN Watch, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  A letter signed by 14 ambassadors urges UNESCO to “respond
to these appeals for concerted action to address the egregious
human-rights situation in Syria. They want UNESCO to add the
item to the agenda of its board meeting next month, according to
a  copy of their memo  supplied by UN Watch.  Diplomatic Push  Arab and Western nations are planning a diplomatic push at
the UN to persuade  Russia  to back an Arab League call for Assad
to relinquish power. Qatar,  Morocco , the U.S. and the U.K. are
among nations trying to overcome Russian resistance to
sanctioning Syria by promoting a UN Security Council draft
resolution that has strong Arab backing, according to a UN
diplomat who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  The measure “condemns the continued and gross violations
of human rights and fundamental freedoms” by Syrian authorities
and calls for the Assad regime to implement Arab League
resolutions for a “political transition,” according to a copy
of the document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Russia provides both political support and arms to Syria.
Russia and  China , veto-wielding members of the UN Security
Council, blocked a European-led Oct. 4 attempt to sanction
Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 