-- U.K. Acts to Stop Occupy-Style Protests at Venues of London Olympic Games
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-25T12:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-k-acts-to-stop-occupy-style-protests-at-venues-of-london-olympic-games.html
The U.K. government told the
organizers of this year’s London  Olympic Games  to prevent people
from taking camping equipment into venues to avert Occupy-style
protests.  Home Secretary Theresa May said today that the organizing
committee, known as Locog, had been asked to add tents to a
list of banned items for spectators including firearms and
explosives.  “We have clarified and strengthened our policy on
encampment-style protests inside Olympic venues,” May told a
conference on Games security in central London. “Its success
will depend on Locog adding tents and related equipment to the
list of items prohibited from being brought into Games venues. I
trust they will now do so.”  Anti-capitalist protesters from the Occupy movement set up
tented camps by  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in  London ’s financial
district last year. A court ruled last week that they can be
evicted by the City of London Corporation.  The new policy includes screening for camping equipment
being taken to venues, encouraging an immediate response from
the Games organizers and rapid action by police to use “all
available powers” to remove any protest camps that might be set
up, May said.  Bob Broadhurst, who will be commanding the  policing of the
games , urged protest groups to contact him so they could
exercise their right to free speech while avoiding conflict.  “We have no plans whatsoever to stop protests, we’re
incredibly proud in this country, in London in particular, of
our freedom of speech,” Broadhurst said in a speech illustrated
with a picture of Prince Charles’s car after it was attacked
during student demonstrations over college fees in late 2010.  “I have to try and strike the balance between the rights
and needs of protesters, those who’ve come to watch and take
part in the games and the people of London,” Broadhurst said.
“What I’m asking protest groups is if you want to protest, come
and talk to us and we’ll work together. Don’t come late in the
day and challenge us and we end up in conflict; we don’t want
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  