-- U.K. Teeters on Brink of Recession as King Signals More Stimulus: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-25T12:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-k-edges-toward-recession-as-gdp-falls-in-fourth-quarter-1-.html
The  U.K. economy  shrank more than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as manufacturers cut
output and services stagnated, leaving Britain on the brink of
another recession  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent from the third
quarter, when it increased 0.6 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. The median forecast of 33
forecasts in a  Bloomberg survey  was for a drop of 0.1 percent.
Public-sector strikes over pensions on Nov. 30 had “some
impact” on GDP in the quarter, the statistics office said.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
policy makers can increase stimulus again if needed to guard
against a “renewed severe downturn.” The U.K., the first Group
of Seven nation to report fourth-quarter data, may not be the
last to report a contraction.  Germany ’s statistics office
estimated GDP fell about 0.25 percent in the period and the
 International Monetary Fund  has forecast a euro-area recession.  “While a technical recession cannot be ruled out, the
signs are that the economy is turning the corner slowly,”
Barclays Capital economist Blerina Uruci in  London  wrote in an
e-mailed note today. “Nevertheless, with the euro crisis
grinding on, the near-term outlook remains precarious.”  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
GDP report and was trading at $1.5561 as of 12:32 p.m. in
London, down 0.4 percent on the day. The yield on the 10-year
U.K. government bond fell 1 basis point to 2.17 percent.  German Confidence  In the euro area, German  business confidence  jumped more
than economists forecast in January to a five-month high. The
Ifo institute’s business climate index climbed to 108.3 from
107.3 in December. Economists predicted an increase to 107.6,
according a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.K. is also showing “tentative” signs of recovery,
according to the  Confederation of British Industry . Its index of
factory orders rose in January to a four-month high of minus
minus 16 from minus 23. An outlook gauge also increased.  Bank of England policy makers voted unanimously this month
to keep their  target  for bond purchases unchanged, with some
officials saying more stimulus is “likely,” minutes published
today showed. The central bank’s current program of so-called
quantitative easing is due to be completed early next month.  Federal Reserve policy makers conclude a two-day meeting
and will release a statement at 12:30 p.m. in  Washington . The
central bank will also publish forecasts from Federal Open
Market Committee participants for the main interest rate, and
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  plans to hold a press conference.  Stocks Fall  European stocks fell for a second day after Ericsson AB and
Novartis AG posted earnings that missed analysts’ estimates. The
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.8 percent, while the
FTSE-100 Index fell 0.7 percent. Futures contracts on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in March lost 0.3 percent.  In  Asia , the Bank of  Thailand  cut  interest rates  for a
second straight meeting to help spur a recovery from the
nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years and counter moderating
external demand.  Japan  recorded its first annual  trade gap  since 1980 last
year, driven by an energy-import surge as nuclear plants shut
down and by a shift of manufacturing overseas. A third straight
monthly merchandise  trade deficit  in December capped an annual
shortfall of 2.49 trillion yen ($32 billion), the  finance
ministry  said in  Tokyo .  Services Stagnate  The U.K. data showed that  industrial production  fell 1.2
percent in the fourth quarter, with manufacturing contracting
0.9 percent, the most in more than two years. Construction
shrank 0.5 percent, while  services  stagnated. In 2011, GDP rose
0.9 percent versus 2.1 percent in 2010.  With the government constrained by its pledge to all but
eradicate a  budget deficit  of 9 percent of GDP, pressure is
growing on the  Bank of England  to expand its 275 billion-pound
($429 billion) bond-buying program.  “With inflation falling back and wage growth subdued,
there is scope for interest rates to remain low, and, if
necessary, for further asset purchases, to prevent inflation
falling below the 2 percent target,” King said late yesterday.  Turmoil in the euro region,  rising unemployment  and
government austerity measures are sapping confidence in an
economy that has recovered barely a half of the output lost
during the 2008-2009 recession, which was the deepest since
World War II. Only the recoveries in Japan and Italy are further
behind among Group of Seven nations.  The IMF cut its 2012 U.K. growth forecast to 0.6 percent
from 1.6 percent yesterday. Ernst & Young meanwhile says the
U.K. economy may contract again the first quarter, marking its
first double-dip recession in more than three decades.  “These are disappointing figures about what happened to
the economy at the end of last year, but they are not entirely
unexpected because of what’s happening in the world,”
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said, referring to
the GDP data. “Britain has substantial economic problems. But
the truth is that dealing with those problems is made more
difficult by the situation in the  euro zone .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  