-- U.K. Stocks Fall as Economy Shrinks, ECB Blocks Greek Debt Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-01-25T16:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-k-stocks-decline-as-economy-contracts-rbs-barclays-lloyds-decrease.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a second day as
a report showed that Britain’s economy contracted in the fourth
quarter and the European Central bank was said to oppose a Greek
debt restructuring.  Banks retreated, with  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  each losing at least 1 percent.  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM)  climbed 3 percent as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  posted quarterly
profit that more than doubled.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  advanced 1.9
percent after the engineering company announced its second U.S.
takeover in two months.  The  FTSE 100 Index  decreased 28.9, or 0.5 percent, to 5,723
at the close of trading in  London , extending yesterday’s 0.5
percent slide. The gauge has still  gained 2.7 percent  this year,
buoyed by better-than-estimated U.S. economic data and falling
bond yields in the euro area. The FTSE-All Share Index retreated
0.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.2 percent.  “Debt talks over  Greece  are clouding the markets in  Europe 
today as there might not be any voluntary solution in the end,”
said Didier Abbato, a vice president and senior trading adviser
at Saxo Bank in Copenhagen. “If there’s no private-sector
agreement the Greeks may impose a ‘collective action clause’ to
impose a debt rescheduling, which will de facto be a default.”  Greek Bonds  The ECB remains firmly opposed to any restructuring of its
Greek bond holdings as the debt was acquired for monetary policy
purposes, according to two people familiar with the Governing
Council’s stance.  While the ECB faces pressure to join private-sector
investors in taking losses on Greek debt, the  central bank  sees
this as potentially damaging to confidence in the institution if
it were to take part, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  The U.K.’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, leaving the economy on the brink of another
recession, according to data published today by the Office for
National Statistics.  Economists had predicted  GDP would fall 0.1
percent, according to the median of 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  All nine Bank of England policy makers voted unanimously
for no change to the 75 billion-pound ($117 billion) stimulus
program, due to finish this month, according to minutes of the
central bank’s Jan. 11-12 meeting published today. Governor
Mervyn King said yesterday that slower inflation gives policy
makers room to increase bond purchases to guard against a
“renewed severe downturn.”  Fed Rates  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will release rate
forecasts for the first time today. The central bank will keep
 interest rates  at a record low of 0.25 percent, according to  111
economists surveyed  by Bloomberg. Business and political leaders
gathered in Davos, Switzerland, today for the start of the World
Economic Forum’s annual meeting.  Lloyds Banking fell 2.4 percent to 30.9 pence. RBS, the
biggest government-owned British lender, dropped 1.1 percent to
26.75 pence.  Hunting Plc (HTG)  slid 4.5 percent to 792.5 pence. The U.K. oil
and gas engineer was downgraded to “sell” from “hold” at
Liberum Capital.  ARM, the U.K. owner of chip technology used in Apple.’s
iPhone and iPad, rose 3 percent to 597.5 pence.  Apple shares rallied 6.7 percent at 11:44 a.m. in New York
trading after the world’s biggest technology company by market
value reported per-share profit for its fiscal first quarter of
$13.87, more than it had earned in any full year before 2010.
The company forecast revenue of about $32.5 billion and profit
of $8.50 a share for its fiscal second quarter, beating
 analysts’ estimates .  Weir, Ashmore  Weir advanced 1.9 percent to 1,964 pence after agreeing to
buy Novatech LLC for $176 million. The purchase of the maker of
well-service pump valves and valve seats for upstream oil and
gas applications is the second U.S. acquisition in two months by
Weir. The Glasgow, Scotland-based company bought Seaboard
Holdings for $675 million in November.  Ashmore Group (ASHM)  Plc rose 4.2 percent to 370 pence after
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  raised its recommendation on the asset manager’s
shares to “overweight” from “equal weight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  