-- U.K. May Slip Closer to Recession as King Says BOE Can Increase Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-25T08:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-k-may-slip-closer-to-recession-as-king-says-boe-can-increase-stimulus.html
Britain’s economy may slip closer to
a double-dip recession today as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slump
in  consumer spending  undermine exports and domestic demand,
according to economists.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the first decline in a year, according to the median of
33  forecasts  in a Bloomberg News survey. Ernst & Young’s ITEM
Club forecasts another decline in the current quarter, which is
the technical definition of a recession. It would be the first
double dip in almost four decades.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
policy makers can increase so-called quantitative easing again
if needed once their current program of bond purchases ends
early next month. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its U.K.
growth outlook this week as European leaders fight a debt crisis
that’s jeopardizing global expansion.  “In the big scheme, whether GDP expands or contracts by
0.1 percent, it’s still substantially below potential,” said
 Alan Clarke , an economist at  Scotia Capital  in  London . “If we
do enter recession, it is unlikely to be a deep or long one.”  The Office for National Statistics will publish the data at
9:30 a.m. in London. At the same time, the Bank of England will
release minutes of its January meeting, which will show how
policy makers voted this month, when they kept the bond-purchase
target at 275 billion pounds ($429 billion).  Posen’s View  The central bank’s bond purchases have helped to keep gilt
yields close to record lows. The 10-year yield was at 2.17
percent as of 8:08 a.m. London, compared with 1.917 percent on
Jan. 18, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
1989.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said on Jan. 23 that officials will
increase their bond-purchase target next month if new forecasts
for growth and inflation justify more stimulus. The central bank
projected in November that inflation will fall below its 2
percent target at the end of this year.  A double dip would be the first since 1975, when the
economy shrank in the second and third quarters of that year. It
had previously contracted in the nine months through March 1974,
as the oil crisis pushed up global energy prices.  Britain’s economy exited the most recent recession in the
July-September period of 2009 after shrinking for five quarters.  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels over the
past two days signaled they would push  Greece ’s private
investors to accept bigger losses as part of a debt-swap deal.
The brinkmanship over the deal clouded progress toward new
fiscal rules and a beefed-up rescue fund, part of officials’
plan to resolve the debt crisis.  Fiscal Squeeze  In addition to the euro turmoil, the U.K.’s recovery is
being curbed by Prime Minister David Cameron’s fiscal squeeze,
which is undermining  consumer confidence . Unemployment rose to
the highest in almost 16 years in the quarter through November.  Electronics retailer  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  said Jan. 19 that
gross profit as a proportion of sales fell 0.9 percentage points
in the fiscal third quarter due to weak market conditions.  Out of the  33 economists  in the Bloomberg survey, 25
forecast a contraction in the fourth quarter, with the Centre
for Economic and Business Research and Standard Chartered Plc
projecting a 0.7 percent slump. Three economists forecast
stagnation, while five expect expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  