-- BofA, Citigroup Among Banks Facing Margin Pressure From Fed’s Rate Stance
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-s-lenders-face-pressure-on-profit-margins-from-fed-s-policy-on-rates.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  are among lenders that may find it more difficult to boost
profits and capital after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep
its benchmark  interest rate  low until at least late 2014.  “This hurts the banks, I don’t think there’s any question
about that,” said  Ralph Cole , a senior vice president of
research at Ferguson Wellman Inc. in  Portland , Oregon, which
manages $2.9 billion. “Their cost of funds stays low but it
makes it harder to earn a return.”  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that
economic conditions are likely to warrant “exceptionally low
levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.”
The policy may hurt lenders’ profits as they struggle to find
loans or securities with yields high enough to support their net
interest margins, a gauge of profitability that measures the
difference between the cost of funds and what they earn on
assets.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders advanced 0.1 percent,
led by a 2.2 percent gain at Salt Lake City-based Zions Bancorp.
Shares of U.S. insurers, including Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
 Lincoln National Corp. (LNC) , slid as investors bet lower yields will
crimp income from corporate debt, municipal securities and
mortgage-linked assets used by the companies to cover
policyholder obligations and generate profits.  Unwelcome Response  The average net interest margin at the four largest U.S.
banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America, Citigroup and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- dropped to 2.99 percent in the fourth
quarter from 3.17 percent a year earlier. The margin at U.S.
banks with more than $15 billion in assets fell to 3.44 percent
in the third quarter of 2011, from 3.85 percent in the first
quarter of 2010, according to Fed data.  “As a bank investor, this is not a welcome response” from
the Fed, said  Peter Kovalski , a money manager at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC in Purchase,  New York , which manages about
$6 billion. Bank stocks “have had a good run here, but they
could give back some of the gains in the next few weeks,” he
said. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  is up 11 percent this year.  Executives at New York-based JPMorgan expect low rates and
the resulting margin compression to cause a $400 million decline
in consumer and business banking net income this year, Barclays
Capital analyst  Jason Goldberg  wrote in a report yesterday after
meeting with bank management.  U.S. Unemployment  The Fed extended its previous pledge to keep rates low at
least until the middle of 2013 as inflation remains tame and
more than two years of economic growth failed to push
 unemployment  below 8.5 percent. Some Fed officials have said
further easing might be needed to put more Americans back to
work and revive the housing market.  The Fed’s earlier pledge led San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo to purchase more securities for its investment portfolio,
Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said in a Jan. 17 phone
interview. Wells Fargo’s securities available for sale climbed
to $222.6 billion as of Dec. 31 from $186.3 billion at the end
of June.  “If the Fed had not said we are going to keep rates low,
maybe we wouldn’t have invested as much, but they are the driver
here,” Sloan said. “It’s silly not to take some of our
liquidity, particularly because we’ve had good deposit growth,
and invest it.”  The average yield on that portfolio fell to 4.46 percent in
the fourth quarter from 4.92 percent in the third, the bank said
last week in its earnings statement.  ‘ Economic Growth ’  Banks may be able to cushion some of the negative impact of
low rates if the Fed’s policy fuels economic growth and lending
picks up, said Richard Staite, a London-based analyst with
Atlantic Equities LLC. The yield on Wells Fargo’s loan portfolio
was 4.81 percent in the fourth quarter.  “The best thing the Fed can do is promote economic growth,
even if that requires a sustained period of  low interest
rates ,” Staite said in a phone interview. “Loan growth will be
the most important factor to helping banks offset the negative
impact of low rates.”  Ferguson Wellman’s Cole said he’s worried about the
potential for banks to make riskier loans if they grow desperate
for income.  “At some point they won’t be able to make a return on
their money so they will have to lend more,” said Cole, whose
firm owns shares in Citigroup, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo.
“Hopefully that doesn’t mean the loan quality goes down. They
start reaching for yield, and that’s when they get hurt.”  Mortgage Rates   The Fed’s pledge is likely to further trim mortgage rates,
which are linked to long-term government bond yields, said  Greg McBride , the senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of
Bankrate Inc. Credit-card lenders, betting that their funding
costs will remain low, also may boost or extend offers for zero-
interest balance transfers, he said.  The national average rate on deposits, which includes
checking, savings and money-market accounts, and certificates of
deposit up to five years, is 0.59 percent, according to Dan Geller, executive vice president of Market Rates Insight in San
Anselmo,  California . That’s the lowest since he started tracking
the data in January 1990. Interest rates on deposits may reach
zero within the next 12 months to 18 months if lending continues
to be soft, he said.  Custody Banks  Low interest rates also hurt custody banks by reducing the
returns they make on investments and from lending cash and
securities to institutional investors such as mutual funds and
 hedge funds .  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , Boston-based State
Street Corp. and Chicago-based Northern Trust Corp., the three
largest independent custody banks, have made or planned 4,450
job cuts since November 2010.  The Fed’s announcement signals more difficulty for U.S.
money-market mutual funds, which have waived some of their fees
to keep customers’ returns above zero. The average annual fee
charged by the largest 100 money funds fell to 0.17 percent in
December, from 0.37 percent in August 2008, according to Crane
Data LLC in Westborough, Massachusetts. Money fund assets had
declined 31 percent in the past two years to $2.66 trillion as
of Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  