-- U.S. Envoy Rejects Russian Accusation He’s Advocating Revolution
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-25T08:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-s-envoy-rejects-russian-accusation-he-s-advocating-revolution.html
U.S. Ambassador to  Russia  Michael McFaul rejected as “nonsense” accusations by a senior member
of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s party that he’s trying to
encourage revolution.  President  Barack Obama  sent him to Russia to pursue the
policy of a “reset” of U.S.-Russian relations, McFaul said in
an interview with the Kommersant newspaper. He met with
opposition activists earlier this month, within days of taking
up his appointment.  Those contacts with the Russian opposition are part of
official U.S. policy to spread democratic values around the
world, McFaul said, according to a  transcript  of the interview
published today and confirmed by the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.  Russian state television last week accused McFaul of
interfering in domestic politics and Andrei Isayev, a top
lawmaker in Putin’s United Russia party, said yesterday that the
ambassador was acting in an “open and cynical manner.”  “The point of the reset isn’t to prepare a revolution,”
McFaul said, referring to Obama’s policy of seeking to improve
ties with Russia. “That’s not what we are doing.”  McFaul also rejected Isayev’s contention that he’s an
“expert” in Orange Revolutions, referring to popular upheavals
in the former Soviet nations of Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan.  “I’m an academic, a political scientist and a sociologist,
not a professional revolutionary,” said McFaul, a former
professor at  Stanford University  and longstanding Russia
specialist who was the top White House adviser on Russian
affairs before taking up his current post.  Putin, 59, who’s seeking to return to the presidency in
March 4 elections, is facing the broadest unrest of his 12 years
in power amid allegations of fraud in December parliamentary
polls. He has often criticized the U.S. for what he sees as its
efforts to dominate the world and its interference in other
countries’ affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  