-- U.S Economy Preferred by Investors in Global Poll on Markets
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-25T09:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/u-s-economy-preferred-by-investors-in-global-poll-on-markets-1-.html
Investors are turning increasingly
bullish on U.S. markets as they declare its economy in better
health than major rivals from Europe to  Asia , according to the
Bloomberg Global Poll.  As the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting began today in
Switzerland and Federal Reserve policy makers convene in
Washington, 48 percent of respondents predict the U.S. will be
among the world’s best-performing markets this year, according
to the  quarterly poll  of 1,209 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers that was conducted Jan. 23-24.
That’s the highest rating for the U.S. since the poll began in
2009 and it’s more than twice that of Brazil and China, the
second-ranked markets.  The  U.S. economy  is improving in the eyes of half those
surveyed, compared with 18 percent who are positive about world
growth. Investors have yet to embrace tentative gains in
fighting  Europe ’s debt crisis, with 48 percent identifying the
euro area as one of the worst to invest in and 67 percent
predicting that any perceived improvement is temporary and the
crisis will deepen again.  “The difference between the U.S. and Europe is almost
night and day,” said Paul Winghart, a poll respondent and
senior fixed-income strategist at RBC Wealth Management in
Minneapolis, which oversees about $227 billion. “We have been
recommending that investors stay within the U.S.”  Americans Optimistic  Americans were the most optimistic about their own markets,
with 62 percent citing it one of the best investment
opportunities, up from 53 percent in December. Twenty-five
percent of euro-area residents also picked the U.S., compared
with 40 percent who chose the EU. Almost half of U.S.
respondents said their economy was improving; 17 percent of
euro-area residents said the same of their own.  The U.S. economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, while the
euro-region will shrink 0.5 percent, the  International Monetary
Fund  said yesterday in an update of its World Economic Outlook.  That two-speed sentiment is reflected in what investors are
betting on in the next six months. Fifty-nine percent say they
expect the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index to be higher by the
middle of the year and 32 percent say they intend to buy more
dollars. By contrast, 43 percent predict the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
will be lower over the same timeframe and 9 percent plan to
increase their exposure to the euro.  Favoring Stocks  Investors increasingly favor stocks, with 46 percent
saying they will offer the highest return this year -- the most
since the poll began. Thirteen percent identify commodities as
the most attractive asset, with 12 percent choosing gold and 11
percent preferring currencies.  Thirty-nine percent of respondents say bonds will offer the
worst return and 9 percent say they are increasing holdings of
 U.S. Treasuries , with 46 percent predicting the yield on the 10-
year note will rise by mid-year. Just under half say they will
cut their exposure to European sovereign debt.  Pluralities say the prices of gold and oil will both be
higher in the next six months as will the MSCI Asian Pacific
Index and the FTSE 100.  As investors become more confident, their “money will
enter the stock market,” said Todd Cowle, a poll participant
and managing partner at Ultimate Tier Advisors LLC in Plano,
Texas, which manages about $100 million. “We’re setting
ourselves up for a rally” in the U.S. equity market, he said.  U.S. Outlook  Fifty percent of the respondents said the economy in the
U.S. is improving, compared with 10 percent who said so in a
poll in September. This confidence provides Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues with a reason to hold off on another
round of stimulus when they conclude their two-day meeting
today.  It also hands an election-year fillip to President Barack Obama.  “No, we will not go back to an economy weakened by
outsourcing, bad debt, and phony financial profits,” Obama said
in the prepared text of his State of the Union address last
night. “Tonight, I want to speak about how we move forward, and
lay out a blueprint for an economy that’s built to last -- an
economy built on American manufacturing, American energy, skills
for American workers, and a renewal of American values.”  Some 55 percent of those asked, nevertheless, say they are
pessimistic about Obama’s policies.  Job Growth  Payrolls in the U.S. grew by 200,000 workers last month
after a gain of 100,000 in November, the Labor Department’s
report showed on Jan. 6. The jobless rate unexpectedly declined
to 8.5 percent, the lowest level since February 2009, from 8.7
percent the prior month. An improving job market and freer
credit may underpin American consumer sentiment and spending
just as the debt crisis in Europe prompts additional belt-
tightening overseas.  Signs of U.S. renewal and the continued weakness in Europe
may set the tone for the five-day gathering of 2,600 business,
financial and political leaders in the Swiss ski resort of
Davos. Delegates include U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and billionaire
investor  George Soros .  “We are very bullish about the United States,” Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. President Matthew Avril said in
an interview in Davos today. “Everybody recognizes that there
are some challenges and difficulty in Europe that have to be
worked through.”  More Support  The U.S. may provide more support for slumping global
growth as 37 percent conclude the world economy is deteriorating
and the same amount share that view about  China , which helped
power the recovery from the recent credit crisis. Still, 67
percent say the world won’t suffer a recession this year and 79
percent predict the same of the U.S. The IMF sees global growth
of 3.3 percent, with Chinese growth slowing to 8.2 percent.  Investors are less upbeat about the euro region even after
its debt markets started the year showing signs of stabilizing.
For the first time, a majority -- 56 percent -- say one or more
nations will leave the single currency in the next 12 months and
6 percent say its economy is improving. Less than 30 percent say
the worst of the debt crisis is over.  Still, 81 percent say the currency bloc won’t collapse this
year and 64 percent doubt the region’s banks will suffer a
meltdown in 2012. Policy makers may also have succeeded in
reducing the fear of default as the number of respondents
anticipating sovereign bankruptcies in Portugal, Ireland, Italy
and  Spain  all decline. Five percent or less say a default is
likely in the U.S., U.K., France or  Germany , while 93 percent
say one remains in the cards for  Greece  as it struggled to
strike a debt-swap deal with creditors.  Europe Downgrades  Eighty percent of investors say this month’s decision by
 Standard & Poor’s  to downgrade France was justified, with 90
percent backing the ratings cuts of Spain, 89 percent supporting
Italy’s downgrade and 67 percent supporting Austria’s. Seventy-
one percent endorse the U.S.’s August loss of its AAA rating,
and a similar amount say Germany won’t suffer the same fate.  A majority of respondents -- 51 percent -- say they plan to
invest more in stocks during the next six months, up from 43
percent in December. Twenty-five percent say they will increase
their exposure to cash, down from 36 percent.  As the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets today to set
monetary policy for the first time in 2012, 69 percent of those
polled say they have a favorable view of Bernanke. For the first
time, officials will reveal their own predictions for the
benchmark federal funds rate.  Seventy percent are positive about  Mario Draghi , two months
since he became president of the  European Central Bank , and half
endorse Geithner.  Work to Do  The central bankers may still have work to do. Sixty-three
percent of investors say the Fed will pursue even looser
monetary policy by buying bonds. Eighty-eight percent and 68
percent say the ECB and Bank of England will do the same,
respectively.  Among world leaders, around half are optimistic about the
policies of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and Chinese President Hu Jintao. French President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s policies are regarded pessimistically by 69
percent, while 43 percent -- a plurality -- hold a negative view
of Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s policies.  The poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-
based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  