-- Lundin Mining Looks ‘Off Beaten Path’ for Acquisition This Year, CEO Says
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-01-25T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/lundin-mining-seeks-acquisition-for-growth-in-2012-chief-conibear-says.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , the Canadian
copper and zinc producer that was the target of two aborted
takeovers last year, is looking to make an acquisition in 2012
valued at as much as $500 million.  “We’re looking at a few things that are non-public,”
Chief Executive Officer Paul Conibear said today in an interview
in Toronto, where the company is based. “I’d like to do
something significant this year.”  In March, Lundin terminated an agreement to be acquired by
Inmet Mining Corp., while defending itself against a hostile bid
from Equinox Minerals Ltd. Lundin began a process to consider
“strategic alternatives” and said in May that offers received
for all or part of the company were too low. The Equinox bid
ended in April when the Australian company agreed to be acquired
by Barrick Gold Corp.  Conibear was Lundin’s senior vice president of corporate
development in May when he was appointed to become interim CEO
to replace Phil Wright. The CEO appointment was made permanent
in late October.  Lundin  rose  4.2 percent to C$5.17 in Toronto. The shares
have gained 34 percent this month after falling 47 percent in
2011. That compares with a  31 percent  decline last year in the
130-member Bloomberg World Mining Index.  The company will consider copper, zinc and nickel
acquisitions in a range of $100 million to $500 million,
Conibear said. One asset being examined is family owned, he
said.  ‘Off Beaten Path’  “We’re looking off the beaten path,” Conibear said. “Our
stock price is still pretty low, so using our stock to acquire a
publicly traded asset right now, paying the premiums and
everything, would be pretty challenging.”  Acquisitions of non-public assets take longer to negotiate,
Conibear said.  “But if we can land them, we will land them at pretty
attractive prices,” he said.  Lundin mines in  Portugal ,  Sweden ,  Spain  and Ireland. The
company owns a 25 percent stake in the Tenke Fungurume copper
and cobalt mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is
controlled by Phoenix-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  