-- United Technologies Net Rises as Aerospace Offsets Carrier
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-25T21:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/united-technologies-net-rises-as-aerospace-drives-demand-for-pratt-engines.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s fourth-
quarter profit climbed 11 percent as jet production at  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  Airbus (EAD)  SAS drove demand for commercial aerospace parts,
offsetting slower orders for Carrier air conditioners.  Earnings advanced to $1.47 a share, topping by 1 cent the
average of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose less than 1 percent, below the average prediction.  Sales at the company’s three aerospace units together
gained 3.3 percent, helping mitigate a slowdown in other
divisions amid a weakening global economy. Homeowners put off
purchases for air conditioners and demand for Otis elevators
weakened in  China , Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said on a
conference call.  “It’s obviously a slower-growth world,” Hayes said in an
interview. “Clearly there was a slowdown in top-line growth.”  United Technologies  fell 0.2 percent to $77.65 at the close
in New York. The stock has declined 5 percent in 12 months.  Net income rose to $1.33 billion from $1.2 billion, or
$1.31, a year earlier, the Hartford, Connecticut-based company
said in a statement.  Sales advanced to $15 billion, as rising revenue at  Pratt &
Whitney  helped offset declines at the Carrier and the Fire &
Security units. Analysts had estimated sales of $15.1 billion.  The company  reiterated  its profit projection of $5.80 to $6
a share this year on sales of as much as $60 billion. Analysts
have projected profit of $5.72 a share on sales of $62.9
billion.  ‘Somewhat Clouded’  “It’s a generally favorable, but somewhat clouded,
picture,” Richard Whittington, an  analyst  with Drexel Hamilton
LLC in  New York , said in a Jan. 23 interview. He has a “buy”
rating on the shares. “They have their work cut out for them in
the first several quarters here in 2012.”  The company plans to sell assets to help minimize the
amount of shares it needs to sell to pay for the purchase of
 Goodrich Corp. (GR) , Hayes said in the interview today.  United Technologies had said it would raise about $4
billion of equity, Hayes said. United Technologies will identify
the assets to be sold by March 15 and is working with  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service to keep the company’s debt
rating intact, he said.  ‘Working Hard’  “We’re working hard to reduce the amount of equity we’re
going to issue,” he said. “As the CFO of the company I would
tell you, what I really hate would be to lose my  credit rating 
with S&P and Moody’s.”  United Technologies is targeting a bigger share of the
aerospace market with the $16.5 billion acquisition of Goodrich,
the world’s largest maker of aircraft landing gears, that’s
scheduled to close in June.  Sales growth excluding acquisitions slowed to 2 percent in
the fourth quarter as the global economy weakened, down from 6
percent for all last year, Hayes said.  About three-quarters of Goodrich’s sales are in commercial
aerospace, where the industry is booming, and will help offset
United Technologies’ sagging defense-related sales, according to
Whittington, the Drexel Hamilton analyst. United Technologies
makes the Black Hawk helicopter at the Sikorsky unit, which
announced in November plans to cut salaried employees by about 3
percent.  Aerospace Sales Rise  Sales at the company’s three aerospace units together rose
to $7.39 billion. Otis posted sales growth of 3.3 percent to
$3.21 billion. Revenue dropped 1.6 percent at the Fire &
Security unit and declined 8.8 percent at Carrier.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  announced in
December a management change and restructuring at the Fire &
Security business to combine it with Carrier in an effort to
improve the unit’s performance.  Quarterly operating profit rose 7.7 percent from a year ago
at Otis to $711 million and and 57 percent to $330 million at
Carrier. The Fire & Security unit’s profit dropped 45 percent to
$130 million. The aerospace businesses combined had profit of
$1.04 billion, a 7.9 percent increase.  The company said restructuring charges lowered earnings per
share by 11 cents, while net one-time items added 12 cents.  Operating margin was 15.4 percent, or 0.2 percentage points
higher than a year ago, after adjusting for the restructuring
costs and one-time items. Without those adjustments, margins
were 14.7 percent for the quarter. The company spent $552
million on research and development, an increase of $95 million
from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  