-- Uralkali Ready to Cut Potash Output to Shield Price: Commodities
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-01-25T13:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/uralkali-ready-to-cut-potash-output-to-protect-45-price-gain-commodities.html
OAO  Uralkali (URKA) ,  Russia ’s biggest
fertilizer maker, is ready to cut production to prevent potash
prices from falling after Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
announced reductions this year.  “Our strategy is that price is much more important than
volumes,” Chief Financial Officer Victor Belyakov said in an
interview yesterday in London. “It’s a strategy for most of the
big players in the market. We usually cut some production to
come up with a fair price.”  Russian producers and those in  Canada , like Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp., account for about 65 percent of
global output, said  Mark Connelly , a New York-based analyst at
Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. Suppliers are seeking to
protect a 45 percent recovery in  benchmark  U.S. Midwest potash
prices since July 2010.  “If the Canadian and Russian producers are aggressive in
matching supply and demand, it shouldn’t matter very much what
other producers do,” Connelly said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Potash, mined from deposits of salts laid down in ancient
seas and captured in rock layers, helps plants to grow strong
roots, resist disease and withstand drought conditions. Canada
accounts for about 52 percent of estimated global reserves and
Russia 21 percent, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Canpotex Ltd., owned by  Potash Corp. (POT) , Mosaic Co. and Agrium
Inc. handles exports for  North America ’s largest suppliers.
Potash Corp. is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings
before the start of trading in  New York  tomorrow.  Production Cuts  Uralkali pared its 2012 production target by about 8
percent to between 10.5 million metric tons and 10.8 million
tons to bolster prices, Belyakov said. Berezniki, Russia-based
Uralkali, which had record 2011 output of 10.8 million tons,
forecasts global demand for fertilizers to be similar to last
year’s 58 million tons, he said.  Potash Corp., which announced temporary cuts at two mines
in Canada last month, has since unveiled a four-week halt at its
Allan mine and an extension of the shutdown at its Rocanville
operation. Combined, Potash Corp.’s cuts total about 1 million
tons,  Credit Agricole ’s Connelly said.  “Uralkali is following Potash Corp.’s strategy, and
historically, Russian producers didn’t always do that,” he
said. “If Russia and Canada have the same strategy, this is a
much better business than it used to be.”  Canadian producers in 2009 succeeded in keeping prices
higher than other crop nutrients by curbing output after the
global financial crisis, Connelly said.  ‘Wait and See’  Suppliers are seeking to prevent a drop in prices this
year, concerned that demand has been “slow,” said the analyst,
who forecasts 2012 prices to rise by $25 to $575 a ton in the
U.S., compared with $380 in July 2010, and to settle at $520 in
China and  India .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its price forecast for potash
by 6 percent to $419 a ton, excluding the cost of freight,
insurance and taxes. “With India refraining from active buying
in the fourth quarter of 2011 and Brazil buyers not rushing into
$580 a ton, we see a downside risk to our 2012-13 potash price
forecasts,” Yuriy Vlasov, an analyst at the bank, said in a
report dated today. The Brazil price includes some
transportation costs.  Mosaic (MOS) , North America’s second-largest potash producer,
said on Jan. 5 that fertilizer buyers are taking a “wait-and-
see” attitude toward replenishing inventories by postponing
purchases because of concern about the global outlook for
economic growth.  ‘Deferring Risk’  “In 2012, we see firm potash prices in the first half of
the year, tempering slightly in the back half on lower
agriculture commodity prices,” Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts
including Colin Hamilton wrote in a report dated Jan. 18.  “Demand is there globally,” the analysts wrote.
“However, buyers are deferring risk by waiting to purchase
volume. North American buyers will come to market soon as potash
needs to be flowing to farm level before planting season begins
in April/May.” International buyers will show interest in the
second quarter, the report shows.  Potash imports by  China , the largest user of the crop
nutrient, may decline this year for the first time in three
years amid falling demand and high inventory, Gavin Ju, a
consultant at researcher CRU International Ltd, said on Jan. 13.  Uralkali last year sold potash for $490 a ton to Indian
customers in annual contracts, Belyakov said. Prices for Chinese
customers, which sign semi-annual contracts, rose to $470 a ton
in the second half from $400 in the first half, he said.  Largest Importer  India, the largest offshore importer of potash, will delay
signing new contracts to buy the nutrient until July and will
instead rely on inventories, P.S. Gahlaut, managing director of
Indian Potash Ltd., said Jan. 6. India’s current deal with
potash suppliers expires at the end of March.  Uralkali is negotiating with Indian customers and plans to
start talks with Chinese buyers within a couple of months
Belyakov said. Chinese settlements could be reached in March and
Indian agreements in the middle of the year, Connelly estimated.  The International Fertilizer Industry Association forecast
global demand to increase by 3 percent this year, according to a
Jan. 5 report. Demand for fertilizers exceeds supply, mainly
because of delays in commissioning new capacity, the association
said.  “A fair price should justify development of greenfield
projects, because brownfield projects are limited,” Belyakov
said. “But to construct a 2 million-ton production facility
will cost you $3 billion to $4 billion and take at least 7
years, which brings the cost to $500 per ton at the mine. Right
now, prices aren’t as high as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  