-- Lira Drops for 2nd Day as ECB May Not Take Losses on Greek Debt
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-25T16:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/turkish-bond-yields-extend-decline-on-stable-lira-lower-rate.html
The Turkish lira weakened for a
second day as risk appetite decreased after reports the  European
Central Bank  may not take losses on its Greek debt holdings.  The lira declined 0.4 percent to 1.8272 per dollar at 6:29
p.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s losses to 3.5 percent and
heading for the biggest depreciation in almost two weeks. Yields
on two-year lira-denominated bonds increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.37 percent.  A senior member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
rejected suggestions that the ECB take losses on its Greek debt
holdings, backing the bank in a dispute with the  International
Monetary Fund .  “Today risk is not trading well compared to the start of
this week,” Sukru Haskan, a currency trader at Barclays Bank
Plc in  London , said in e-mailed comments. “News reports coming
out today are all risk negative.”  Turkey ’s central bank has terminated daily sales of $50
million, effective today, after having spent at least $15
billion from its reserves to stem the lira’s decline, which
contributed to a jump in consumer price inflation to its highest
in three years at 10.5 percent in December.  Turkish yields soared 390 basis points last year, the most
since 2006, as the lira weakened 18 percent against the dollar
in the biggest depreciation worldwide and a widening  current-
account deficit  hurt investor confidence in the nation’s
financial stability.  The central bank provided 6 billion liras ($3.2 billion) in
its one-week repo funding today. It kept its one-week repo rate
at a record low of 5.75 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  