-- Turkish Banks’ Asset Quality Worsening, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-25T10:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/turkish-banks-asset-quality-worsening-morgan-stanley-says-1-.html
The asset quality of Turkish banks
is declining and higher funding costs will increase risks this
year, Morgan Stanley said.  The book values of  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS and
 Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS  are expected to fall because asset
values will need to be marked down in the fourth quarter, Morgan
Stanley analysts including Magdalena Stoklosa and Samuel
Goodacre said in an e-mailed report today.  “We will see continued, gradual deterioration of asset
quality in the fourth quarter” while credit extension in Turkey
has entered a “lower growth environment,” the analysts said.
Lower asset quality will “push net cost of risk higher in
2012,” according to the report.  Markdowns in the valuations of assets will lead to a two to
four percent decline in book value at Akbank, Isbank and  Yapi
Kredi (YKBNK) , while  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ’s book value is expected
to remain stable, the analysts said.  Garanti has the “most comfortable” capital position among
Turkish banks and retains an “overweight” rating, the report
said.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS , the bank owned by  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) 
and  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , also retains its “overweight” on a
possible re-rating after UniCredit’s rights issue, the report
said.  Yapi Kredi’s earnings per share may rise 1.2 percent and
Isbank’s 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter. Garanti’s may rise
56 percent and Akbank’s fall by 5.8 percent, the report said.  The Turkish  banking index  rose 0.9 percent at 10:34 a.m. in
Istanbul trading. The measure has gained 8.7 percent this year
following a 32 percent decline last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  