-- US Airways Confirms Exploration of Options Related to American Parent AMR
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-25T21:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/us-airways-confirms-exploration-of-options-related-to-amr.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the smallest
full-service domestic carrier, confirmed it’s evaluating a
possible merger with American Airlines parent  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) . in
bankruptcy.  Millstein & Co., Barclays Plc and the law firm of  Latham &
Watkins LLP  have been hired to help Tempe, Arizona-based  US
Airways  evaluate AMR options, Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker told analysts and investors today on a conference call.  His comments marked the first acknowledgment of any AMR-
related interest, after US Airways declined to respond last week
when two people familiar with the matter said a potential merger
was under study. With the industry shrinking in tie-ups in the
past four years, further contraction is possible while “no
longer imperative,” Parker said today.  “We can now decide whether it’s best to operate as a
standalone or to participate in further consolidation over time,
and that’s what we intend to do,” Parker said. US Airways is
“always interested in studying potential value-enhancing
opportunities.”  US Airways shares  rose 17 percent, the most since July
2009, to $7.52 at the close in  New York . Most of the increase
came before Parker spoke and after the carrier reported a
fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  ‘Laser Focused’  AMR, the third-largest U.S. airline, filed for Chapter 11
protection on Nov. 29 after annual losses that began in 2008.
That step reignited industry speculation that the carrier would
be a takeover target, with US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S.
carrier, most often cited by analysts as a partner.  AMR declined to discuss Parker’s comments. The company is
“laser focused” on working through bankruptcy to achieve
increased revenue and a competitive cost and debt structure,
said a spokesman,  Sean Collins , in a statement.  “We are in the early stages of this process, but we are
confident that we have the ability to create significant value
and strengthen our foundation for long-term success,” he said.  TPG Capital and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  also are evaluating
possible bids for American, people familiar with the matter have
said. TPG and Delta have said they aren’t commenting about any
interest in AMR, and Delta CEO  Richard Anderson  deflected a
question about industry mergers on a conference call today.  ‘Both Looking’  “The only difference in what happened with US Airways
today and Delta is that US Airways was willing to own up to
it,” said James M. Higgins, a Ticonderoga Securities LLC
analyst. “I think the same stuff is going on in the background
and they are both looking.”  US Airways is preparing a merger plan that would boost
revenue and fix a weak domestic route system at American, the
people familiar with the matter said last week. President Scott Kirby is leading the analysis, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  “We expect AMR will remain in bankruptcy for quite some
time and, therefore, we and our advisers will be studying the
situation for quite some time,” Parker said.  A US Airways-American combination would hold about a 20
percent domestic market share, according to Jeff Straebler, an
independent airline analyst based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . That
would put the blended carrier on roughly equal footing with
United Continental Holdings Inc., Delta and  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV) , Straebler said last week.  “It’s going to be a long, drawn-out process,” Jim Corridore , a  Standard & Poor’s  equity analyst, said in an
interview. “Both Delta and US Airways are going to let AMR do
the heavy lifting in bankruptcy before they do anything.”  United is now the biggest U.S. carrier after its former
parent, UAL Corp., merged with Continental Airlines Inc. in
2010. No. 2 Delta bought Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008, and
No. 4 Southwest acquired AirTran Holdings Inc. last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  