-- USDA ‘Plant Hardiness’ Map Shifts Temperature Zones North
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-25T17:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/usda-plant-hardiness-map-shifts-temperature-zones-north-1-.html
Many parts of the U.S. may be
getting warmer, according to a  new, interactive  Department of
Agriculture map that shows the best places in the country to
grow different plants.  The “ Plant Hardiness Zone Map ,” an update of a 1990
static version, shifts temperatures up one 5-degree increment
across much of the country, reflecting newer and more complete
data, the USDA said today.  The map is based on weather-station data from 1976 to
2005, compared with the previous version that used statistics
from 1974 to 1986, the USDA said. The guide may help about 80
million U.S. gardeners, businesses including the  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
that stock seeds and implements, as well as crop insurers
including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Ace Ltd. (ACE) , which have some
government-set standards determined by the map.  “The increases in accuracy and detail that this map
represents will be extremely useful for gardeners and
researchers,” said Catherine Wotecki, the USDA’s undersecretary
for research, education and economics.  Global Warming  Scientific data shows that the world is getting warmer,
with potentially adverse consequences for farmers worldwide. Kim
Kaplan, a USDA spokeswoman, said the map’s trend toward warmer
temperatures compared with 1990, especially evident in the
Northeast, may be attributed to better data. More research would
be needed to prove the U.S. is warming, she said.  Drought in the Great Plains, flooding along the  Mississippi
River  and deep freezes in the South pushed payments by companies
including Wells Fargo and Ace to a record $9.1 billion in 2011,
according to National Crop Insurance Services. When all claims
are settled, the total may top $10 billion, the  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based company said yesterday in a  statement .  The trend toward warmer temperatures is “part and parcel
of  climate change ,” David Wolfe, a plant and soil scientist at
 Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, said by telephone.
Winter lows that creep upward, shown on the new map, mean more
pests will survive to destroy grains, oilseeds and other crops
during growing seasons, he said.  At the same time, warmer weather may create opportunities
for other crops. In upstate  New York  where Wolfe teaches, the
local wine industry may be able to diversify its grapes, he
said.  Plant hardiness-zone designations represent the average
annual extreme minimum temperatures at a given location during a
particular time period, the USDA said. Low temperature during
the winter is a crucial factor in the survival of plants at
specific locations.  The new map is searchable online by zip code and will not
be available for sale, the USDA said. It was developed jointly
by the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service and Oregon State
University’s PRISM Climate Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  