-- Used Aircraft Struggle to Find Buyers as Banks Avoid Taking Risk
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-25T15:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/used-aircraft-struggle-to-find-buyers-as-banks-avoid-taking-risk.html
Banks are becoming increasingly
reticent to finance used aircraft because their value has become
harder to gauge as an unprecedented number of new jets floods
the market, a managing director of  DVB Bank SE (DVB)  said.  “There are too few institutions willing to finance
aircraft aged more than eight to ten years old,” Bertrand Grabowski said in an interview from Dublin. “Most institutions
have limited resources, and as a bank, you prefer to back easy-
to-understand new aircraft market rather than the difficult, and
somewhat dangerous second-hand market.”  Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are producing aircraft at record
numbers, and their planned A320neo and 737 MAX jetliners are
winning customers seeking to cut fuel consumption. Financing new
planes will become tougher in 2012 as European banks feel the
squeeze from the sovereign debt crisis, a trend the U.S. Export
Import bank will help mitigate with higher guarantees to keep
production at  Airbus (EAD)  and Boeing humming along, Grabowski said.  “On both sides of the Atlantic, the credit agencies are
doing their duty,” said Grabowski, whose Frankfurt-based bank
is the single-biggest financier of used aircraft. “I can
imagine for 2012 that the Ex-Im bank and credit agencies in
 Europe  would probably back 35 percent or even above that, which
is historically high.”  Airbus has won hundreds of orders for its A320neo, making
the aircraft the fastest-selling jet in aviation history. Airbus
and Boeing won orders today from Norwegian Air Shuttle valued at
127 billion kroner ($21.5 billion) as Europe’s fourth-biggest
discount carrier steps up its competition with state-backed SAS
AB  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  