-- Luxottica Gains After Eyewear Sales Jump
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-25T08:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/luxottica-gains-after-eyewear-sales-beat-estimates-milan-mover.html
  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) , owner of the
Oakley and Ray-Ban sunglasses brands, rose the most since May
2010 as analysts raised target prices after fourth-quarter sales
beat estimates.  The  shares  climbed as much as 6.2 percent to 25.45 euros
and traded up 5.1 percent as of 9:35 a.m. in Milan.  Luxottica, the world’s largest eyewear maker, reported a 12
percent increase in sales. In  North America , its biggest market,
consumer confidence rose to an eight-month high in December.
Bank of America, Intermonte, Cheuvreux, Deutsche Bank and
Citigroup analysts raised target prices on Luxottica.  “Luxottica is one of our top picks in Italy and  Europe , as
it should benefit from a number of catalysts,” Cheuvreux
analyst Thomas Mesmin said in a note today, citing worldwide
expansion of the Sunglass Hut franchise, its presence in  Latin
America  in wholesale and retail and expansion of the Ray-Ban
brand in emerging markets.  The Milan-based company said revenue in the three months
ended Dec. 31 rose to 1.51 billion euros ($1.96 billion) after
the close of trading yesterday. That exceeded the average
estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey of 1.47 billion
euros.  The outlook for the retail division this year is
“positive,” Luxottica said, citing improved conditions in the
U.S. and opportunities in emerging markets for its Sunglass Hut
chain. The start of the year “looks promising,” reflecting
orders for its products and Coach Inc. eyewear.  The shares have gained 15 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 11.6 billion euros. Its nearest
competitor, Padua-based  Safilo Group SpA (SFL) , owner of the Carrera
eyewear brand, has gained 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  