-- Vale Set to Bypass China Ore-Ship Ban With Transfer Vessel
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-01-26T04:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/vale-poised-to-bypass-china-ore-ship-ban-with-transfer-vessel.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, is set to take delivery of a ship that will help
the company bypass the exclusion from Chinese ports of its
biggest vessels hauling the commodity.  The Ore Fabrica, a raw-materials carrier that’s been
converted to a so-called transshipment vessel, departed the 
shipyard this morning for delivery to Vale, Jiangsu Xinrong 
Shipyard Co., which did the conversion, said in an e-mail today.
The giant ship has at least five cranes painted yellow on the 
deck, according to pictures sent by the shipbuilder.  It will be the largest global floating transfer station,
Robert Willmington, a spokesman for Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay, a provider of shipping data, said by e-mail.  China  is excluding Vale’s five largest ships, the world’s
biggest carriers of dry-bulk commodities, because they lack
port-entry permits, Jose Carlos Martins, head of iron ore and
strategy, said in December. The Rio de Janeiro-based company
planned to transfer ore to smaller ships from the so-called
valemax vessels for delivery elsewhere, he said.  Vale is spending more than $8 billion to operate a fleet of
35 valemaxes in an effort to gain more control of freight costs
to its fastest-growing market in  Asia . Chinese shipowners
opposed the vessels’ introduction on concern it would worsen a
capacity glut and plunging rates. China is the biggest global
user of iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient.  Subic Bay  The transshipment operations would be based at Subic Bay in
the  Philippines , Martins said. The Ore Fabrica is destined for
the port along with the ore carriers Vale Brasil and Vale China,
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. The vessels are
scheduled to arrive on Feb. 2, Feb. 12 and Feb. 22,
respectively, according to the data.  Vale will pay the shipyard nearly 100 million yuan for the
conversion, a project manager surnamed Ji at Jiangsu Xinrong
said today. He declined to provide his full name, citing company
policy.  The Ore Fabrica’s conversion started in August, according
to  a note  on the website of Jiangsu Xinrong. That was six weeks
after Vale Brasil, Vale’s first valemax, diverted to  Italy  on
its maiden voyage from the original destination of Dalian in
China.  The conversion was the second for the Ore Fabrica, which
was previously altered by Vale to an ore carrier from a tanker,
IHS Fairplay data show.  The three Chinese ports that Vale has said can accommodate
the valemaxes have so far failed to handle any of the ships. The
vessels, each able to carry 400,000 metric tons of  iron ore , are
about twice the size of the capesize ships generally used to
haul cargoes to Asia from  Brazil , the second-largest global
exporter of the commodity after  Australia .  The ships’ exclusion from Chinese ports is a “technical
issue” and has no connection to political influence, Vale’s
Martins said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  