-- GM’s Chevy Volt Used as ‘Political Punching Bag,’ Akerson Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-25T16:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/volt-delay-shows-obama-s-unnatural-gm-ties-republicans-say.html
The  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet
Volt, the first mass-market electric vehicle sold by a U.S.
automaker, has become a “political punching bag,” GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said.  Akerson, testifying before a U.S. House panel today, said
the Volt, which the company is fixing after fires following
crash tests, is engineered for safety.  “Unfortunately, there is one thing we did not engineer,”
Akerson told a House subcommittee led by Representative  Jim Jordan , an Ohio Republican. “Although we loaded the Volt with
state-of-the-art safety features, we did not engineer the Volt
to be a political punching bag. And that, sadly, is what the
Volt has become.”  Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, in a report released today before the hearing, said
an “unnatural relationship” between President Barack Obama’s
administration and automakers that received U.S. bailouts may
explain the delay last year in disclosing a potential safety
defect in Volts. The government  owns  32 percent of GM’s shares.  Obama has set a goal of having 1 million electric vehicles
on U.S. roads by 2015. The Volt, a plug-in hybrid, and the
Nissan Leaf, a fully electric model, were the only two mass-
produced electric vehicles in the U.S. market last year.  “This unnatural relationship has blurred the lines between
the public and private sector as President Obama touts the
survival of General Motors as one of the top accomplishments of
his administration,” according to the report by the committee
led by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.
“On a policy level, this relationship raises serious questions
about whether or not the administration is too heavily invested
in the success of GM to be an effective regulator.”  No Safety Risk  U.S. auto-safety regulators and GM didn’t put driver safety
at risk by not immediately disclosing a fire that erupted in a
Volt three weeks after a May crash test, Akerson and National
Highway Traffic Safety Administrator  David Strickland  said at
the hearing in Washington.  GM and NHTSA didn’t disclose the fire until Bloomberg News
reported it in November. The agency opened a formal
investigation later that month and closed it last week, saying
electric cars posed no more of a fire risk than gasoline-powered
models, after GM announced a fix for current and future Volts,
avoiding a formal recall.  GM, based in  Detroit , and NHTSA found that battery coolant
can leak and catch fire in a simulated rollover crash that
punctures the battery compartment.  Delay Defended  Strickland and Akerson defended the five-month delay in
disclosing a possible defect, saying it took time to determine
the cause and what risk it might pose to Volt drivers.  “Not only would I drive it, I would drive my mother, my
wife and my baby sister with me along in the ride,” Strickland
said today when asked by Representative Dennis Kucinich, an
Ohio Democrat, whether the Volt is safe.  Strickland in his testimony said his agency took the
“uncommon step” of opening the Volt investigation without any
fires reported outside crash tests to “ensure the safety of the
driving public with the emerging electric vehicle technology.”  Had there been “an imminent safety risk,” the agency
“would have ensured the public knew about that risk
immediately,” he told the panel.  The fire three weeks after the crash test didn’t endanger
drivers, Akerson said.  “As one of our customers put it: if they couldn’t cut him
out of the vehicle in two or three weeks, he had bigger problems
to worry about,” he said.  Akerson’s New Addition  Akerson told the panel he just purchased one of the Volts
that GM bought back after offering owners that option when news
emerged about the fires. Akerson didn’t get the $7,500 U.S. tax
credit offered to buyers of electric vehicles because the car
was used.  Issa, who has criticized the Obama administration’s
electric-vehicle goals and the U.S. bailouts of GM and Chrysler
Group LLC, told reporters during a break in the hearing that he
will continue his investigation into the timing of when the Volt
probe was made public.  GM defended the Volt today in a full-page ad in media
including the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal with an
open letter from Akerson calling the car a “technological moon
shot” and safe.  “Yes, the world is learning from Detroit again,” he
wrote. “And we couldn’t be prouder.”  Disproportionate Scrutiny  The hearing follows Obama’s annual State of the Union
speech last night, which came as candidates prepare for the  U.S.
presidential election  in November.  Obama, in the speech, took credit for taking the U.S. auto
industry from the “verge of collapse.”  “Today, General Motors is back on top as the world’s No. 1
automaker,” Obama said to applause.  GM yesterday said the administration isn’t involved in its
business, and Strickland today said GM didn’t ask it to delay
publicizing the Volt fire and its subsequent testing to
determine what caused it.  The Volt has become “a surrogate for some to offer broader
commentary” on GM and on Obama’s administration, Akerson said.  GM began selling the Volt, which Akerson called “a
technical showcase for GM,” after a 2009 U.S. government
bailout. It was introduced as a concept car at the 2007 North
American International Auto Show in Detroit.  Kucinich said he met with Akerson yesterday. He said at the
hearing that he hopes the attention to the Volt doesn’t derail
the promise of electric cars.  “It would be very bad for our economy to do anything that
would demolish the potential for electric vehicles,” said
Kucinich, the top Democrat on the subcommittee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  