-- Wal-Mart Pulls Night-Shift Greeters as Walton Legacy Ebbs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-25T19:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/wal-mart-pulls-greeters-from-overnight-shift-as-sam-walton-s-legacy-ebbs.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, has removed greeters from the overnight shift
at its U.S. supercenters, chipping away at a 30-year tradition
of making sure all shoppers are welcomed to the store.  The move will save money and ensure Wal-Mart has the right
staffing levels during peak and non-peak hours,  David Tovar , a
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. For the past six
months, Wal-Mart has been reassigning greeters at the company’s
approximately 3,000 U.S. supercenters from the third shift,
which runs from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m., to other jobs, he said.  Founder  Sam Walton  added greeters in 1980 to make his giant
low-price stores friendly and welcoming. Cutting back, even
during the early morning hours, shows Wal-Mart is rethinking
longheld traditions to boost profit margins and guarantee low
prices, said  David Strasser , an analyst with Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “It’s risky,” Strasser, who recommends buying Wal-Mart
shares, said in a phone interview. “Consumers have been going
to Wal-Mart for years, and greeters have become an expectation.
To a degree it defines Wal-Mart.”  Bruce Plummer, a greeter on the first shift at a Wal-Mart
in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , said the company stopped scheduling third-
shift greeters at his store in recent weeks.  “It’s important that they have it,” Plummer said in an
interview. “Our job is to ask people if they have receipts. We
also make them feel welcome and safe.”  Dollar-Store Competition  Wal-Mart has been minding its costs as U.S. sales growth
slows and dollar stores increase price competition, Strasser
said. Same-store sales at Wal-Mart’s namesake U.S. locations
declined for nine straight quarters before snapping the streak
with a 1.3 percent gain for the quarter ended in October.  Protecting  revenue  and profit margins at Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores is important because they
accounted for 60 percent of total sales and 73 percent of
operating income for the nine months ended October.  Many of the former third-shift greeters are now stocking
shelves to make sure there is plenty of inventory for the busier
morning shopping hours, Tovar said.  Wal-Mart management decided to make the change six months
ago, around the same time that the company hired consultant
Acosta Inc. to help make sure its stores had adequate inventory.  Wal-Mart DNA  While greeters are an important part of Wal-Mart’s brand,
so is restraining costs and prices, he said.  “We realized that it wasn’t necessary to have people
greeting customers because it wasn’t peak shopping hours,”
Tovar said. “It was meant to operate stores as efficiently as
possible, which is also part of our DNA.”  Wal-Mart’s competitive advantage is low pricing, so
constantly squeezing costs makes sense, said  Matt Arnold , an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres, Missouri. While
the company risks going too far by cutting staff, eliminating
third-shift greeters may have minimal impact, said Arnold, who
recommends buying the shares.  “That time of night, shopping at Wal-Mart is serve-
yourself,” Arnold said in a telephone interview. “It’s
probably a minimal impact on  customer service .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  