-- Walter Energy Buyer Seen as BHP-ArcelorMittal Converge: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-01-26T00:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/walter-energy-buyers-seen-as-bhp-arcelormittal-converge-on-cheap-real-m-a.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  may finally lure
buyers willing to bet on a recovery in coal prices with the
industry’s cheapest stock.  After  losing  almost half its value in the past year, the
producer of steelmaking coal sold for 9.3 times earnings this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was less
than any North American coal-mining company with $1 billion in
market capitalization. The slide also drove down the value of
Walter Energy to 1.7 times its  net assets  this month, the lowest
since the last  bear market  in U.S. equities, the data show.  While a surge in coal prices last year led to the biggest
wave of coal deals, most acquirers were left with losses as
demand for the commodity collapsed. Walter Energy, which bought
Western Coal Corp. for $5.3 billion in April, is an attractive
target because it produces high-grade steelmaking coal, Brean
Murray Carret & Co. said. A buyer could spend double Walter
Energy’s closing price of $67.54 a share yesterday and still get
the company for less relative to earnings than any coal takeover
in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Now is the opportune time for a buyer to potentially
start looking at them,” J. Christopher Haberlin, a Richmond,
Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “It’s some of the best coal in the world and it’s
what steelmakers want. If somebody did make a run at Walter
here, certainly they could take Walter out a price much lower
than where that valuation may have been.”  Walter Energy may attract interest from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  or ArcelorMittal, and could command as much
as $120 a share in an acquisition, he said.  Today’s Trading  Paul Blalock, a spokesman for Birmingham, Alabama-based
Walter Energy, declined to comment.  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman at BHP, declined to comment on
whether the Melbourne-based company is considering a bid for
Walter Energy, as did James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for Anglo
American of  London . Giles Read of Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call or an e-mail
seeking comment outside normal business hours.  Walter Energy advanced as much as 5.4 percent today before
closing 3.9 percent higher at $70.14 in New York. The shares
fell 45 percent in the past year through yesterday, the biggest
drop in the 34-stock  Bloomberg World Coal Index (BWCOAL)  apart from two
companies --  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) ,
the data show.  Earnings Miss  Most of the decline came after Walter Energy completed its
biggest ever acquisition with its purchase of Western Coal, as
 Keith Calder  quit as chief executive officer in June after three
months on the job and the company’s earnings fell short of
analysts’ projections.  Walter Energy  plummeted  30 percent on Aug. 4, its biggest
drop since at least March 1995, after second-quarter revenue and
net income trailed  estimates .  The company’s fourth-quarter profit forecast in November
also missed analysts’ projections after it suffered a more than
40 percent decline in third-quarter earnings. This month, Walter
Energy cut its coal production forecast for 2012.  The share-price slump, which erased $2.3 billion in Walter
Energy’s market capitalization in the past year and left it with
a value of $4.2 billion yesterday, pushed down its valuation and
increased speculation it could be vulnerable to a takeover.  Relative Value  At 9.3 times earnings, Walter Energy was valued at a 33
percent discount to the industry average for North American coal
mining companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Walter Energy
also traded at 1.7 times its assets minus liabilities earlier
this month, about half its  valuation  in August.  While Walter Energy’s stock has fallen, its coal is
considered better quality because it’s purer and has a so-called
higher heat rate, making it desirable for steelmakers that use
it to forge the alloy, according to T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  Walter Energy, which has operations in  Alabama ’s  Blue Creek
seam  and added mines in  Canada  when it bought Vancouver-based
Western Coal, sold its coal for a price of $223 per ton in the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s more than any U.S. coal producer and three times the
average price for the industry, the data show.  With prices for steelmaking coal close to “bottoming,”
according to an estimate from Raymond James Financial Inc.,
Walter Energy makes sense as an acquisition target, said Lucas Pipes, a New York-based analyst at Brean Murray.  ‘No Question’  “There’s no question that folks always have M&A in the
back of their minds with Walter,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They do have high quality met coal reserves and at
least over the last couple of years have enjoyed pretty healthy
prices. Walter’s reserves definitely hit the parameters in terms
of what potential buyers are looking for.”  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, and Anglo
American, which mines for coal, iron ore and diamonds, could
gain Walter Energy’s mines in Alabama and western Canada, which
are near ports and can help any buyer cut the cost to ship coal
to  South America ,  Europe  and  Asia , Davenport’s Haberlin said.  Buying Walter Energy would also help  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the
world’s largest steelmaker, reduce the amount of coal it needs
to purchase from suppliers, according to  Malcolm Polley , who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  “It would help ArcelorMittal in terms of becoming a more
vertically integrated producer of steel,” he said. “You want
to do it in the case of ArcelorMittal because you want to lock
in a reasonable cost for your met coal.”  ‘Would Emerge’  While Davenport’s Haberlin estimates that Walter Energy
could command a takeover premium of more than 75 percent,
doubling yesterday’s price to $135 a share would value the
company at 14 times its  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That would still be cheaper than any billion-dollar coal
acquisition last year, when a record $28 billion in company
takeovers were announced in the industry, the data show.  Walter Energy is an “attractive acquisition,” said
Davenport’s Haberlin. “They do have very good quality coal. It
would be a major global miner or a global steel company that
would emerge as the bidder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 