-- WellPoint Shares Fall as U.S. Health Insurer’s Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-25T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/wellpoint-forecasts-2012-earnings-that-are-less-than-analyst-estimates.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest U.S.
health insurer by enrollment, declined the most since August
after its earnings forecast was less than analyst estimates.  WellPoint fell 4.8 percent to $66.10 at 4 p.m. New York
time. Profit excluding items for 2012 probably will be at least
$7.60 a share, the Indianapolis-based insurer said in a
statement today. The forecast was 16 cents less than the average
of 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The insurer is leaving markets for senior citizen plans in
California that caused losses and is now well positioned in that
state, Chief Executive Officer Angela Braly said on a conference
call. With about 60 percent of revenue coming from its employer-
provided insurance business, though, the company also is more
exposed to health-care spending trends than its rivals, said
 Sarah James , a Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst in  Los Angeles .  “Management credibility is a concern at this point,”
Chris Rigg, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group in New
York, said in a telephone interview. He said the company also
reported higher costs for California than expected in 2011’s
second quarter. “It may take a while to regain investor trust.
They misjudged market trends whereas others have not.”  Earnings Miss  Fourth-quarter earnings excluding investment gains and
losses were 99 cents a share, missing the average analyst
estimate of $1.11.  “There’s an issue of controlling costs,”  David Windley ,
an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , in a
telephone interview. “There’s some questioning of their ability
to implement care management programs on top of that.”  WellPoint said it expects to lose 600,000 members in 2012.
Fourth-quarter net income fell 39 percent to $335.3 million, or
96 cents a share, from $548.8 million, or $1.40, a year earlier,
WellPoint said.  “This was definitely worse than what we expected to see,”
said  Jason Gurda , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston ,
by telephone. Medicare Advantage plans contributed to the higher
costs, he said. Medicare Advantage is a U.S.-supported program
in which managed-care health plans are sold by commercial
insurers.  UnitedHealth Group Inc., the largest U.S. insurer by sales,
last week said its first-quarter results won’t be as good as the
fourth quarter’s as people use the medical system more. United
also expects to invest money to comply with the health-care
overhaul as reimbursements for medical care come under pressure,
Stephen Hemsley, that company’s chief executive, said on a Jan.
19 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  