-- Wells Fargo Creates $100 Million Solar Fund for Enfinity America
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-25T19:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/wells-fargo-creates-100-million-fund-for-enfinity-america.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the most valuable
U.S. lender, created a $100 million fund to finance solar-energy
projects developed by Enfinity NV’s North American unit.  The fund for Enfinity America Corp. will support the
Atlanta-based company’s pipeline of distributed generation
photovoltaic projects for commercial, industrial, and municipal
clients, Wells Fargo said today in a statement.  The investment enables the bank to take advantage of a 30
percent investment tax credit for solar energy.  “This is exactly like other funds we’ve created for other
solar integrators that focus on commercial scale projects,”
Barry Neal, head of Wells Fargo’s environmental finance group,
said today in a telephone interview.  Other developers the bank has created funds for include
 MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) ’s SunEdison LLC,  SunPower Corp (SPWR) .,
and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,  China ’s largest polysilicon
maker.  Many of the projects will be “behind the meter,” helping
to reduce the power factories or businesses need to buy from
utilities, Neal said. “That’s where a lot of the growth for
solar has been.”  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, has invested $2.7
billion in equity financing in more than 300 renewable energy
projects in 27 states since 2006, according to the statement.  The company will use the financing for projects ranging
from 3 megawatts to 15 megawatts in capacity, Vin Staniforth,
Enfinity America’s head of marketing, said by telephone.  Installations will primarily be in California, Arizona,
Nevada,  New Mexico , Hawaii, New Jersey, Massachusetts, North
Carolina and Ohio, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Andrew Herndon} in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  