-- Why Singapore Has the Cleanest Government Money Can Buy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/why-singapore-has-the-cleanest-government-money-can-buy-view.html
Singapore ’s prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong, isn’t often taken publicly to task. But when you
make S$3.1 million ($2.4 million) annually to run a country,
people tend to expect results. When they don’t get them, the
aggrieved masses turn to that lowest-of-common-denominator
gripes: Hey, how much are we paying this guy?  Lots compared with, say,  Barack Obama , who as U.S.
president gets $400,000 a year. Lee’s compensation will fall 36
percent, and that of Singapore’s president will drop 51 percent,
to S$1.54 million. The cuts were based on the  recommendations  of
an advisory committee formed three weeks after last May’s
elections, when opposition party candidates made hay with the
pay issue -- and the ruling People’s Action Party won with the
narrowest margin since independence in 1965.  Such still-fat paychecks may give pause. Yet let’s applaud
Singapore for what it’s trying to achieve by paying top salaries
to leaders and ministers: attracting the best and brightest to
public service and reducing the temptation to engage in graft.
Done properly, such initiatives can make government more
efficient and economies more vibrant. Transparency International
has ranked Singapore among the world’s top five least-corrupt
governments since 2001, and according to  Worldwide Governance
Indicators , an index supported by the  World Bank , it has also
been among the best governed.  Asia’s Mixed Record  Since the 1997 Asian crisis, the region’s other governments
have had a mixed record in holding public servants to account,
making growth more efficient, and creating the institutions --
independent judiciaries, central banks and media as well as
freer watchdog groups -- needed to clean up political and
economic systems. One way for Asian countries, home to a big
share of the world’s households living on $2 per day, to boost
their economies is to increase the pay of their civil servants.  Take Cambodia, which ranked at the bottom of a  recent 
regional Transparency International corruption survey. Its
government workers pad their paltry, sporadic pay by demanding
bribes for everything from birth certificates to school grades.
One oft-cited  International Monetary Fund   working paper  argues
that paying civil servants twice the wages of manufacturing
workers is associated with a reduction in corruption. In
Cambodia, civil servants make less than half what a garment
worker makes.  In China, corruption is the common link between state-owned
banks doling out billions of dollars to cronies; land grabs by
local government officials; and the negligence that killed 40
people in a high-speed rail crash last July. If Beijing paid
higher salaries, it might reduce the incidence of graft and
rent-seeking that aggravates the lopsidedness of China’s
development. Its  Gini (DFIGCN)  coefficient, an income-distribution gauge,
has climbed to almost 0.5 from less than 0.3 a quarter-century
ago.  Japan  should consider fattening public paychecks, too.
Although Japan’s best and brightest are still drawn by the
prestige of a government career, over the past two decades the
differential between private and public salaries has grown.
Ministerial slush funds help make up the difference, and in
recent years, numerous scandals have arisen involving
bureaucrats using such money for limousines, louche excursions,
and golf-club memberships.  More fundamentally, Japan’s economic model encourages
dangerous collusion between the public and private sectors. The
root of the problem is “amakudari,” or “descent from
heaven.” It’s the main gravy train for public servants; when
they retire, ministers and bureaucrats get cushy jobs in
industries they oversaw while in government. The incentive is to
look out for your future employer, not taxpayers.  Japan’s Rotten Example  Japan’s nuclear crisis, for example, was made worse by
power-industry regulators focused on their post-government
careers, not Japan’s 126 million people. Pledges by Japan’s
ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan to abolish amakudari have gone
unfulfilled. But for the sake of its citizens’ welfare, Japan
needs to end the practice, perhaps in return for better salaries
and pensions.  Of course, throwing money at corruption won’t make it go
away. If it did, countries such as  Kenya , which pays its members
of Parliament handsomely -- more than $13,000 a month -- would
be paragons of virtue instead of cellar-dwellers in  Transparency
International ’s annual  Corruption Perceptions Index . Decent
salaries are just one incentive that can tilt the cost-benefit
analyses of potential bribe-takers toward probity: More
important than reducing the potential financial benefits of
corruption is increasing the probability of detection and
meaningful punishment.  Singapore isn’t exactly a hotbed of anti-corruption
muckraking. According to the 2010 U.S. State Department Human
Rights Report, journalists in Singapore practice “self-
censorship,” the level of public debate is “moderate,” and
opposition parties face “formidable obstacles.” Yet the city-
state does have an aggressive Corrupt Practices Investigation
Bureau; professional courts; a ramrod political will inculcated
by its first prime minister, Lee Kwan Yew (father of Lee Hsien
Loong); and a ruthless, relentless emphasis on efficiency and
results.  Not every country can follow that recipe, especially those
with larger, more diverse populations. Still, countries like
 Cambodia  can start by auditing its public services to get a
sense of how bad corruption really is -- something that it will
have to do in any case to comply with the  United Nations
Convention Against Corruption . Civil-society groups can help
greatly in that process: We think the UN would be wise to let
them take part in the process it has created to review a
country’s anti-corruption efforts.  Japan could benefit greatly from an independent watchdog
agency to investigate corruption; given its global influence, we
also don’t understand why it is one of only 35 countries yet to
ratify the UN convention. And even if the huge internal
challenges of fighting corruption in  China  risk tampering with
the prerogatives of Communist Party control, the government
could crack down on the pervasive bribe-mongering of Chinese
companies overseas, which presents a huge global challenge.  There’s an old saying in  Asia  that the real money is in
government. Not the paychecks, but the kickbacks. Isn’t it
possible that a bit more capitalism at the highest levels of
public service will make capitalism itself more efficient and
equitable? We think Singapore proves it can.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 