-- Murray Reaches Final Four of Australian Open as Sharapova, Kvitova Qualify
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-25T06:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/wimbledon-champion-petra-kvitova-advances-to-australian-open-semifinals.html
Andy Murray  defeated Kei Nishikori
to join  Rafael Nadal  and  Roger Federer  in the semifinals of the
Australian Open, while  Maria Sharapova  and Wimbledon champion
Petra Kvitova completed the women’s final-four lineup.  Murray, the No. 4 seed from Britain, ended Nishikori’s bid
to become the first Japanese man to reach a tennis Grand Slam
semifinal in 79 years with a 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 victory at Melbourne
Park, where he was the runner-up the past two years.  Murray, 24, wore down the 22-year-old Nishikori, who played
two five-set matches on his run to the quarterfinals. Although
Murray struggled with his first serve, getting only 44 percent
in, he got 85 percent of his returns in against Nishikori, who
was hampered by 39 unforced errors.  “He’s had a few long matches and I thought the first two
sets he fought really well, there were a lot of close games,”
Murray said in a televised court-side interview. “I didn’t
serve particularly well. The returning was good, so that was a
positive, but I need to improve my serve for sure.”  If No. 1-ranked Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  wins his
quarterfinal tonight against Spaniard  David Ferrer , it would be
the third time in four Grand Slams that the top four men’s
players made the semifinals. No. 2 Nadal of  Spain  and third-
seeded Federer of  Switzerland  won yesterday to advance to their
first semifinal showdown at a major since 2005.  Women’s No. 4 Sharapova beat Ekaterina Makarova to set up a
rematch of the 2011 Wimbledon final against second-seeded
Kvitova, who defeated the unseeded Sara Errani. Both women’s
semifinals are scheduled for tomorrow, with the championship
contest on Jan. 28.  Murray’s Winning Streak  Murray, who’s seeking to become the first British man to
win a Grand Slam title since 1936, extended his winning streak
in 2012 to 10 matches to advance to his fifth straight major
semifinal. He tuned up by winning the Brisbane International
earlier this month, his first tournament since hiring eight-time
Grand Slam champion  Ivan Lendl  as his coach.  Sharapova beat fellow Russian Makarova 6-2, 6-3 to reach
the semifinals in Melbourne for the first time since winning the
title in 2008 for her third Grand Slam championship. She
overpowered 56th-ranked Makarova from the baseline, hitting 26
winners and forcing her opponent into 25 errors.  Sharapova, 24, entered the tournament having not played an
official tour match since October because of an ankle injury and
has dropped just one set in advancing to the final four. She
lost her past two matches to Kvitova.  Sharapova Against Kvitova  “She’s the one to beat right now,” Sharapova said of
Kvitova. “I’m looking forward to the matchup. I don’t like
losing so many times in a row.”  Sharapova, Kvitova and  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus each
can clinch the No. 1 ranking at the end of the tournament after
defending champion  Kim Clijsters  ousted world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki yesterday. Azarenka and Clijsters will meet in
tomorrow’s first semifinal.  Kvitova, 21, earlier beat Errani 6-4, 6-4 to become the
first Czech woman to get to the Australian Open semifinals since
Jana Novotna in 1991. The last left-hander to take the women’s
title was  Monica Seles  in 1996.  Kvitova recovered from 4-1 down in the second set against
the 48th-ranked Italian to reach her third Grand Slam semifinal
after final-four appearances at Wimbledon the past two years.
She held serve for 4-2, then broke Errani’s serve to get the set
back on track before winning the next three games.  “You have a little pressure on your back because you have
a Grand Slam and everybody is expecting that you win all matches
when you play,” Kvitova told reporters. “It’s not really easy.
That’s why I’m really happy to be in the semifinal here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  