-- Wind Energy Subsidy May Be Renewed After Election, Adviser Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-25T16:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/wind-energy-subsidy-may-be-renewed-after-u-s-election-adviser-says.html
The U.S. probably will extend
incentives for the wind  energy industry  regardless of whether
President Barack Obama or the Republicans win the election in
November, a former adviser to the Senate Finance Committee said.  Dean Zerbe , managing director at Alliantgroup, a Houston-
based tax consulting services firm, said in an interview that
the Production Tax Credit probably will be renewed by lawmakers
after the vote or early next year. The wind credit, due to
expire in December, grants an incentive worth 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour of power produced.  Turbine makers such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  are among those pressing Congress to renew the
credit as a buffer to narrowing margins from subsidy cuts in
 Europe  and Chinese competition. Vestas, the world’s biggest
turbine maker, said this month that 1,600 of its U.S. jobs were
at risk should the credit not be extended.  Obama reiterated his support for the measure last night,
saying subsidies are necessary to build the renewable energy
industry just as they’ve sustained oil and natural gas
producers.  “I expect most of them to be continued in place,” Zerbe,
who served as an adviser to Republican Senator  Charles Grassley 
of  Iowa  on the Senate Finance Committee from 2001 to 2008, said
by phone from  Washington .  “I think you’ll see an extension of a lot of these pieces
but probably after the election” in the form of an extenders
bill, Zerbe said. That could also come before, he said
yesterday.  Energy tax-credits are likely to face more scrutiny from
both a Republican or Democrat administration, Zerbe said. “Wind
and other entities are going to have to show that they’re
commercially viable.” The tax credit also covers other
renewable technologies such as geothermal power and biomass.  Obama used his State of Union address to urge Congress to
pass clean energy tax credits to support renewable power while
pledging to establish as much as 10 gigawatts of clean energy on
public land and to create jobs.  “We have subsidized  oil companies  for a century. That’s
long enough,” he said. “It’s time to end the taxpayer
giveaways to an industry that’s rarely been more profitable and
double-down on a clean energy industry that’s never been more
promising.”  Ditlev Engel, chief executive officer of Vestas, said in
November that U.S. turbine sales may “fall off a cliff” unless
lawmakers extended the credit.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  