-- Xerox Drops After Low End of 2012 Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-25T18:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/xerox-drops-after-low-end-of-2012-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, fell the most in more than 20
months after giving earnings forecasts that trailed some
analysts’ estimates as  Europe  weakens.  Xerox  fell  8.6 percent to $7.93 at 1:05 p.m. New York time
after the company gave forecasts for this quarter and full year.
Earlier the stock fell as much as 13 percent for the biggest
intraday decline since May 2010, making it the second-worst
 performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Europe weakened noticeably during the fourth quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Ursula Burns said today. Xerox diversified
into business services as slow economic growth weighs on
information-technology spending. The  World Bank  cut its global-
growth forecast this month, saying a recession in the euro
region may exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets .  The earnings forecast “is a bit softer than hoped for,”
Ananda Baruah, an analyst at New York-based Brean Murray Carret
& Co., said in a note to clients. “We’re hopeful that Xerox has
injected a healthy dose of conservatism into the 2012 guidance
given headwinds” from Europe and foreign exchange.  Earnings, excluding some items, will be 21 cents to 24
cents a share this quarter and $1.12 to $1.18 a share this year,
Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox  said today . Analysts  predicted 
24 cents for the quarter and $1.17 for the year, the average
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Services Focus  The weakness is “all over Europe,” Burns said on a
conference call. “Obviously southern Europe,  Italy ,  Spain ,
 Portugal , Greece etc. are worse than the rest of Europe, but we
do see weakness even in the stronger countries where decisions
are delayed and activity is a little bit lower.”  Xerox added business-process services to its document-
management and printing expertise with its 2010 acquisition of
Affiliated Computer Services Inc. The purchase, Xerox’s largest,
gave it growing  markets , including managing and automating
electronic payments for governments.  The company signed $4.2 billion of new outsourcing business
in the fourth quarter, up 15 percent from a year ago, Chief
Financial Officer Luca Maestri said on the call. Signings
generally incur higher upfront costs and deliver earnings later.  The company plans to spend between $300 million and $400
million on acquisitions this year, primarily on tuck-in services
businesses, Maestri said.  Stock Buybacks  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $375 million from $171
million a year earlier, Xerox said. Earnings excluding some
items climbed to 33 cents a share, matching the average analyst
 estimate . Sales were little changed at $5.96 billion, missing
the $6.07 billion estimated by analysts.  The company spent $392 million repurchasing its shares in
the fourth quarter, and added $500 million to its buyback plan,
boosting the authorized total to $1.3 billion, according to a
filing today. Between $900 million and $1.1 billion will be
spent on buybacks this year, mostly in the second half, Xerox
said on the call.  Xerox will sell some shares in the first half of 2012 to
make pension contributions that have required top-ups since last
year because of low benchmark interest rates, Maestri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  