-- Yapi Kredi Sigorta Surges on Sale Speculation Firm Denies
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-25T16:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/yapi-kredi-sigorta-surges-on-sale-speculation-firm-denies-sale.html
Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR) , Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS’s insurance unit, gained the most in 11 months on
renewed speculation the unit would be sold.  Yapi Kredi Sigora jumped 10 percent to 14.55 liras at the
close in Istanbul trading, its biggest gain since Feb. 28, 2011.
The volume of shares traded reached 320 percent of the stock’s
three-month average.  Haberturk newspaper reported on Jan. 19 Zurich Insurance
Co. Ltd. offered to buy the company. Yapi Kredi Sigorta
corporate communications director Fusun Dedehayir denied today
any sale process was under way.  “The sale rumors are back, and I think Yapi Kredi probably
has an intention to sell,” Sadrettin Bagci, an analyst at
Yatirim Finansman Securities in Istanbul, said by telephone.
“The probability of Yapi Kredi selling is high because their
main peer, Garanti, also sold their insurance unit to Eureko and
because they have one of the lowest capital adequacy ratios in
our market, so they’ve been talking about some kind of
liquidation.”  Yapi Kredi bank had a capital adequacy ratio of 13.6
percent as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average for the Turkish banking industry was 16.4 percent in
the same month, according to data on the banking regulator’s
website. The minimum ratio required in  Turkey  is 12 percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest bank by market
value, sold its remaining 20 percent stake in insurer Eureko
Sigorta BV to Eureko BV last year, making a profit of $84.5
million on the transaction, the company said in July.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi shares advanced 2.3 percent to 3.10
liras today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  