-- Euro Drops as ECB Said to Oppose Greek Debt Loss; Yen Weakens on Deficit
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-25T15:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-25/yen-weakens-after-japan-posts-its-first-annual-trade-deficit-since-1980.html
The euro fell for the first time in
three days versus the dollar after the  European Central Bank  was
said to oppose restructuring its Greek bonds, adding to concern
the nation will fail to win a deal to reduce its debt.  The yen reached its weakest level in almost two months
against the U.S. currency after  Japan  reported its first annual
trade deficit in 31 years, stoking concern the country’s fiscal
health may deteriorate.  South Korea ’s won was the best performer
versus the dollar as exporters converted their foreign exchange
to meet month-end cash demand. The dollar gained against most
its major counterparts as Federal Reserve policy makers prepared
to give projections for borrowing costs for the first time.  “The bondholders seem to be splitting hairs about taking a
big loss or a bigger loss that is bringing on another wave of
nervousness to the market,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in New York. “We don’t
think that a Greek default will send  Europe  in to a tailspin so
the euro won’t be tumbling to $1.20.”  The 17-nation euro slid 0.6 percent to $1.2964 at 10:44
a.m. New York time. It reached $1.3063 yesterday, the highest
level since Jan. 4. The yen depreciated 0.8 percent to 78.28 per
dollar, the weakest since Nov. 29. The euro gained 0.2 percent
to 101.51 yen.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.5 percent to 80.211, before Federal
Reserve policy makers decide on  interest rates .  The Fed said last week it will provide two charts with
forecasts for the benchmark rate after the Federal Open Market
Committee meeting today. The central bank left the target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
last month and reiterated that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low” rates “at least” through mid-2013. It
will keep the key rate unchanged today, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  South Korea’s won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,125.95 per
dollar after financial markets were closed the past two days for
the lunar New Year holiday. Overseas investors bought more
Korean shares than they sold for a 10th straight day according
to  exchange data .  Pound Down  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5580 after a report showed
U.K. gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent from the
third quarter, compared with a drop of 0.1 percent forecast by
33 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The declines in sterling were limited after  Bank of England 
Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that policy makers can
increase stimulus again if needed to guard against a “renewed
severe downturn.”  It gained 0.2 percent to 83.24 pence per euro.  The yen dropped against the dollar after the Ministry of
Finance said Japan’s exports dropped 8 percent in December from
a year earlier. The median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 7.4 percent decline.  The U.S. currency has strengthened 1.6 percent against the
yen so far this year after depreciating 5.2 percent last year
and almost 13 percent in 2010.  Yen Matters  “We could be at some kind of long-term turning point on
dollar-yen, although I think it might turn like an ocean liner
rather than a speed boat,” said Paul Day, chief strategist at
Market Securities in  London . A close above 78.50 this month
could see the dollar could climb as high as 95.85 yen, he said.  The yen has fallen 2.4 percent in the past week against
nine developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
depreciated 0.4 percent while the euro has gained 0.6 percent.  While the ECB faces pressure to join private-sector
investors in taking losses on Greek securities, the central bank
sees this as potentially damaging to confidence in the
institution, according to two people familiar with the Governing
Council’s stance, who declined to be identified because the
matter is confidential.  Euro Risks  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro against the
dollar increased for a fourth day. Risk-reversal rates for
three-month options on the euro versus the dollar were negative
1.66 percent today from negative 1.65 percent yesterday. It has
climbed from as low as negative 4.4 percent in November.  “The near-term risks are rising rapidly compared to where
they were a week ago and that’s likely to put downward pressure
on euro,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto. “We’ve had an environment of
very low volatility so that is good for carry trades where
Aussies is played on the long side.”  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies rose to 10.66 percent, the most since Jan. 17,
according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . An increase makes
investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates
less attractive as the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profits.  Australia ’s dollar rose to a 12-week high against the yen
after one of the  Reserve Bank ’s measures of underlying inflation
gained more than estimated, boosting speculation the central
bank may have less scope to cut borrowing costs.  Australia’s dollar climbed 0.5 percent to 81.94 yen after
earlier advancing to 82.15, the highest level since Nov. 1. The
Aussie dollar was 0.2 percent weaker at $1.0467.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  