-- 
H&M Earnings Drop Beats Estimates as Retailer Minimizes Damage to Margins

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-09-29T11:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/h-m-earnings-fall-less-than-analysts-forecast.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported a drop in third-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as the company
contained the impact of higher cotton prices and wages in Asia.  Operating profit fell 17 percent to 4.71 billion kronor
($700 million) in the three months ended Aug. 31, Stockholm-
based H&M said today in a statement. The average of 17 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 4.35 billion kronor. The
gross margin narrowed to 58.6 percent from 60.5 percent a year
earlier, beating the 57.8 percent average estimate.  H&M shares rose to the highest in more than a month. In
addition to a near doubling in the price of cotton last year,
the retailer has also had to contend with higher labor expenses
in  Asia , where it gets about 75 percent of its clothes. Future
earnings may benefit from a 54 percent decline in cotton prices
since they surged to a record in March.  “Gross margin is a relief,” Jan Meijer, an analyst at ING
Commercial Banking in Amsterdam, said in an e-mail. “The market
was worried that H&M margins would be impacted heavily by higher
cotton prices and wages in Asia.”  H&M gained as much as 5.7 percent in Stockholm trading and
was up 9.2 kronor, or 4.7 percent, at 205 kronor as of 1 p.m.  Higher Inventory  “The third quarter could have been a lot worse from an
input costs perspective, given higher cotton costs still
filtering through to the company,” Societe Generale analyst
 Anne Critchlow  said in an e-mail today.  H&M said margins were affected by high cotton prices and
the impact of currency shifts on buying expenses. H&M pays for
about three-quarters of its products in dollars.  The retailer, which plans to start a collection designed by
Donatella Versace in the fall, increased its target for store
openings this year to 265 from 250. The start of an online store
in the U.S. has been pushed back to the fall from spring 2012.  “H&M is the strongest space expansion story under our
coverage in the clothing retail subsector,” said Critchlow, who
has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  H&M said inventory rose 26 percent to 13.3 billion kronor
in the third quarter, partly because of expansion and higher
purchasing costs, and also due to lower-than-planned sales.  “H&M continues to gain market share in a challenging
environment for the fashion retail industry,” Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Johan Persson said in the statement.  Sales this month have risen 3 percent to date, H&M said,
down from 8 percent growth in August, as warmer-than-average
weather in much of  Europe  weighed on clothing purchases.  “Current trading is poor and inventory is a real
concern,” said Liberum Capital analyst  Simon Irwin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  