-- 
‘Reinvented’ Uruguay Trades at Investment Grade on Closer Ties to Brazil

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 
2011-09-29T21:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/-reinvented-uruguay-trades-at-investment-grade-on-closer-ties-to-brazil.html
Long vulnerable to periodic
financial crisis in neighboring  Argentina , Uruguay’s growing
ties with Brazil and more diversified exports are prompting
investors to bet the country is heading toward its first
investment-grade rating since 2002.  Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo, in an interview at
Montevideo’s World Trade Center, said investors are already
treating the country like one of the safest borrowers in Latin
America after the government reduced its debt denominated in
dollars and dependence on commodities exports.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Uruguayan bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 2 basis point, or 0.02
percentage points, to 290 at 5:48 p.m. New York time. That’s
less than investment-grade countries including Russia and  Poland 
and above the 261 basis points investors demand for Peruvian
debt, another investment-grade nation.  “The  ratings agencies  aren’t always right,´´ said the 51-
year-old Lorenzo, who continues to teach economics at
Montevideo’s Universidad de la Republica even as he steers the
nation’s economy.  Uruguay learned to diversify after Argentina’s $95 billion
default in 2001 pushed the economy into recession and forced it
to restructure $5 billion of debt in 2003. A $1.2 billion pulp
and paper mill inaugurated in 2007 is boosting trade with  Europe 
and markets are opening up in places like  Turkey , where exports
climbed 140 percent this year. The country’s banks, long a haven
for foreign investors, depend less on Argentine deposits.  ‘Better Prepared´  “They have re-invented themselves,” said  Mauro Leos , an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in a phone interview from
 New York . “They are one of the countries better prepared to
handle the bad news.”  President Jose Mujica, a former member of the Tupamaros
guerrilla movement, has continued the market-friendly policies
of the previous government, which won Uruguay three credit
upgrades from Moody’s since 2006. While officials including
central bank Governor Mario Bergara have said an investment
grade rating is overdue, the government’s attention is now
focused on cushioning the $44 billion agricultural and services-
based economy from the global slowdown.  Rate Cut?  As in Brazil, where the central bank last month cut
 interest rates  in the face of accelerating inflation, policy
makers in Uruguay today had to decide at their quarterly meeting
whether to reverse the direction of monetary policy even with
prices expected to rise 7 percent both this year and next.  The five-member policy committee, led by Bergara, today
kept the benchmark rate at 8 percent.  Florencia Carriquiry, an economist at Deloitte Montevideo
Research, said Bergara had good arguments to leave the benchmark
rate unchanged.  “It would be more cautious to pause and wait a quarter to
see whether the market turmoil impacts the local economy or
not,” said Carriquiry in a phone interview.  Eight of 11 analysts surveyed by El Pais newspaper expected
the bank to leave borrowing costs on hold after it raised them
150 basis points at its two meetings this year. The remaining
three forecasted a rate cut after inflation reached 7.57 percent
in August, above the upper limit of the bank’s target range of 4
percent to 6 percent.  Market Performance  Moody’s raised  Uruguay ’s rating to Ba1, one level below
investment grade, in December 2010, putting the country in the
same category as Guatemala and  Morocco .  Standard & Poor’s  also
rates them one notch below investment grade.  Leos said today that Moody’s will visit Uruguay to discuss
their ratings outlook with officials in the final quarter of the
year. Among Uruguay’s vulnerabilities are the economy’s small
size, which magnifies the impact of any shock such as a drought,
and still high levels of dollarized debt. No single factor is an
impediment to a ratings upgrade, he added  “The crisis is a  stress test  for every country,´´ Leos
said in an interview today alongside Lorenzo. “It’s probably
going to be ugly and worse than we imagine now.´´  The Uruguayan peso has fallen 1.1 percent this year to
20.125 per dollar compared with a 9.7 percent plunge in the
Brazilian real and a 5.4 percent fall in the Argentine peso.  Maintaining Growth  Lorenzo repeated today the government hopes the economy
will expand 6 percent this year. Efforts in recent years to
reduce public debt levels have prepared the economy well to
withstand more turbulence in global financial markets, he said.
If the global slowdown deepens, Uruguay’s exports could suffer
more than they were during the 2008 global recession, he added.  “We don’t feel like we’re in a crisis but we know that in
some way it may hit us,´´ Lorenzo said. “  Sandwiched between  Brazil  and Argentina, Uruguay also
suffers the effects of decisions taken by its bigger neighbors
and partners along with  Paraguay  in the Mercosur trade bloc.  Last week, El Pais reported that Effa Motors laid off 400
workers and closed its plant in  San Jose  after Brazil raised a
tax on imported vehicles like the ones Effa assembles from
 China . On Sept. 27, after officials traveled to Brasilia to
protest, the two countries reached an accord exempting Uruguay
from the tax increase.  Dependence on Argentina  Since Argentina’s 2001 crisis, Uruguay has lessened its
dependence on Argentina. The share of total exports going south
across the Rio de la Plata has declined by half from a 26.8
percent average between 1996 and 2001, according to Moody’s.
Trade with Brazil rose 82 percent to $3.1 billion from 2006 to
2010 compared with a 46 percent increase with Argentina to $1.9
billion over the same period.  Deposits by Argentines, who traditionally have taken
advantage of Uruguay’s bank secrecy laws to evade taxes, have
also shrunk to 15 percent of the financial system’s total, or
$2.8 billion, from 40 percent in 2001, according to the central
bank.  While the country has made great strides, its economy must
be able to compete at a global level, said Leos.  The  World Economic Forum  this month ranked Uruguay 63rd on
a list of 142 countries in terms of competitiveness, placing it
behind countries including Iran, Mauritius and  Sri Lanka .  “In the context of  Latin America , they appear pretty
good,” said Leos. “But what is relevant is the global
comparison. If you are small you can be more flexible. They have
to exploit the positive advantage of their small size.´´  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Montevideo at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  