-- 
Anonymous Web ‘Trolls’ Are Targeted by Company Lawyers in U.K. Lawsuits

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/-trolls-who-complain-online-have-anonymity-targeted-in-british-lawsuits.html
People who use fake names to post
critical comments about companies on websites may not be as
anonymous as they think, as firms use the courts to unmask
online accusers.  MoneySavingExpert, a British personal finance site with
5 million readers, was forced to hand over personal details
about three users calling themselves Againstjpc, GomerPyle and
Ladybirds, following a London court ruling in August. The three
wrote comments on the website accusing JPC Group Sales Ltd., an
affiliate of a U.K. publishing company, of being a “criminal
enterprise” and “a scam,” the company said in court filings.  Similar orders have been granted in the U.K. over comments
posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  blogs and comment boards at its YouTube
unit’s website, said Yair Cohen, a lawyer for JPC. Louise
Rutter, spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-based Google,
declined to comment.  “There have been a few of these cases and they are
becoming more common,” said Korieh Duodu, a media law
specialist at London firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP. “It is clear
there is a significant footprint left by Web users, who are not
always aware of how much information can be revealed about their
identities when they publish material online.”  While  Internet users  have traditionally enjoyed the freedom
to air controversial views without using real names, courts can
order websites to hand over e-mail and Internet-protocol
addresses, and other personal details, if anonymous comments go
too far. A person who disrupts Web forums with inflammatory or
offensive remarks is known as a “troll” in Internet slang.  ‘Online Anonymity’  Disclosing the identity of Web users shouldn’t be taken
lightly, said Eric King, human rights and technology adviser at
advocacy group Privacy International. It could even be illegal,
unless the comments caused serious harm.  “Online anonymity is a hugely important aspect of the
right to privacy,” he said.  In 2007, the owner of a fan site for soccer club Sheffield
Wednesday was forced to disclose the identities of several users
after what a judge described as a “sustained campaign of
vilification” against the club’s directors. Financial websites
Motley Fool and Interactive Investor had to provide information
about a user known as Zeddust in 2001, following a lawsuit filed
by internet service provider Totalise Plc.  In the U.S., with stricter laws protecting freedom of
speech, judges have sometimes found in favor of victims of
online abuse. Former model Liskula Cohen won an order from a New
York judge in 2009 requiring Google to identify a blogger who
defamed her, while another model, Carla Franklin, won a similar
ruling in 2010 over comments made on YouTube.  Court Order  Cohen, the JPC lawyer at firm Bains Cohen, said the company
would now apply for an order against Internet provider  TalkTalk
Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  to get the physical address of one of the
individuals who posted the remarks on MoneySavingExpert. The
company plans to sue the person for defamation, he said.  TalkTalk said in a statement it “would never disclose any
information” without a court order.  JPC, part of the  Wyvern Media  brand which publishes the
Lincolnshire Telegraph and the North London Chronicle, said in
an e-mailed statement that anonymous posters of abuse cost small
businesses hundreds of thousands of pounds every month. “We are
determined to bring our abusers to justice,” it said.  Brendan Perrett, head of operations at MoneySavingExpert,
said the site hadn’t initially provided information about its
users because of its privacy policy and the U.K. Data Protection
Act.  “The job of balancing the consumer viewpoint and right to
give their views without letting people unfairly tarnish
companies’ reputations is never an easy one,” he said.  Duodu said the issue of freedom of speech had to be
considered by companies deciding to tackle online abuse.  “The other concern for corporations is that they should be
wary of stifling genuine debate. Seeking the closure of websites
because of a few detractors can lead to a massive public
relations own goal,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  