-- 
Abandoned Airport May Help Solve Hong Kong’s Office Shortage

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-30T07:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/abandoned-kai-tak-airport-may-be-answer-to-hong-kong-office-space-problem.html
Hong Kong’s abandoned Kai Tak
Airport, idle for 13 years, may hold the answer to a space
shortage in the world’s costliest office market where banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  jostle for towers.  Visible across Victoria Harbour from the banking heart of
Central, the overgrown landing strips and dilapidated hangars on
which the government plans to build housing and a stadium cover
an area almost the size of  New York ’s Central Park. The site
could be redeveloped to add as much as 40 million square feet of
prime offices by 2021, said Nicholas Brooke, founder of Hong
Kong-based Professional Property Services Ltd. That’s three
times as much as  London ’s  Canary Wharf .  Brooke said that in the past six months he met with the
Asian heads of four of the world’s biggest investment banks and
heard the same message: If rents keep going up and  Hong Kong 
doesn’t build more prime office space, they soon will have to
relocate parts of their operations to other Asian cities.  “These are no longer threats but serious possibilities,”
said Brooke, a former managing director of Swire Properties Ltd.,
the biggest commercial landlord in the city’s Island East
district, another area that’s attracting tenants away from
Central. “If we can’t provide the answer to their entire needs,
then they’ll leave parts of their operation here” and move some
of the others to  Shanghai  or  Singapore .  Cost Problem  Prime office rents in the financial gateway to  China  have
risen 60 percent since July 2009, according to  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. (CBG)  Hong Kong rents in buildings considered of high
quality were $9.80 a square foot per month at the end of the
second quarter, compared with $8.40 in Singapore and $3.90 in
Shanghai, according to  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc., the world’s
biggest privately held commercial brokerage.  Singapore-listed  Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL) , the biggest
office landlord in Central, has risen 34 percent since July 2009,
compared with the 13 percent decline in the Hang Seng Property
Index, which tracks the seven biggest developers traded in Hong
Kong.  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the biggest landlord in the city’s
Island East district, has lost 2 percent during the same period.  There was no new supply of prime office space in Central
from 2007 to 2010, while this year developers may add a total of
123,000 square feet to the district, CB Richard Ellis research
shows. That compares with more than 2.5 million square feet of
new space added from 2002 to 2006.  “We’re getting close to a point when rents become
unaffordable,” said  Simon Smith , Hong Kong-based head of Asia
research at Savills Plc. “If you look around other office
markets in the world, they’ve all over time been forced to
develop decentralized office areas.”  ‘Dragon Dance’  Canary Wharf, in the East of London, was transformed from
disused docks and warehouses into the city’s second financial
center in the 1980s and 1990s. The area contains about 14
million square feet of office and retail space, including the
headquarters of  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and Barclays Plc.  The prime office vacancy rate in Central, where HSBC and
Goldman Sachs have regional headquarters, fell to 3.7 percent in
July from almost 6 percent two years earlier, Los Angeles-based
CB Richard Ellis said.  Rents in Central range from HK$60 ($7.70) to HK$170,
according to CB Richard Ellis. In Kowloon East, home to the
derelict  airport , rents cost from HK$14 to HK$32.  “Hong Kong’s office market is like a dragon dance,” said
John Siu, Hong Kong-based executive director at Cushman &
Wakefield, referring to a Chinese festive dance in which a team
manipulates a serpent’s body on poles to make it move in an
undulating manner. “Any price change in Central would have a
domino effect on other areas, but there won’t be much change in
the price gap.”  Hair-Raising Landings  Financial services companies began moving parts of their
offices to Kowloon East -- an area of industrial complexes and
lower-middle class housing that spans three subway stations --in
the late 1990s as they sought to save on rent. The area, with a
lower skyline because of its proximity to the old airport, has
about 9.1 million square feet of  office space , according to CB
Richard Ellis.  The 320-hectare (791-acre) airport site is about seven
miles across Victoria Harbour from Central. Mountains to its
north and nearby skyscrapers forced pilots to make sharp turns
at low altitudes to line up with a runway extending onto
reclaimed land jutting into the harbor. The landing maneuvers
and descent over heavily populated areas, including six-story
buildings across the road from the main runway’s north end,
ranked Kai Tak among the world’s most dangerous airports.  Millennium City  Since the airport’s relocation to Chep Lap Kok on the
outlying  Lantau Island , the Kai Tak site has been used as
government offices, car dealerships and showrooms, a bowling
alley and a golf range. French-Canadian diva Celine Dion
performed there in January 1999.  Millennium City , a cluster of newer office buildings
developed by  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , has attracted the
back offices of banks such as Standard Chartered Plc and Bank of
East Asia Ltd. to East Kowloon. Manulife Financial Corp. last
year moved its Hong Kong headquarters to the district, while
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has also relocated part of its
operations there.  “We can really have a Canary Wharf here if the government
gets its act together,” said  John Davies , a Hong Kong-based
executive director at CB Richard Ellis.  After spending 10 years in public discussion and
consultation, the government in 2007 came up with an outline for
the site’s redevelopment. The current plan includes building
more than 33,000 units of public and private housing, 20 million
square feet of office, retail and hotel spaces, cruise terminals
and a stadium.  Removing Stigma  The plan for the development of Kai Tak “had evolved
several times to meet changing community aspirations” before it
was approved, the government’s Civil Engineering and Development
Department, which is in charge of the development of Kai Tak,
said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg questions.  Central’s surging costs have already prompted defections.
In 2007, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG moved their entire operations in the city across the
harbor to the  International Commerce Centre  in West Kowloon, a
reclaimed area that’s a five-minute train ride from Central.  Property prices on the Kowloon Peninsula, north of Victoria
Harbour, have historically been below those of  Hong Kong Island ,
home to the city’s financial district and its most expensive
residential area. Before the completion of ICC, few banks would
have considered setting up front offices in Kowloon, said Davies.  The move to West Kowloon “has removed the negative stigma
of Kowloon,” he said. “To attract the same caliber of clients
to East Kowloon, the infrastructure in that area needs to be
improved.”  Overtaking Central  Before that, the government needs to be persuaded to change
existing plans for the old airport, including relocating the
stadium to make way for more office buildings.  The government is “determined to increase the supply of
top-quality office space,” Secretary for Development Carrie Lam
said in a speech at a Sept. 17 conference in Hong Kong. Lam
cited the development of “new office nodes” including West
Kowloon and Kai Tak as part of its strategy, along with freeing
up more land in Central and revitalizing former industrial areas.  Gavin Morgan, managing director of office at Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. in Hong Kong, is among those betting Kowloon East
may help solve the city’s office space shortage.  “Within the next decade, Kowloon East will be made the
largest commercial district in Hong Kong,” he said. “But it
will very much be considered a non-core central business
district because there’s not a dominant landlord developing the
whole district.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  