-- 
Madoff, Goldman, HSBC, SunTrust, Google in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-29T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/madoff-mets-hsbc-google-health-care-law-in-court-news.html
Bernard Madoff’s investors could
lose $3 billion if the liquidator of the con man’s firm doesn’t
succeed in overturning a judge’s ruling that dismissed much of
his $1 billion claim against the owners of the  New York  Mets.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff on Sept. 27 dismissed nine
of 11 causes of action asserted by trustee Irving Picard against
trusts and individuals linked to Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. He
said Picard could try to reclaim only two years of withdrawals
from the Ponzi scheme.  The ruling would cut Picard’s recoveries from the Mets
owners to $386 million, and halve the amount the trustee can
take back from all Madoff investors,  David Sheehan , a lawyer for
Picard, told reporters after a court hearing yesterday.  “The difference for the whole case is about $3 billion,”
he said. Under New York State law, the trustee could take back
withdrawals over six years, he said.  Picard will first ask Rakoff to approve an appeal to the
federal appeals court in New York. The appeals court will then
decide whether to review the ruling. Picard, who got a favorable
ruling from the appeals court on his formula for compensating
investors who lost money, may win again, said Chip Bowles, a
bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in
Louisville, Kentucky, who isn’t involved in the case.  “There is every chance the Second Circuit will allow the
trustee to use state law to pursue claims under the New York
time limits,” he said in an e-mail.  Rakoff set a trial date of March 19 for the trustee’s case
against the Mets owners, after quizzing both sides yesterday on
their plans to bring in expert witnesses. He said he was
“skeptical” about the trustee’s desire to bring in an expert
on investors’ fiduciary duties -- Picard based his claims for
the $1 billion on allegations the Mets owners failed in their
duty to probe Madoff’s fraud despite so-called red flags that
warned of irregularities.  Rakoff, who said in his ruling, “A securities investor has
no inherent duty to inquire about his stockbroker,” told
Sheehan the subject was “a matter of law,” not “a matter for
experts.” He was also skeptical of listening to an expert on
red flags, whom Sheehan proposed bringing, he said.  Rakoff’s ruling that the trustee can only take back two
years of withdrawals was good news for investors facing so-
called clawback suits, from the Mets owners’ group to
individuals who took more money out of the Ponzi scheme than
they put in.  The case is: Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Lawsuit Over CDO Loss  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won dismissal of a lawsuit brought
by Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg over losses on $37 million in
collateralized debt obligations.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley III in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that the bank didn’t sufficiently back up its claims
against Goldman Sachs, which underwrote Davis Square, a CDO
collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities in
2006, and against Los Angeles-based TCW Asset Management Co.,
which manages collateral for asset-backed securities.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, and TCW sold the Davis
Square securities to institutional investors, marketing it as a
$2 billion “High Grade Structured Product CDO” backed by
investment-grade mortgage-backed securities, Pauley said in his
opinion yesterday. LBBW bought two notes totaling $37 million.  Pauley said about 79 percent of the mortgages underlying
Davis Square were below prime and at an increased risk of
default. He ruled that LBBW failed to allege specific facts to
support its claims for fraud and unjust enrichment. He also said
the bank was a sophisticated investor that accepted the risks of
its investment.  LBBW, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , sued in October 2010.
The bank claimed that Goldman knew many of the mortgages didn’t
conform to the requirements for inclusion in the CDO and that
they were riskier than indicated in the Davis Square offering
circular. The bank claimed Goldman Sachs also concealed the true
risk of the mortgages from ratings companies, which gave Davis
Square a triple-A rating.  A voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling from
LBBW’s press services department wasn’t returned after regular
business hours in Germany.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg v. Goldman Sachs,
10-7549, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  HSBC  India  Client Indicted by U.S. Over $8.7 Million Account  A Wisconsin neurosurgeon was re-indicted by a U.S. grand
jury on new charges that he failed to declare an  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  account in India valued in 2009 at $8.7 million.  Arvind Ahuja was indicted again by a federal grand jury in
 Milwaukee , where he was initially charged June 28 with
concealing accounts from the Internal Revenue Service. The nine-
count indictment added a charge that Ahuja conspired with two
HSBC India bankers to defraud the IRS from 2006 to 2009.  The charges against Ahuja come amid a widening U.S.
crackdown on offshore tax evasion that includes grand jury
investigations of eight foreign banks. Prosecutors have filed
criminal tax charges against more than three dozen former U.S.
clients of UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s two
biggest banks, and London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank.  Ahuja took steps to hide his offshore accounts, according
to the indictment made public yesterday. In 2007, an HSBC India
banker told a colleague that Ahuja “has requested that he does
not want any kind of mail at his US or India address,”
according to the indictment. “He wants a HOLD on all his
accounts.”  Prosecutors said Ahuja failed to report more than $1.2
million in interest income, pay taxes due or file Reports of
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or FBARs.  Dan K. Webb, Ahuja’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement that the government’s allegations are “far off-base,
and we will continue to present a vigorous, fact-based
defense.”  The bank’s failure to issue Ahuja documents stating his
interest income “directly caused” the prosecution, Webb said.  “Dr. Ahuja has paid all U.S. income taxes on all monies
deposited into these foreign bank accounts as well as his
personal income in the U.S.,” he said. “The only issue is
taxes owed on the interest earned in these foreign bank
accounts.”  After Ahuja became aware that the bank didn’t report
interest income to him, he paid all taxes, interest and
penalties, according to Webb. The charges “have absolutely
nothing to do with Dr. Ahuja’s practice of medicine, and Dr.
Ahuja’s primary focus remains on providing his patients with
world-class neurological case.”  The case is U.S. v. Ahuja, 11-cr-00135, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  For more, click here.  SunTrust, M&T Win Delay in Overdraft-Fee Cases During Appeal  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  and two other banks
accused of gouging customers on overdraft fees won a delay of
lawsuits against them while an appeals court considers whether
the plaintiffs have to go through arbitration.  U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami put the
case on hold as the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta reviews his
Sept. 1 decision allowing the plaintiffs -- customers with debit
cards attached to their checking accounts -- to proceed with
their lawsuits. King rejected the banks’ argument that the
customers were legally bound to arbitrate the dispute.  Arbitration agreements for SunTrust, M&T,  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)  and Branch Banking & Trust Co. are “unconscionable” and
can’t be enforced, King said in his opinion. He said the Supreme
Court ruling in AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, which involved
arbitration agreements for  AT&T Inc. (T)  wireless customers, didn’t
require arbitration in every case.  In a two-page ruling yesterday, King said the parties in
the case had agreed to the delay during the appeal.  Bruce Rogow, an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t return
a call seeking comment on the order.  The litigation before King involves more than 30 banks sued
over their overdraft-fee policies. The customers claim the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  The plaintiffs’ lawyers argued that forcing customers into
arbitration would effectively bar millions of customers from
pursuing claims individually because they aren’t worth the
effort.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest  U.S. bank , in February
agreed to pay $410 million without admitting liability to settle
an overdraft lawsuit brought by its customers.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  Google Asks Judge in AT&T Case to Protect ‘Sensitive’ Data  Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a U.S. judge overseeing the government’s
lawsuit seeking to stop AT&T Inc. from buying T-Mobile USA Inc.
for a chance to contest the disclosure of its confidential data
in the case.  Google, which provided the information to the Justice
Department in its investigation of the proposed T-Mobile deal,
made its request Sept. 27 in federal court in  Washington .
Google, describing the data as “competitively sensitive” and
related to internal products and launch plans, urged U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to have the parties give the
company advance notice of possible disclosures in court or to
experts.  “Without such additional protection, Google and other non-
parties could find their confidential information -- such as
Google’s business plans related to Android -- in the hands of
competitors (or their competitors’ consultants), or even in
newspapers, without having had prior notice of its disclosure,”
Google said its request to intervene in the lawsuit.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states joined the government’s effort to
block the deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless
carrier.  Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, didn’t respond Sept.
27 to an e-mail message seeking comment on Google’s request.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  SEC Sues NIR’s Ribotsky for Stealing $1 Million From Clients  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued investment
firm NIR Group LLC and its principal for allegedly hiding poor
performance from investors and siphoning more than $1 million
for personal use.  Corey Ribotsky, the sole managing member of Long Island-
based NIR, wrote checks to himself from the firm’s $876 million
AJW family of  hedge funds  from 2004 to 2009, even after his head
accountant told him he was violating the law, the SEC said
yesterday in a  complaint  filed in federal court in New York. NIR
and Ribotsky will fight the SEC’s claims, according to a
statement from Brad Gerstman, Ribotsky’s lawyer.  NIR’s strategy of buying stakes in distressed and start-up
firms through private investment in public equity, or PIPE
transactions, began to show signs of failure in 2007 when many
of the companies that got financing from AJW funds were
essentially defunct or near bankruptcy, the SEC said in its
lawsuit. The agency also sued Daryl Dworkin, a former NIR
analyst accused of falsifying client reports under Ribotsky’s
direction who pleaded guilty to related criminal charges in July
2010.  “In a classic betrayal of trust, Ribotsky stole from his
investors and falsely assured them that his struggling hedge
funds were thriving,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said in the agency’s statement.  Ribotsky also “repeatedly lied” to investors from 2007 to
2009 about the AJW Funds’ performance and liquidity, telling
them NIR could liquidate investments in 36 to 48 months, “a
practical impossibility” given the size of the investments and
adverse market conditions, the SEC said in the statement.  “The complaint appears to be a stretch in an attempt to
justify approximately two years of time and resources poured
into the investigation,” Gerstman said.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials  Ex-Secret Service Agent on Trial Accused of Foreign Bribery  A former Secret Service official is standing trial with
five other security-company executives in the first prosecution
of alleged foreign bribery based on a government sting operation
run inside the U.S.  R. Patrick Caldwell, former chief executive officer of
 Protective Products of America Inc. (PPAFQ)  and an ex-deputy assistant
director at the Secret Service, is accused of joining an illegal
business deal by agreeing to make payments to an FBI agent
posing as a representative of the west African country of Gabon,
prosecutors said yesterday as trial began in federal court in
Washington.  “Most corrupt deals are never discovered by law
enforcement, but this time someone was watching and someone was
recording the deal -- the FBI,” Laura Perkins, a Justice
Department trial attorney, told the jury.  The trial that opened yesterday is the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. It’s the biggest U.S. prosecution of
individuals accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, or FCPA. A trial of four others arrested in the sting ended
in a mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree on a verdict.  The other defendants in the trial are John Mushriqui, Jeana
Mushriqui, Stephen Giordanella, John Godsey and Marc Morales.
Each is charged with one count of conspiracy and all except
Giordanella also face two to five counts of bribery. The FCPA
conspiracy and bribery charges carry maximum five-year prison
sentences.  All six have pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  States Appeal to U.S. Supreme Court on Obama Health Law  States challenging President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul asked the U.S. Supreme Court to intervene, saying a
federal appeals court didn’t go far enough when it invalidated a
portion of the law.  Adding to calls for the high court to determine the fate of
the law, the 26 states, led by Florida, said yesterday that the
entire measure should be invalidated. The Justice Department
signaled this week that it will file its own Supreme Court
appeal in the case.  The Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals gave
the states a partial victory in their lawsuit challenging the
law, ruling that Congress lacked the constitutional power to
require people to either get insurance or pay a penalty. At the
same time, the court said it would strike down only the mandate,
leaving intact other provisions, including a requirement that
insurers accept applicants with pre-existing conditions.  There is “compelling evidence that Congress intended the
mandate to function as the act’s essential lynchpin and would
never have passed the act without it,” the states argued in a
Supreme Court filing.  The states are also asking the high court to review the
law’s expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor. The 11th
Circuit upheld that provision, saying it didn’t violate the
rights of the states.  The case is Florida v. U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services.  Ecclestone Gave Gribkowsky Up to $80 Million, Newspaper Says  Gerhard Gribkowsky, a former Bayerische Landesbank risk
manager, may have received as much as $70 million or $80 million
from Formula One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone,
Handelsblatt reported, citing a document from Munich
prosecutors.  This is more than previously reported, the newspaper said.
Sven Thomas, Ecclestone’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call from Bloomberg News seeking comment. Handelsblatt said
Gribkowsky’s lawyer didn’t answer detailed questions on the
issue and Ecclestone’s lawyer didn’t want to comment on the
question.  Gribkowsky and Ecclestone said the payments had nothing to
do with the sale of Formula One shares, Handelsblatt reported.
Gribkowsky’s lawyer, Rainer Bruessow, said in August that there
is no evidence supporting the allegations against his client.  A German regional court allowed breach of trust, accepting
bribes and tax evasion charges against Gribkowsky, it said on
Sept. 26. The trial over the sale of the lender’s stake in
Formula One racing is set to start Oct. 24, the regional court
said.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  German Online-Betting Ban Upheld by Appeals Court  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc and other Internet
betting companies lost a series of top appeals court cases over
Germany’s ban on online gambling.  The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil
court, said in five lawsuits brought by state-owned lotteries
that the prohibition is justified to combat dangers associated
with gambling.  “Because of the greater dangers of the Internet, above all
anonymity, lack of social control and accessibility at any time,
this sales venue can be subject to stricter regulation than
traditional offers,” Presiding Judge Joachim Bornkamm said
after delivering the rulings.  The European Union’s top court ruled last year that
Germany’s betting monopoly, which only allows state-controlled
companies to offer most sports betting, violates European laws.
Germany has faced criticism for allowing private horse betting
while outlawing other forms of private sport bets. The EU court
ruling didn’t bring an end to the various suits pending in
Germany over the issue.  Bwin e.K., the German unit that was party to the lawsuit,
said it will review whether to file a constitutional complaint.
The ruling only covers the current regulation that will elapse
at the end of the year, it said.  Yesterday’s cases are, BGH I ZR 189/08 et al.  Reebok, FTC Settle False Sneaker-Claims Case for $25 Million  Reebok International Ltd. agreed to pay $25 million to
resolve government allegations that the sneaker maker
deceptively claimed its so-called toning shoes helped strengthen
leg and buttock muscles.  The settlement with the Federal Trade Commission covers
advertising starting in 2009 for Reebok’s EasyTone walking shoes
and flip flops and RunTone running shoes. The agency said the
ads made unsupported claims that walking in EasyTone footwear
was “proven” to tone buttocks 28 percent more than other
sneakers and build calf muscles by 11 percent more.  “We spent a lot of time examining the evidence the company
put forward and found it wanting,” said  David Vladeck , head of
the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection during a press
conference in Washington yesterday. “This settlement is also to
remind advertisers big and small that they must have adequate
proof before making claims.”  Vladeck declined to comment on whether other shoe companies
are being probed for similar claims.  The settlement prohibits Reebok, a unit of Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based  Adidas AG (ADS) , from making unsubstantiated claims
regarding the strengthening and toning benefits of its footwear,
the agency said. The FTC set up a website for consumers
explaining how to seek a refund for the shoes involved in the
lawsuit.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Reebok
International Ltd., 1:11-cv-02046, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Ohio (Cleveland).  Hypo Real Estate  Minority Squeeze-Out Cleared by Appeals Court  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG’s former minority investors
lost an appeals court ruling over the lender’s rescue by the
government, which forced them to sell their stock.  The Munich Higher Regional Court rejected the plaintiffs’
arguments that the so-called squeeze-out was unconstitutional
and violated European rules, the court said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The step was legal, given “the meaning of the financial
sector for a functioning economy and thus for the stability of
the state and society,” the court said. “Without government
support many lenders would have become bankrupt which would have
caused a breakdown of the financial sector and a recession.”  The German government and financial institutions had to
rescue Hypo Real Estate in 2009 after the lender’s Dublin-based
Depfa Bank Plc unit couldn’t raise financing when the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit markets.  The plaintiffs were seeking to invalidate a decision at
Munich-based Hypo Real Estate’s Oct. 5, 2009, shareholder
meeting, when the government bank-rescue fund, known as Soffin,
used its majority of votes to force minority shareholders
including U.S. investment firm J.C. Flowers & Co. to sell their
shares in a squeeze-out.  A capital increase of 3 billion euros ($4 billion),
excluding subscription rights for shareholders other than
Soffin, was approved at an earlier meeting held on June 2, 2009.
That brought Soffin’s stake in Hypo Real Estate above the 90
percent threshold required to force remaining investors to sell
their stock.  Only about a dozen of the original 38 plaintiffs appealed
the lower court ruling. Flowers didn’t join the appeal.  Hypo Real Estate is the target of several suits over its
near collapse and investor losses. The Munich Higher Regional
Court is also hearing a test case under a mass-litigation
procedure to bundle claims of former holders who seek damages.
Lawyer Andreas Tilp who is representing investors in that case
said their combined claims are worth about 900 million euros.  Yesterday’s case is OLG Muenchen, 7 U 711/11.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 