-- 
Afghanistan Seeks Investors for ‘World-Class’ Mineral Resources

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-30T16:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/afghanistan-has-world-class-mineral-resources-u-s-.html
Afghanistan’s “world-class  mineral
resources ,” including rare-earth elements, gold, iron and
copper, has the potential to transform the country’s economy,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said.  Afghanistan’s ambassador to the U.S., Eklil Hakimi, said
today the new survey data may help stimulate foreign investment
and improve the country’s security.  “Afghanistan has modern hydrocarbon laws and mining laws,
favorable to investors,” Hakimi said in an e-mail. “I believe
that the key to peace in Afghanistan lies in our mineral
resources because lasting security and stability is dependent on
the amount of economic opportunity available to Afghans.”  The USGS used new and existing data to create detailed
digital information  packages  of each mining area. The
information will be distributed by the Afghan ministry of mines
to companies interested in bidding for the mineral rights. The
information “may make bidding and operating in these areas
easier” and reduce  investment risk , the  report  said.  “The mineral resources in Afghanistan have the potential
to completely transform the nation’s economy,” Regina Dubey,
acting director of a U.S. Defense Department task force that
funded the study, said in a news release yesterday.  Development of those resources may help the Obama
administration and allies build Afghanistan’s economy, an
initiative the U.S. says is essential to stabilizing the country
and the region before U.S. forces withdraw in 2014. Development
of the resources is difficult and dangerous while the Taliban
and its allies are seeking to gain control of territory.  Economic Future  “We all recognize that Afghanistan’s political future is
linked to its economic future, and, in fact, to the future of
the entire region,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
Sept. 22.  Clinton made her comments at a meeting with 30 of her
international counterparts on a “New Silk Road” initiative
during the United Nations General Assembly last week. The
initiative aims to encourage investment and create new economic
and transit connections within the region. The group will meet
in Istanbul, Bonn and  Chicago  in the coming months to work out
details.  Rare-earth-based magnets and materials are used in  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerrys,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius cars,
and military radar.  China , a major producer of rare-earth
minerals, has recently scaled back production.  For each “area of interest,” the USGS has listed the main
and minor commodities as well as “possible commodities.” All
the Areas of Interest were selected because they “could
potentially support mineral production in the near future,” the
report said.  The report offered no evaluation of the security situation
in the selected areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  