-- 
Magic Mushrooms Can Make Lasting Personality Changes, Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/magic-mushrooms-can-make-lasting-personality-changes-study-says.html
Psilocybin , or “magic mushrooms,”
can make people more open in their feelings and aesthetic
sensibilities, conferring on them a lasting personality change,
according to a study by Johns Hopkins researchers.  People who had mystic experiences while taking the
mushrooms were more likely to show increases in a  personality
trait  dubbed “openness,” which is related to creativity,
artistic appreciation and curiosity, according to the study in
the  Journal of Psychopharmacology . The change was still in place
a year later, suggesting a long-term effect.  “The remarkable piece is that psilocybin can facilitate
experiences that change how people perceive themselves and their
environment,” said Roland Griffiths, a study author and
professor of psychiatry and behavioral science at  Johns Hopkins
University  of Medicine in Baltimore. “That’s unprecedented.”  Magic mushrooms, also known as “shrooms,” are
hallucinogens native to tropical and subtropical regions of
 South America ,  Mexico  and the U.S. The fungi were favored by
former Harvard psychologist Timothy Leary, who founded the
Harvard Psilocybin Project, and explored by ‘60s writer and
anthropologist Carlos Castaneda. They are typically eaten but
can also be dried and smoked or made into a tea.  Openness is one of  five major personality factors  known to
be constant throughout multiple cultures, heritable in families
and largely unvarying throughout a person’s lifetime. The other
four factors, extroversion, neuroticism, agreeableness and
conscientiousness, were unchanged by being dosed with the
hallucinogenic mushrooms, the study found. This is the first
finding of a short-term intervention providing a long-term
personality change, researchers said.  Mystical Experiences  The 51 participants, who had an average age of 46,
completed two to five eight-hour drug sessions at least three
weeks apart. They were asked to lie down on a couch, use an eye
mask and listen to music on headphones while focusing on an
inner experience. Their personalities were screened initially,
one to two months after each drug session and about a year after
the last trip.  In the test, 30 people had a  mystical experience , as
established by a set of psychological scales. On tests of major
personality traits, their openness scores rose, suggesting a
greater interest in imagination, aesthetics, feelings, ideas and
values. The 22 patients who didn’t have a mystical experience
showed no change.  Potential for Abuse  Psilocybin mushrooms  are a schedule I substance in the
U.S., which means the government considers them to have a high
potential for abuse and no legitimate medical purpose, according
to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Griffith disagrees. He has started two studies, one in
people distressed by recent diagnoses of cancer, and another in
cigarette smokers. The changes to patients’ personalities may
make them more at ease with their cancer diagnosis or make it
easier to give up cigarettes, he said.  “There’s reason to suggest a treatment program may help
patients in opening the mind to other ways of seeing their
behavior,” Griffith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 