-- 
Air India May Seek $2 Billion in Bond Sales to Cut Dependence on Bailout

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-09-29T18:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/air-india-may-sell-bonds-to-raise-100-billion-rupees-ravi-says.html
Air India  Ltd., the state-owned
carrier struggling with losses, plans to raise 100 billion
rupees ($2 billion) selling bonds as it works to reduce
dependence on government bailouts.  The bond sale is part of a turnaround plan the airline has
submitted to the government, Vayalar Ravi,  India ’s civil
aviation minister, said in an interview in his New Delhi office
on Sept. 28. The government hasn’t yet decided on giving
sovereign guarantee for the bonds, he said without specifying a
timeframe for the sale.  Air India is also aiming to “monetize” its land and
buildings by renting them out to other government offices in a
bid to generate cash, Ravi said. The carrier, which has reported
annual losses every year since a merger with Indian Airlines in
2007, has piled up 442 billion rupees of debt after ordering 111
planes from Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)   “It’s a balance between commercial business interest and
debt burden,” Ravi said. “Commercial business interest needs
to be looked into by Air India.”  The minister said Air India’s board is yet to submit its
recommendation on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner to the government.
The carrier has ordered 27 of the jets, and is due to get the
first one in the fourth quarter after more than three years of
delay.  Air India had a domestic market share of 17.4 percent in
August as rivals Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and discount carrier
IndiGo lured customers. Mumbai-based Jet Airways had a market
share of 26.3 percent while IndiGo had 18.8 percent, according
to data from the aviation ministry.  Air India has got 32 billion rupees from government since
April 2009 to help pay salaries and maintain services. The
carrier is asking for 175 billion rupees from the state as it is
losing 260 million rupees a day.  In August, the government also helped the airline secure
jet fuel on credit from state-run refiners for as many as three
months to help ease a cash shortage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  