-- 
Taiwan Ends Five Quarters of Rate Increases

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-29T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/taiwan-s-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-1-875-.html
Taiwan’s central bank refrained
from raising  interest rates , ending five straight quarters of
increases as Asia’s policy makers seek to protect their
economies from a faltering global recovery.  The central bank left the discount rate on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in Taipei yesterday. Fourteen of
the 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the
decision. Three expected an increase to 2 percent.  Central banks from  New Zealand  to  South Korea  refrained
from raising benchmark rates this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a struggling U.S. economy dimmed the outlook for the
region’s exporters. A decline in Taipei home prices from a
record earlier this year and slowing export-order growth have
eased inflation pressures, weakening the case for further
monetary tightening.  “The big environment has turned bad, with U.S., European
economies not doing well, affecting  Taiwan ’s exports,” said
Renee Yang, a Taipei-based economist at Yuanta Securities Co.
The central bank “will probably keep interest rates unchanged
again late December, or may even lower them if the economy turns
for the worse.”  The Taiex stock index rose 0.5 percent yesterday, paring
this year’s decline to 20 percent. The  Taiwan dollar  weakened
0.1 percent to NT$30.440 against its U.S. counterpart at the 4
p.m. close, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The local dollar
weakened the most in more than 10 years on Sept. 22, dropping
1.4 percent.  Currency Moves  Taiwan is ready to curb any currency moves that result from
“irregular” causes, the central bank said.  President Ma Ying-jeou’s government last month cut its
forecast for 2011 growth to 4.81 percent from 5.01 percent and
said the expansion will slow to 4.58 percent in 2012. That’s
less than half the growth pace in 2010 of 10.9 percent, which
was the fastest expansion in  Asia  behind  Singapore ’s, according
to  International Monetary Fund  data.  The administration also lowered its prediction for
inflation this year to 1.59 percent from 1.89 percent. Consumer
prices gained 0.96 percent last year.  “A global slowdown and consumer prices stabilizing led to
the decision,” central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan told
reporters yesterday. Taiwan’s imported inflation will cool as
global prices ease in the next three months after peaking in the
third quarter, he said.  Weaker Growth  Recent reports showed Taiwan’s inflation climbed a less-
than-estimated 1.34 percent in August, while industrial
production also rose a weaker-than-forecast 3.88 percent last
month.  Overseas sales account for about two-thirds of the island’s
$355 billion gross domestic product and help to drive factory
output. The economy expanded 5.02 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, the slowest pace since a 1.21
percent contraction in the third quarter of 2009.  Still, “Taiwan’s economy won’t be as bad as back in
2008,” Perng said yesterday.  Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s
biggest custom manufacturer of  notebook computers , said last
week it offered severance packages to some employees as it
adjusts production.  Quanta will offer early retirement to more than 1,000
workers at its Linkou plant, after poor sales of client  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s Playbook tablet computers, the Taipei-based
Commercial Times reported Sept. 21.  Property Speculators  To deter housing speculators, Taiwan in June began imposing
a 15 percent tax on some residential homes sold within a year of
purchase, and a 10 percent levy on some sold within two years.  The central bank, which has also tightened mortgage lending
rules to fight real-estate speculation, said yesterday that its
measures to control such risks have shown effect.  The average price of existing homes in Taipei fell 1.5
percent to NT$532,000 ($17,400) per ping, equivalent to 36
square feet, in August, after declining the previous month from
a record NT$556,000 in June, according to  Sinyi Realty Co. (9940) , the
island’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  Taiwan’s banks have enough liquidity and the central bank
will continue to issue longer-dated certificates of deposits,
Perng said at a briefing in Taipei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  