-- 
Alaska to BP to Conoco Count On Shell Arctic Bounty

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-01T14:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/alaska-to-bp-to-conoco-count-on-shell-s-bounty-from-arctic-oil.html
(Corrects name of lake in first paragraph of story
published Sept. 29.)  The parking lot at the Millennium
Alaskan Hotel in Anchorage was as jammed at 6:30 a.m. on a
Thursday as the float-plane marina at neighboring Lake Spenard.
About 170 oil executives, tribal entrepreneurs and state
employees entered through a lobby adorned with stuffed polar
bears and mounted moose heads.  The predawn visitors were there to hear Pete Slaiby, 53,
the head of  Alaska  operations for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , outline
the company’s plans to drill in icy Arctic seas.  They came because Shell’s good fortune may also be their
own. The offshore fields the company is seeking U.S. permission
to develop may contain oil valued at as much as $2.4 trillion.
Drilling would set off a cascade of revenue for contractors,
54,700 jobs across the U.S. and $176 billion in federal, state
and local tax revenue through 2057, according to a study Shell
commissioned from consulting company Northern Economics and the
University of Alaska Anchorage.  “You’re looking at decades of economic impact,” Kara
Moriarty, deputy director of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association,
said in an interview. Production in the Beaufort and Chukchi
seas “would be a tremendous boost,” she said.  Among the winners if the Obama administration gives the
required permits to The Hague-based Shell: Owners of the Trans
Alaska pipeline, including  BP Plc (BP/)  and Exxon Mobil Corp., which
say they need more oil to keep it running;  Statoil ASA (STL)  and
ConocoPhillips, which want to win approval to develop their own
federal leases in the Arctic; and Noble Corp., which will supply
a drilling vessel.  ‘A Big Opportunity’  “This is a big opportunity,” Slaiby told the audience at
the Sept. 8 meeting, showing them an animation of Shell’s spill-
response plans over a breakfast of eggs and bacon.  Shell’s spending since winning Arctic leases in federal
waters in 2005 is approaching $4 billion for drilling rights,
engineering, government-ordered studies and research, according
to the company. The Chukchi and Beaufort sea deposits may hold
25 billion barrels of oil, Shell says, citing government
estimates, for a value of $2.4 trillion based on the average
price of oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  this year.  Until now, the native village of Point Hope, which juts
into the  Chukchi Sea , and environmental groups staved off the
company by contending in court and in comments to government
agencies that drilling may disrupt a fragile land, putting at
risk the animals that provide the Inupiats with whale blubber
for fuel, pickled-flipper snacks and sealskin for the drums they
beat in time to traditional dances.  White House Meetings  The delay may end soon. In August, the company won Interior
Department approval for exploratory drilling in the  Beaufort Sea 
near the North Slope towns of Deadhorse and Kaktovik. The
Environmental Protection Agency issued air-quality permits on
Sept. 19 for a ship Shell plans to use for drilling.  Slaiby said Shell executives met three times with White
House officials, most recently on Sept. 20, to talk about Arctic
drilling.  The company expects Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  to
uphold the Chukchi Sea lease sale by Oct. 3, and  the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  to give the
go-ahead for the Chukchi exploration plan in December, Slaiby
said at the hotel breakfast in Anchorage.  Shell says it must decide by the end of October whether to
gamble that it will get all 35 permits needed and start lining
up about 18 vessels and 1,200 workers to drill the first
offshore wells in U.S. Arctic waters in July.  Alaska’s Republican Governor Sean Parnell has backed
Shell’s plans partly as the best bet to restore the flow in the
state’s largest oil pipeline to 1 million barrels a day within
10 years.  Trans Alaska Pipeline  Oil flowing through the 800-mile (1,287-kilometer) Trans
Alaska Pipeline shrank to about 570,000 barrels a day this year
from a record 2 million barrels in 1988, as output from onshore
tracts fell. The pipeline’s owners, including BP, Exxon and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , say that less petroleum in the pipes allows ice
to form, wax to build up and metal to corrode.  Shell, which said it expects Arctic offshore production to
start after 2020, would use the pipeline to deliver its crude
across the state to Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in
the U.S.  “Beaufort and Chukchi are critical for our long-term
future,” Tom Barrett, president of Trans Alaska operator
Alyeska Pipeline Service Co., said in an interview. Alyeska
employs more than 800 workers, according to its website.  Shell said it also plans to build a connector, half the
length of the Trans Alaska pipeline, across the North Slope to
bring Chukchi oil to the existing line.  Tax Revenue   “It will be hugely expensive, it’s in the billions,”
Slaiby said in an interview at his office in an Anchorage high-
rise with a view of the Chugach Mountains, blue and shrouded in
clouds.  Shell’s investments will bring $3.7 billion of tax revenue
to the North Slope Borough, which borders both seas, according
to the Northern Economics-University of Alaska analysis, which
was released in February. Alaska’s state government would gain
about $4.8 billion from property, corporate and income taxes
through 2057, and the federal government would collect $161.3
billion.  U.S. approval for Shell to drill 10 Arctic offshore wells
over the next two years may encourage more investment from
Statoil of Stavanger,  Norway , and Houston-based ConocoPhillips.
Those companies also purchased Chukchi Sea leases and aren’t as
far along in the process.  Statoil in Anchorage  “We’re following what’s happening with the other operators
closely, and we hope that Shell is successful in drilling next
year,” Lars Andreas Sunde, head of Statoil’s Anchorage office,
said in an interview. “It will of course be a positive to the
industry.”  Statoil opened its Anchorage office this year, as did  Noble
Corp. (NE) , owner and manager of the Discoverer rig that Shell plans
to use for the 2012 to 2013 drilling season. Shell rented the
Discoverer in January to use in  New Zealand  this year at a rate
of $155,000 a day, according to the  website  of Baar,
Switzerland-based Noble.  Pledging to benefit local residents, Shell hired North
Slope native corporations to write permit applications, engineer
oil-spill response and containment and dispose of waste once
exploration begins.  Waste-Management Contract  Among Shell’s Eskimo contractors is  Tikigaq Corp. , which
provides financial support for the Inupiat villagers in Point
Hope, the center of opposition to Shell’s plans.  Tikigaq’s waste-management contract with Shell, renewed
every year since 2007, is more profitable than services sold to
its main client, the U.S. Department of Defense, according to
the corporation’s Chief Operating Officer Troy Izatt.  Because exploration hasn’t begun, Tikigaq has allotted only
two workers to Shell, both based in Anchorage. One is a native
of Point Hope.  “Tikigaq Corp. and its board of directors support the
offshore development if it’s responsible,” Izatt said in an
interview at his office, where a fur-trimmed wooden tribal mask
hangs on the wall.“I always look forward to good news for
Alaska, what helps all Alaskans, including natives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Anchorage, Alaska, at
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  