-- 
Alphabet Energy’s Semiconductors Turn Smoke Into Power

-- B y   N i c k   L e i b e r
-- 
2011-09-29T22:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/alphabet-energy-s-semiconductors-turn-smoke-into-juice.html
     Sept. 29 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- When Thomas Edison
built the world’s first commercial power plant in Manhattan in
1882, he also sold the exhaust heat from its coal-fired boilers
to nearby buildings. Since then, scientists and engineers have
sought new technologies that would expand on Edison’s elegant
idea of using energy twice. The latest Holy Grail: perfecting
thermoelectrics, materials that can convert heat into
electricity.  Matt Scullin, 28, is trying to improve the technology which
in its current state isn’t very efficient, costs a lot, and is
difficult to manufacture on a large scale. The New York City
native, who earned his PhD in materials science from the
 University of California  at Berkeley, was part of a group of
researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory that in 2010
discovered a way to use silicon—which is cheap and easy to
handle—as an efficient thermoelectric material. His two-year-old
San Francisco startup, Alphabet Energy, has licensed the patent
and is working to commercialize silicon-based thermoelectric
generators for utilities, manufacturers, and other industries
that stand to benefit from reusing heat.  Scullin, who paid his way through grad school in part by
DJing at concerts and art shows and consulting for venture
capitalists at $500 an hour, says silicon is an ideal material to
work with because there’s already an infrastructure for it.
“We’repiggybacking off of the semiconductor industry to build a
scalable business,” he says. Rather than spending millions to
create a factory and supply chain from scratch, Alphabet Energy
initially will outsource production to semiconductor fabricators
so the 12-person team can focus on product development. Using
silicon “gives Alphabet Energy a good head start,” says Harry
Zervos, a technology analyst at research firm IDTechEx in
Cambridge,  England . Alphabet landed $12 million in  venture
capital  in September.  Alphabet’s technology is still being tested in the lab, but
Scullin, who is careful not to divulge too much for “competitive
reasons,” says he is planning pilot tests for next year. He says
the thermoelectric device looks something like a solar panel,
with the silicon material wedged between two pieces of steel. A
heat source warms one of the steel pieces, creating a temperature
differential that generates electrical voltage. Designed to be
easily manufactured in any size, from a few inches long to as
large as a flatbed truck, Scullin says the technology could be
useful in industries from biomedicine to kitchen equipment.  For now, Scullin is most interested in tapping exhaust gas.
Putting one of Alphabet’s thermoelectric generators in a
smoke-billowing chimney could produce enough electricity to
provide 10 percent to 100 percent of the facility’s power,
cutting its energy bills significantly, he says. Another
application: reusing vehicle exhaust to power a car’s electrical
system. and other automakers are developing their own
thermoelectric generators, but Zervos says they’re a long way
from being integrated into vehicles.  Arun Majumdar, now director of the U.S. Energy Dept.’s
Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, introduced Scullin to
waste heat technology while serving as his PhD adviser at
Berkeley in 2006. A visit over Christmas break in 2008 to the
cramped boiler room of  Manhattan ’s swanky Helmsley Building gave
Scullin a new idea for how to apply his materials science
background. Aware that massive amounts of excess steam were
regularly released into the sewers beneath Manhattan, he bet a
thermoelectric device could fit the space and cost relatively
little. He realized, however, that building managers, factory
owners, and power plant operators accustomed to removing heat
pollution from their facilities would adopt the technology to
harness excess energy only “if we build a product that’s
supremely easy to use” and “economical.”