-- 
Zain Group Fails to Sell Stake in Saudi Arabia Unit Amid Debt, Court Case

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-09-29T11:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/alwaleed-backed-kingdom-batelco-abandon-plan-to-acquire-25-of-saudi-zain.html
Zain Group, the Kuwaiti mobile-
phone company that didn’t complete a $12 billion deal with
Etisalat, failed to sell a stake in its Saudi unit, hurting
efforts to cut debt as it fights a court annulment of its board.  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , controlled by Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, and  Bahrain Telecom Co. (BATELCO)  said today they
won’t proceed with an offer to buy Zain’s 25 percent stake in
Zain  Saudi Arabia , the kingdom’s third-largest mobile-phone
company by market value, for $950 million.  Kingdom and Bahrain Telecom “concluded that the terms and
conditions as set out in its non-binding offer could not be met
to its satisfaction,” they said in separate statements. “This
follows a period of due diligence and discussions with Zain
Group and other stakeholders.”  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the United Arab Emirates
operator known as Etisalat, in March abandoned plans to buy a
majority stake in Zain, Kuwaiti’s biggest mobile-phone company.
The Kuwaiti operator sold most of its African assets last year
to Indian billionaire Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  for $9
billion.  “We don’t see other buyers for Zain Saudi now, especially
after the failure of two deals to sell it,” said Marise Ananian, a telecommunications analyst at Cairo-based investment
bank EFG Hermes. “Due to the court ruling and the Etisalat deal
failing, the stock’s been under pressure for the past months and
could come under more pressure now.”  Zain fell 3.1 percent to 940 fils in Kuwait City trading,
the biggest decline since May 15. There are 1,000 fils to the
dinar.  Board Decisions  A Kuwaiti lower court on Sept. 25 annulled all decisions
made by Zain’s board and declared it illegitimate, according to
attorney Rashed al-Radaan, a lawyer for former board member
Sheikh Khalifa Ali Al-Sabah. Sheikh Khalifa, part of the
country’s ruling family, sued based on a commerce ministry
report that said “violations” occurred at a general assembly
meeting in April.  Zain, also called Mobile Telecommunications Co., said the
ruling will have no impact on its commitments and that the
company will appeal.  Kingdom and Bahrain Telecom, known as Batelco, had agreed
in principle to pay $950 million in cash for the stake in Zain
Saudi. In addition, Zain Saudi would have paid $250 million of
debt to Zain Group after the transfer of ownership, Zain Group
said on March 16.  “When I first saw the offer, which didn’t guarantee loans
owed by Zain Saudi, it was clear to me that the deal was not
executable,” Sheikh Khalifa said by phone today. “The lenders
surely wouldn’t approve transferring the guarantees to the
purchasers.”  Narrowing Losses  Zain Saudi’s second-quarter loss narrowed as the company
added customers, it said in July. It concluded refinancing 2.25
billion riyals ($600 million) of debt in April.  “Zain made it clear they didn’t want to keep the
guarantees of Zain Saudi on their books after the deal takes
place,” EFG Hermes’s Ananian said.  Prior to the Etisalat bid, attempts by Zain shareholders to
sell a majority stake failed. In September 2009,  Kuwait ’s
Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-biggest shareholder after the
 Kuwait Investment Authority , announced the signing of a
preliminary agreement to sell a 46 percent stake in Zain, valued
at $13.7 billion, to a group led by  India ’s Vavasi Group and
Malaysian billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary. At the time, the
sellers and buyers pledged to complete the deal in four months.  The latest proposed sale was a key step in Zain’s efforts
to reduce debt, Ananian said. “We thought capital restructuring
could’ve taken place as soon as the deal went through,” she
said.  Zain’s stock, which has tumbled 38 percent this year
compared with a 16 percent drop in Kuwait’s benchmark stock
index, will “remain under pressure,” said Chandresh Bhatt,
vice president for research at Global Investment House KSCC.
“The market has taken this news negatively because this was a
much-needed deal for Zain Group,” Bhatt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  