-- 
Amazon Workers Rediscover the Grapes of Wrath: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/amazon-workers-rediscover-the-hard-lessons-of-grapes-of-wrath-ezra-klein.html
Want to learn about the plight of
unemployed workers during the Great Depression? Head to
Amazon.com and order John Steinbeck’s Depression-era epic, “The
Grapes of Wrath.” Want to learn about the plight of workers
during our own Lesser Depression? Head over to Amazon’s
warehouse in Lehigh,  Pennsylvania , and watch them prepare your
book for shipping.  What the book will give you is perhaps the most penetrating
lecture on labor markets in the American canon. It comes as the
Joad family has just completed a long, awful trip from the
desiccated fields of  Oklahoma  to the rumored paradise of
 California . Their journey was propelled by an orange handbill
that Pa Joad kept folded in his pocket: “Pea Pickers Wanted in
California. Good Wages All Season. 800 Pickers Wanted.” It
seemed to be a ticket to a better life.  When the family arrives in California, there’s no work.
Just tents and hungry, hopeless people. A young man leaving the
Hooverville they’ve just joined laughs ruefully at them: “They
say they’s three hunderd thousan’ us folks here, an’ I bet ever
dam’ fam’ly seen them han’bills.”  “If they don’ need folks,” asks Tom Joad, “what’d they
go to the trouble puttin’ them things out for?”  “Look,” the young man says, “s’pose you got a job an’
work, an’ there’s just one fella wants the job. You got to pay
im what he asts. But s’pose they’s a hunderd men. S’pose they’s
a hunderd men wants that job. S’pose them men got kids, an’ them
kids is hungry. S’pose a lousy dime’ll buy a box of mush for
them kids. S’pose a nickel will buy at leas’ somepin for them
kids. An’ you got a hunderd men. Jus’ offer ‘em a nickel -- why
they’ll kill each other fightin’ for that nickel.”  Weak Labor  Economists would bloodlessly describe this arrangement
between workers and employers as “an equilibrium.” In a
tighter labor market, when there aren’t “a hunderd” men
competing for each job, a worker’s threat to quit gives her
significant power over the employer. In a weak labor market,
when there are multiple workers aspiring for any one job,
unskilled laborers have very little power. In a depressed
economy, the equilibrium between what workers can demand and
what employers will pay can be downright horrifying. “The
Grapes of Wrath” is about that imbalance in an era when it
tilted sharply toward employers.  Knowledge Economy   It’s easy, however, to write that lesson off -- to assume
it’s an artifact of an early 20th century agrarian economy, the
product of a sympathetic novelist’s imagination, immaterial to
the 21st century’s knowledge economy. Which is why it’s worth
considering the process that gets “The Grapes of Wrath” to
your door.  In a remarkable  article  published in Allentown,
Pennsylvania’s Morning Call newspaper, reporter Spencer Soper
interviewed more than 20 current and former employees of
Amazon’s Lehigh warehouse to paint a picture of life in the
Lesser Depression that looks more like “The Grapes of Wrath”
than anything we expect to see in 21st century America.  The warehouse, Soper reported, is brutally hot in summer.
In a nod to modernity, “computers monitored the heat index in
the building and Amazon employees received notification about
the heat index by email.” One day, the index “exceeded 110
degrees on the third floor.” A local emergency room doctor
treated so many warehouse employees for heat exhaustion this
summer that he called federal regulators to report an unsafe
work environment. A security guard called the  Occupational
Safety and Health Administration  after seeing two pregnant women
taken to nurses. Some workers would break out into a sarcastic
chant: “End slavery at Amazon!”  Ambulances on Call  There were occasions in June and July, Soper reported, when
“Amazon paid Cetronia Ambulance Corps to have ambulances and
paramedics stationed at its two adjacent warehouses.” The
company refused to cool the warehouse by opening the garage
doors because managers feared it would lead to theft.  Amazon told the Morning Call that it had installed a
cooling system at the warehouse, but the company has not
responded to specific allegations in the article and didn’t
return my call for comment.  It issued a statement to the Morning Call attributed to
Vickie Mortimer, general manager at the company’s Upper Macungie
warehouse:  “The safety and welfare of our employees is our No. 1
priority at Amazon, and as the general manager, I take that
responsibility seriously,” Mortimer said. “We go to great
lengths to ensure a safe work environment, with activities that
include free water, snacks, extra fans and cooled air during the
summer. I am grateful to work with such a fantastic group of
employees from our community, and we partner with them every day
to make sure our facility is a great place to work.”  Scarce Jobs  In a more robust economy, Amazon would have to treat its
employees better or they would simply leave to pursue other
opportunities. “But with job openings scarce, Amazon and
Integrity Staffing Solutions, the temporary employment firm that
is hiring workers for Amazon, have found eager applicants in the
swollen ranks of the unemployed,” Soper reported.  Right now, there are about five unemployed Americans for
every open job. In many regions and industries, that ratio is
much higher, especially among unskilled workers. It might not be
100-to-1, but it’s close enough to ensure that the one who does
get the job has little power. Orange handbills might have been
replaced by e-mails and Monster.com, but the Joads would surely
recognize the men and women competing to work in that hundred-
degree heat, climbing over one another for the chance to support
their kids.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  