-- 
Amazon Bargain Tablet to Grow Market Without Being ‘IPad Killer’

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/amazon-bargain-tablet-to-grow-market-without-being-ipad-killer-.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire is
poised to help Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos lure bargain
tablet-computer shoppers. It’s unlikely to dislodge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
from its perch at the top of the market.  The Kindle’s $199 price, at less than half the cost of
Apple’s most affordable iPad tablet, holds appeal for consumers
who want a low-priced machine for reading books and watching
movies, said Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group. Consumers who want a bigger screen or the ability to chat
over video will probably stay loyal to Apple, Leung said.  Bezos may ship as many as 4 million units of the Kindle
Fire this year, in part by undercutting Apple, said Brian Blair,
an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in  New York . Still, Amazon
will need to release a larger version with a faster processor to
siphon share from the iPad, which according to EMarketer Inc.
had 85 percent of the market at the end of 2010.  “I don’t see this as an iPad killer,” said Leung, who is
based in  San Francisco . The Kindle Fire “caters to a much
lower-end consumer. A bigger screen and a more powerful
processor over time -- those are the two main things that will
enable them to get there.”  The Kindle Fire will have a 7-inch display, smaller than
Apple’s iPad, the company said at an event in New York
yesterday. The device will run on Google Inc.’s Android software
and have a dual-core processor, Seattle-based Amazon said. The
Kindle Fire offers Wi-Fi connectivity and comes with a 30-day
free trial of Amazon Prime, the company’s $79-a-year membership
service that includes streaming video and free two-day shipping.  Tablet Market Growth  Amazon is angling to grab a piece of a market that
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  predicts
will grow 51 percent a year through 2015. The company’s shares
rose yesterday on optimism that the Kindle Fire will avoid the
fate that befell tablets from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which failed to gain traction with consumers.  Amazon gained $5.50, or 2.5 percent, to $229.71 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has risen 28 percent this year.  The company’s next device must offer more built-in
features, such as video chat, an upgrade to the dual-core
processor and the option of a bigger screen, said Wedge
Partners’ Blair. The Kindle Fire also lacks a microphone or a
connection to a 3G wireless network.  Amazon will have to beef up its application store after the
company said one offered by Google won’t be available, said
 Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco.  IPad’s Advantage  “The iPad looks a little more elegant to the eye,”
Sebastian said. “The iPad’s more powerful, and when you
restrict it to Amazon’s Android app market, you’re missing a
lot.”  Apple leads the market for mobile applications, the
downloadable software that lets users access games, tools and
other information. It boasts more than 425,000 -- more than
100,000 of them custom-designed for the iPad.  While the new Kindle will add to Amazon’s sales, estimated
by analysts to rise 32 percent to $64.6 billion in 2012, the
company may disappoint if the tablet doesn’t bring in revenue
quickly, Steve Weinstein, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a note this week.  Sales of Amazon’s electronic books, movies and music on the
device may help make up for the narrower profit margins that are
likely to result from the low price, Blair said. He expects
Amazon to sell out of the device this year.  ‘Powerful’ Kindle Fire  “I don’t think it’s a question of stealing customers
yet,” Blair said. “But it’s an iTunes-like offering of
content, and that’s powerful. The number of people who really
want the front-facing camera are going to be small relative to
the people who want to pay $199 for this thing.”  Amazon may spend about $250 on each Kindle Fire, for a loss
of more than $50 per device,  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos., said in a research report yesterday. That compares
with a $350 cost of production for Apple’s tablet, giving the
Cupertino, California-based company a profit of $149 per unit.  Apple started selling the original iPad in April 2010, and
introduced the iPad 2 in March of this year. The touch-screen
device, which has a 9.7-inch diagonal display, is already
Apple’s biggest source of revenue after the iPhone. The company
shipped 9.25 million  iPads  in the quarter that ended June 25.  Two other tablets have failed to make a dent in Apple’s
dominance. Research In Motion’s PlayBook, introduced in the
second quarter, shipped 200,000 units, less than half of what
analysts predicted. Hewlett-Packard, meanwhile, discontinued its
TouchPad in August -- only about a month after its debut.  ‘Bad for Nook’  Amazon’s Kindle Fire could also take share from  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s  Nook Color  electronic reader, which sells for $50
more and lets users buy and read digital books, Blair said.
Barnes & Noble, based in New York, fell 91 cents, or 6.9
percent, to $12.30 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.  “This is going to have more content outside of just books,
and overall better content at a better price point,” he said.
“This is bad for Nook sales.”  The Kindle Fire will expand the tablet market, rather than
take customers from Apple, said  Peter Misek , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  That’s because Amazon has created a new part of the market
by targeting bargain hunters, said Lance Strate, a professor of
communication and media studies at  Fordham University  in New
York.  “With the other Android products, what we get is kind of a
cheap imitation of the iPad,” Strate said. “What Amazon has is
something is different, with a separate set of advantages and
disadvantages. You’re not going to beat Apple at its own game,
but Amazon can create its own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  