-- 
AMD Falls After Supplier Disruption Crimps Sales Forecast

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-29T20:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/amd-falls-on-reduced-sales-forecast-after-manufacturing-glitch.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  shares
plunged 14 percent after the second-largest maker of processors
for personal computers cut its forecasts for third-quarter sales
and profitability, citing manufacturing disruption.  Sales in the period ending Oct. 1 will rise 4 percent to 6
percent from the previous quarter, the Sunnyvale, California-
based company said in a statement late yesterday. That compares
with an earlier prediction for growth of about 10 percent.  Globalfoundries Inc., a spinoff of AMD’s manufacturing
operations that now supplies the company with chips, is having
difficulties with production at its plant in Dresden,  Germany .
That has caused a shortfall of AMD’s latest processors, the
company said. That's a setback as AMD rolls out its new Llano
chip for laptops, which has drawn steady demand, said
Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates.  “They’re not cutting because of demand, but are cutting
because of execution problems,” said Mosesmann, who is based in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “The big question is how far along are
they at fixing this problem.”  AMD dropped 84 cents to $5.31 at 4 p.m. on the New York
Stock Exchange. The shares have declined 35 percent this year.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the costs of production, will be 44 percent to 45
percent for the quarter, AMD said. The company had previously
projected gross margin of 47 percent.  ‘Seeing Progress’  Globalfoundries is “throwing substantial resources at
improving yields,” said  Drew Prairie , an AMD spokesman. “We’re
seeing progress.”  In the second quarter, AMD had sales of $1.57 billion. A
revenue increase of 4 percent to 6 percent from that period
would equal sales of about $1.64 billion to $1.67 billion.
Analysts on average estimated AMD’s third-quarter sales would
rise to $1.72 billion, according to Bloomberg data. Revenue in
the year-earlier third quarter was $1.62 billion.  Other chipmakers have slashed forecasts in recent weeks,
citing weak demand. Unlike those companies, AMD can’t supply
enough of the new Llano chips, according to Raymond James
analyst Mosesmann.  Earlier this week, Freescale Semiconductor Holdings said
its third-quarter sales won’t meet earlier projections.
Freescale followed rivals Texas Instruments Inc. and Intersil
Corp. in saying that orders for their products are slowing.  In addition to being unable to supply enough Llano chips --
a combination processor and graphics chip for PCs -- AMD said it
wasn’t able to ship its new server chip, called Interlagos, as
early as planned.  In April, AMD said it changed its supply agreement with
Globalfoundries to protect it against production delays. Under
the revised agreement, AMD only pays for functioning chips
delivered, rather than total production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 