-- 
Man Accused of Plotting to Bomb U.S. Capitol, Pentagon Indicted in Boston

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-09-29T19:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/man-accused-of-plotting-to-bomb-capitol-pentagon-indicted-in-boston.html
A  Massachusetts  man accused of
planning to bomb the U.S. Capitol and the Pentagon in a
terrorist attack using remote-controlled planes filled with
plastic explosives was indicted by a grand jury in Boston.  Rezwan Ferdaus, 26, a Northeastern University graduate with
a bachelor’s degree in physics, began in January to design and
construct detonation components for the improvised explosive
devices using mobile phones, according to an indictment released
today by the U.S. Attorney’s office.  The charges include attempting to damage and destroy a
federal building and national defense premises, attempting to
provide material support to terrorists and a designated foreign
terrorist organization and receipt of explosive materials and
nonregistered firearms.  “Ferdaus extensively planned and took substantial steps to
bomb the United States Pentagon and United States Capitol
Building,” according to the indictment.  Catherine Byrne, a lawyer in the Federal Public Defender’s
office in  Boston  who is representing Ferdaus, didn’t return
phone messages seeking comment on the indictment.  Ferdaus supplied 12 mobile phones modified to act as
switches for the explosives to FBI undercover employees who he
thought were working for al-Qaeda, according to the indictment.  The defendant researched remote control aircraft in a New
York Internet café, according to the indictment. In April, he
told the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  undercover agents he
planned to fly two of the aircraft into the Pentagon and one
into the Capitol and asked them for funding.  In May, he traveled to  Washington  for surveillance and to
take photographs of the targets and the proposed launch site,
East Potomac Park, prosecutors said in the indictment. In June,
he rented a storage facility in Framingham, Massachusetts.  Detonation Devices  The FBI agents, at a June meeting, told Ferdaus, falsely,
that the first detonation devices that he had delivered to them
had been used to kill three U.S. soldiers in  Iraq , prosecutors
said.  “That was exactly what I wanted,” he told the undercover
agents, according to the indictment.  Over a period of months, Ferdaus asked the agents to supply
him with explosives and automatic weapons, prosecutors said.
Using the alias Dave Winfield, he ordered remote control
aircraft from a distributor in  Florida .  “I want to totally destroy and take out the enemy and kill
as many kafir as possible,” Ferdaus allegedly told the
undercover agents in August, using the Arabic term for
nonbelievers. “Imagine if our brothers could set off 20 phones
at a time.”  In September, the FBI agents delivered to Ferdaus what he
believed to be the 25 pounds of C-4 plastic explosives he
sought, according to the indictment. He also received three
grenades and six AK-47 assault rifles. After he locked the
weapons in his storage unit, he was arrested yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Ferdaus, 11-10331, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  