-- 
Hana Jumps on Speculation KEB Purchase to Be Completed Soon

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-09-29T02:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/hana-jumps-on-speculation-keb-purchase-to-be-completed-soon-1-.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  jumped as
much as 11 percent in Seoul trading on speculation its
acquisition of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  will be completed soon.  Hana, whose purchase of KEB from  Lone Star Funds  has been
pending since November, climbed to 36,150 won and traded at
34,450 won as of 11:02 a.m. on the Korea Exchange. The benchmark
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 0.9 percent.  South Korea ’s financial regulator plans to order Lone Star
to sell its KEB stake “without any strings attached” once the
nation’s court delivers its verdict in the stock-manipulation
retrial of the U.S. fund’s former local chief, DongA Ilbo
reported today. Prolonged legal proceedings have been preventing
regulators from approving Hana’s KEB stake purchase.  “Investors appear to be betting that Hana’s purchase will
get the green light soon,” Andy Lee, a Seoul-based analyst with
Taurus Investment & Securities Co., said by phone today. “The
completion, if happens, will be good for Hana’s share price.”  South Korea will finalize the sale of KEB to Hana after a
court decision in  Lone Star ’s case is made, Financial Services
Commission ChairmanKim Seok Dong told reporters today. Further
legal review will follow after the court decision, Kim said.  Prosecutors earlier this month asked the court to sentence
Lone Star Funds’ former local chief Paul Yoo to 10 years in
prison. The  Seoul High Court  is scheduled to make a ruling in
the case on Oct. 6.  Lone Star in July agreed to extend a deadline to close the
transaction until Nov. 30. Under the agreement, Hana is
purchasing a 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange from Lone Star.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  