-- 
Hang Lung, CapitaMalls Plan Chinese Shopping Centers to Tap Luxury Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T02:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/hang-lung-capitamalls-plan-chinese-shopping-centers-to-tap-luxury-market.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  and
 CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA)  have announced plans to build new shopping
malls in China, underscoring their confidence in the country’s
growing luxury consumer market.  Hang Lung, the  Hong Kong  developer that’s building high-end
shopping centers in other parts of China, and its parent bought
two sites in Kunming in the southwest for 3.5 billion yuan ($547
million), it said in a stock exchange filing yesterday.
Singapore-based CapitaMalls said today it plans to trade its
shares in Hong Kong, a day after announcing a venture to invest
6.7 billion yuan in a mall and office development in Suzhou, a
city west of Shanghai.  Luxury-products makers such as Prada SpA and LVMH Moe
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA are expanding in  China , where the
number of millionaire households jumped 31 percent to 1.11
million in 2010 from a year earlier, according to a Boston
Consulting Group survey. Demand for retail space helped drive a
42 percent surge in commercial real estate investments in the
country last year, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “There are a lot of opportunities in retail property in
China,” said Sherman Yeung, Beijing-based director of retail
services for North China at Colliers International. “The
population is big and the country needs domestic consumption to
boost the economy.”  Hang Lung fell 1.4 percent to HK$24.05 as of 10:25 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading, while its parent Hang Lung Group gained 1.8
percent to HK$40.10. CapitaMalls climbed 1.7 percent to S$1.22
in  Singapore , the first advance in three days.  Biggest Luxury Spenders  Chinese consumers will be the world’s largest luxury
spenders by next year, according to an HSBC Holdings Plc report
last month. The nation’s retail sales climbed 17 percent in
August from a year earlier, after increasing 17.2 percent the
previous month, the statistics bureau said earlier this month.  Foreign developers may have an advantage in acquiring
commercial projects over local rivals, who are “short of
capital,” Yeung said.  Chinese developers are facing an “increasingly severe”
credit outlook that may force them to cut prices and borrow on
higher  interest rates ,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 27
report. Fewer than half of the 70 cities monitored by the
government in August posted month-on-month gains in  home prices 
for the first time, according to Samsung Securities Co.  Mall Investment  Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s third-largest builder by value, is
investing as much as HK$50 billion ($6.4 billion) building
shopping malls in cities including Shenyang, Wuxi, Tianjin and
Dalian that are scheduled for completion over the next four
years. Chairman Ronnie Chan said in August the company is
“financially capable” of doubling that investment to tap the
country’s growing luxury spending.  The builder won the bid for the Kunming land, which has a
maximum floor area of 401,383 square meters (4.3 million square
feet) and will be used for “commercial and financial
development,” the company said. They are the first sites Hang
Lung has bought in the nation since May 2009.  “If you have to be exposed to the market at this point,
Hang Lung would still make a good choice,” said Kevin Gin, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. “They have one
of the best, if not the best, property management team in North
Asia with a strong track record.”  The developer, which had about HK$27 billion in cash at the
end of June, hasn’t bought any land in Hong Kong in at least 10
years. The company in August opened a 3.5 billion yuan shopping
mall in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan, its fourth outside of
Hong Kong.  Overtaking Hong Kong  Hang Lung’s rental income from China will “almost
certainly” overtake that of Hong Kong next year, Chan said in
August. The company is targeting Chinese cities with per-capita
income of about 40,000 yuan for future projects, he said.
Kunming is the capital and largest city of Yunnan province.  CapitaMalls, a unit of  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest developer, will include a retail mall and two office
towers in its Suzhou project, which will be jointly owned by
Suzhou Industrial Park Jinji Lake Urban Development, the master
developer of the city’s business district.  CapitaMalls also said in a statement to the Hong Kong
exchange today it plans to start trading its shares in the city
on Oct. 18 after applying for a secondary listing. The stock
started trading in Singapore two years ago.  China makes up 44 percent of CapitaMalls’ S$6.19 billion
($4.8 billion) of assets, its biggest market.  The company said it picked Suzhou for its prospects as
China’s fifth-largest city by gross domestic product and
proximity to  Shanghai  via a 30-minute train ride. CapitaMalls,
which developed ION Orchard in Singapore, has 55 shopping retail
properties in China, including the Raffles City developments in
Beijing and Shanghai.  --Kelvin Wong, Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  