-- 
Marilyn Monroe, George Harrison Featured at N.Y. Film Festival

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/marilyn-monroe-george-harrison-featured-at-n-y-film-festival-preview.html
Michelle Williams  plays  Marilyn Monroe ,  Roman Polanski  adapts a celebrated play and  Martin Scorsese  directs a documentary about George Harrison at the 49th
 New York Film Festival .  The festival opens tomorrow night with Polanski’s
“Carnage,” based on the Tony Award-winning drama “God of
Carnage” about two couples who clash after their sons are
involved in a schoolyard fight.  The film stars  Kate Winslet , Jodie Foster, John C. Reilly
and Christoph Waltz. It is Polanski’s first feature at the
festival since the inaugural event in 1963, when he presented
his debut “Knife in the Water.”  “My Week With Marilyn” chronicles tensions on the set
between Monroe and Laurence Olivier during the making of his
1957 romantic comedy “The Prince and the Showgirl.” Scorsese’s
“ George Harrison : Living in the Material World” provides an
in-depth look at the most private member of the Beatles.  Other notable films include Pedro Almodovar’s “The Skin I
Live In,” the creepy story of a plastic surgeon who
experiments with synthetic skin; and David Cronenberg’s “A
Dangerous Method,” a drama about how the treatment of a
neurotic patient (Keira Knightly) led to the split between
psychoanalysis pioneers Sigmund Freud (Viggo Mortensen) and Carl Jung ( Michael Fassbender ).  The 17-day festival closes Oct. 16 with “The
Descendants,” starring George Clooney as a Hawaiian land baron
who must care for his two young daughters after his wife is
seriously injured in a boating accident. It’s the first feature
Alexander Payne has directed since his surprise hit “Sideways”
in 2004.  End of World  Twenty-seven features will be shown at the festival, which
is run by the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Among the
prominent entries:  “Melancholia” -- Provocateur Lars von Trier contemplates
the end of the world in this drama about depression, two sisters
and a planet hurtling toward Earth. Starring Kirsten Dunst and
Charlotte Gainsbourg.  “Pina” -- Wim Wenders’s musical tribute to legendary
choreographer Pina Bausch.  “A Separation” -- Winner of the top prize at the Berlin
Film Festival, this Iranian drama is about an estranged couple
whose relationship is further strained by the care of the
husband’s dementia-stricken father.  “Shame” -- British artist/director Steve McQueen explores
sex addiction in the follow-up to his impressive debut,
“Hunger.” Fassbender plays a  New York  Casanova who is shaken
up when his disturbed sister ( Carey Mulligan ) moves in with him.  “The Artist” -- An homage to the golden age of silent
pictures, the story revolves around a dashing silent-movie star
(Jean Dujardin) and a stunning young actress (Berenice Bejo)
whose careers head in opposite directions as talkies loom.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 