-- 
Tate & Lyle Maintains Forecast for ‘Profitable’ Annual Growth

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-29T06:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/tate-lyle-maintains-forecast-for-profitable-annual-growth.html
Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , the maker of low-
calorie sweetener Splenda, maintained its forecast for a year of
“profitable growth” after fiscal first-half sales of U.S. corn
sweeteners and sucralose products jumped.  Tate & Lyle, which relies on specialty food ingredients for
more than 50 percent of operating profit, said today that volume
growth was “particularly strong” in sucralose at lower selling
prices, although demand is expected to return to “more normal
levels” during the second half.  U.S. demand for corn sweeteners, used to make processed
foods, has been “strong” in the six months ending tomorrow,
the London-based company said in a statement. Profitability slid
in  Europe , although the drag from more expensive corn was offset
by higher volumes. Citric-acid sales will be “somewhat lower”
in the first half.  “The encouraging start to the financial year has continued
during the second quarter, with solid demand within a number of
our markets in both specialty food ingredients and bulk
ingredients, assisted by strong co-product returns,” Chief
Executive Officer Javed Ahmed said in the statement.  Income generated from so-called co-products, which include
corn oil and animal feed, will be about double the year-earlier
figure, the company said. Co-products contributed 16 million
pounds ($25 million) in additional income in the last full
fiscal year, it said. Tate & Lyle’s group forecast excludes the
products as well as the effects of currency fluctuations.  Tate & Lyle, under Ahmed’s leadership, has sold its sugar
interests in the European Union and  Vietnam  and its molasses
business to concentrate on more profitable units including
specialty food ingredients and bulk ingredients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  