-- 
ATP Says New Gulf of Mexico Oil Wells to Stave Off Default

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-09-29T21:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/atp-says-new-gulf-of-mexico-oil-wells-to-stave-off-default.html
ATP Oil & Gas, one of the first oil
explorers allowed to resume drilling in the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico 
after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, expects to pump enough oil
from new wells during the next three years to avoid defaulting
on $1.5 billion in debt.  Moody’s Investors Service this week said ATP shows a “high
likelihood” it may have to restructure its debt because its
cash flow and asset base are insufficient to cover notes
maturing in 2015. The company’s $1.79 billion in net debt
exceeds that of 97 percent of Houston-based ATP’s U.S. peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ATP expects to begin production from new wells at its
Telemark field this year, followed by additional output at the
Clipper and Gomez projects in 2012, Entrada in 2013 and Cheviot
a year later, said Albert L. Reese, ATP’s chief financial
officer. All of those fields are in the Gulf of  Mexico , except
Cheviot, which is in the U.K.  “All of that is before the bonds come due in 2015, so I
don’t know what Moody’s is talking about,” Reese said today in
a telephone interview. “I can’t fight rumors or reports, all I
can do is continue to deliver on the promises we’ve made. Our
expectation is that everything is going to be fine.”  An exploration well off the coast of  Israel  that will be
drilled next year has the potential to double the company’s
reserves, Reese said. ATP will be operator of the project and
owns a 40 percent stake, he said.  ATP shares fell 61 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $8.54 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
shed 15 percent of its value in the past two days.  ATP borrowed $2.1 billion in 2010, the biggest annual total
in company history, at a time when the Gulf of Mexico was shut
to exploratory drilling for most of the year and the company’s
reserves fell 6.5 percent.  The company had $337.6 million in losses in 2010 and is
expected to lose another $246.5 million this year, according to
the average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 