-- 
Australia Revenue Less Than Expected as Swan Sees Challenge

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-29T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/australia-revenue-less-than-expected-as-swan-sees-challenge.html
Australia ’s fiscal revenue for the
year through June fell short of the government’s estimates by
about A$2 billion ($2 billion) after floods and an appreciating
currency undermined tax receipts.  “We’ve seen recent turbulence in the global economy which
obviously makes it more difficult to return to surplus, but we
remain determined to do so in 2012-13,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said in a statement ahead of the government’s release today of
the final 2010-11 budget figures.  The revenue shortfall may stoke criticism of Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s fiscal management by the opposition Liberal-
National coalition, which leads her  Labor party  in opinion polls.
Gillard has pledged to return the budget to surplus in 2013, an
election year.  Elevated American unemployment,  Europe ’s failure to contain
a debt crisis and slowing Chinese demand for commodities may
contribute to a less robust rebound in Australia’s economy next
year. The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered its
forecast for the nation’s increase in gross domestic product in
2012 to 3.3 percent, from 3.5 percent in early August.  Myer Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest department-store
chain, sees consumer confidence at a three-decade low and
doesn’t expect any improvement in at least six months, Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said in an interview this week.  Australia’s economy contracted 0.9 percent in the first
quarter this year from the prior quarter, according to
government figures. GDP rose 1.2 percent in the second quarter,
the most in four years, as the economy began rebounded from
Queensland flooding.  Opposition Criticism  “The Labor Government has failed to deliver a single  budget
surplus  since coming to office in 2007,” opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said in a May statement on his website. “In fact, Labor
hasn’t even delivered a surplus in the past 21 years.”  Swan said in his statement that “our public finances remain
among the strongest in the developed world with our net debt
position less than a tenth of the major advanced economies.”  In its May 10 fiscal blueprint, Gillard’s government said
it would end 23 years of spending growth to ease inflationary
pressures. Consumer prices have climbed amid the biggest mining
boom in Australian history.  “The final budget outcome will reflect the A$130 billion
hit to government revenues caused by the global recession, much
of which occurred in 2010-11, as well as recent natural
disasters and the high dollar,” Swan said.  In the May budget, the government forecast the underlying
cash deficit would narrow to A$22.6 billion in the 12 months
through June 2012, less than half the A$49.4 billion gap a year
earlier. The government said it planned A$22.2 billion in
savings over the next four years, which it projects will help
deliver a A$3.5 billion surplus in 2012-13.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  