-- 
Bank Regulators Should Be ‘More Radical,’ FSA’s Turner Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-29T16:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/bank-regulators-should-be-more-radical-fsa-s-turner-says.html
Regulators may need to use
unconventional policy tools to ensure banks don’t cause another
credit boom and financial crisis, a top U.K banking regulator
said today.  Adair Turner , chairman of Britain’s Financial Services
Authority, said in a speech to students that supervisors “may
need to be still more radical” in regulating banks’ trading of
complex financial products. Turner also called for minimum
ratios for measuring risk, known as risk weights, to be applied
globally as part of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
rules on bank reserves.  “We need to challenge the idea that financial innovation
is axiomatically beneficial in a social as well as private
opportunity sense,” Turner said. “Much of it focuses on the
zero-sum activity of  tax avoidance .”  European policy makers have released a series of rules
regulating banks’ trading of derivatives, short-selling and
bonuses in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008 and the financial crisis, the worst since the Great
Depression, that followed.  The Basel Committee, a group comprised of global regulators
and central banks, has agreed on measures including a 2.5
percent capital surcharge on large banks and tougher liquidity
rules.  Turner said regulators need to be wary of the so-called
shadow banking system and they should “challenge the idea that
the bigger the financial system is the better.”  The shadow-banking system, which includes structured
investment vehicles used to move transactions off companies’
balance sheets, had liabilities of about $16 trillion in the
first quarter of 2010, according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  