-- 
Bernanke Says High U.S. Unemployment Poses ‘National Crisis’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/bernanke-says-u-s-facing-national-crisis-as-high-unemployment-persists.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. is facing a crisis with a jobless rate at
or above 9 percent since April 2009, and that fiscal discipline
would help spur the economic recovery.  “This unemployment situation we have, the jobs situation,
is really a national crisis,” Bernanke said in response to
questions after a speech yesterday in Cleveland. “We’ve had
close to 10 percent unemployment now for a number of years and,
of the people who are unemployed, about 45 percent have been
unemployed for six months or more. This is unheard of.”  The chairman is contending with the most opposition on the
 Federal Open Market Committee  in almost 19 years, with three
policy makers opposing the central bank’s decision last week to
push down longer-term interest rates. Fed regional bank
presidents  Thomas Hoenig  of Kansas City and  Richard Fisher  of
Dallas spoke out against the plan this week, while  Eric Rosengren  of Boston backed it and  Dennis Lockhart  of Atlanta
said the move will probably have a “modest” effect.  The speech was Bernanke’s first since the Fed announced on
Sept. 21 that it would replace $400 billion of short-term debt
in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to
further reduce borrowing costs and strengthen the flagging
economy. U.S. growth has stalled even as the Fed purchased $2.3
trillion in assets in two rounds of quantitative easing and held
interest rates near zero since December 2008.  “Monetary policy is not a panacea,” Bernanke said.
“There are certainly some areas where other policy makers could
contribute,” and “strong housing policies to help the housing
markets recover would certainly be useful.”  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 2.1 percent
yesterday to 1,151.06 in New York trading, while yields on 10-
year Treasury notes rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 1.97 percent.  The U.S. should learn from the success of many emerging
market economies and support strong economic growth through
“disciplined fiscal policies,” Bernanke said in his speech
yesterday. He didn’t address the outlook for the  U.S. economy  or
 monetary policy  in his remarks on “Lessons from Emerging Market
Economies on the Sources of Sustained Growth.”  The experience of emerging markets shows “the need to
encourage private capital formation while undertaking necessary
public investments,” Bernanke said. He also cited open trade,
investment in education, technological advances and a regulatory
framework that “encourages entrepreneurship and innovation
while maintaining financial stability.”  Set of Guidelines  Bernanke’s speech reviewed the recommendations of John Williamson, an economist and senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, a set of guidelines known
as the Washington Consensus.  During the U.S. recession from December 2007 to June 2009,
the BRIC nations of  Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China  became the
engines of the global economy, with Chinese gross domestic
product expanding 7.9 percent even as the U.S. was still
contracting.  While emerging countries produced about 85 percent of
global economic growth since then, China, India and Brazil are
slowing after they lifted  interest rates  to curb inflation
following at least $870 billion of fiscal stimulus during the
financial crisis.  “Over time, as the emerging market countries become
wealthier and technologically more sophisticated, they will
gradually lose the advantages of starting from behind,”
Bernanke said.  Both emerging markets and advanced economies will have to
“do their part” to reduce global imbalances, Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  