-- 
Biotech Investors Bow Out After Approvals as Sales Hurdles Grow

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-29T20:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/biotech-investors-bow-out-after-approvals-as-sales-hurdles-grow.html
When  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) ’s
lupus drug, Benlysta, won regulatory approval in March as the
first treatment for the disease in more than 50 years, the
company estimated the product may be worth $2.5 billion a year.  Since then, the Rockville, Maryland-based company’s stock
has plunged 47 percent in  Nasdaq  Stock Market trading. The drop
mirrors declines for other biotechnology companies with drug
approvals the last two years and spotlights a trend that may
slow the pace of acquisitions and decrease returns for potential
buyers, analysts and industry officials said.  “The bull thesis a couple of years ago was that these
stocks are going up before approval, and will go up after
approval,” said  Eric Schmidt , a New York-based analyst with
Cowen & Co., in telephone interview. Now, “most stocks are down
20, 30, 40, and in some cases, 50 percent or more since their
drugs were approved.”  The shares of Seattle-based  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ;  Savient
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT)  of East Brunswick,  New Jersey ; and
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  all
fell this year after their products were approved for sale.  The decline is driven by the idea that new biotechnology
products are so expensive and complex it can take years for
sales to grow as insurers and the U.S. government seek to cut
medical costs and regulators tighten safety checks, said  Michael Yee  of  RBC Capital Markets .  ‘Hurdles’ at the Start  Investors increasingly “fear the risks of commercial
disappointment,” Yee, RBC’s director of biotechnology equity
research in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview.
“That’s a reflection of underappreciated commercial logistical
issues with the launch, as well reimbursement hurdles at the
start, and physician comfort in the first few months.”  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration increased scrutiny of
potential safety hazards after criticism from consumer groups
and Congress for taking years to identify heart risks tied to
drugs such as Merck & Co.’s painkiller Vioxx and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) ’s diabetes pill Avandia.  In many cases, that has led to an insistence on so-called
risk management studies that continue for years after the
product is approved, and watch for dangerous side effects that
may arise as the drug is used by more and more people. When
Human Genome’s Benlysta was approved, the FDA mandated further
safety studies be done.  Market Challenges  “Almost any drug that comes to market has its own
particular challenges,” said Ron Cohen, chief executive officer
of Hawthorne, New York-based  Acorda Therapeutics Inc. (ACOR) , in a
telephone interview. Acorda’s stock has fallen 28 percent since
Jan. 22, 2010, when its pill to improve walking in multiple
sclerosis patients was cleared in the U.S. “Just getting
approval, and even reimbursement, is not necessarily sufficient
anymore to guarantee the drug will be a major success.”  After hitting the market in March, sales of Acorda’s Ampyra
reached $133.1 million in 2010 and the company has estimated
2011 revenue could reach $205 million to $230 million. European
regulators approved the drug on May 20.  Dendreon’s prostate-cancer drug Provenge was approved by
U.S. regulators in April 2010, and the company estimated 2011
sales might reach as high as $400 million. When doctors didn’t
prescribe the medicine as quickly as expected, Dendreon was
forced to withdraw its revenue estimate in August, and this
month said it would cut 25 percent of its workforce. Shares have
declined 74 percent on the Nasdaq this year.  Disappointing Sales  “There has been a half a dozen biotech launches that have
disappointed,” said Christopher Raymond, an analyst at  Robert W.
Baird  in  Chicago , in a telephone interview. “People had
unrealistic expectations. It’s not that the launch is going
necessarily bad, but the companies have done worse than people
had hoped.”  The high prices for biotechnology drugs also are slowing
acceptance.  Human Genome ’s Benlysta for lupus patients with
moderate to severe systemic disease will cost about $35,000 a
year, David Southwell, the company’s chief financial officer,
said at a Sept. 15 investor conference.  The treatment is bought by doctors ahead of time, then
given intravenously to patients in medical offices or at centers
and hospitals. The procedure means “there’s a bit of a gap
between the actual agreement to reimburse the drug and the
perception of the rheumatologists that they will get paid,”
Southwell said.  Wary Doctors  As a result, a physician with 100 lupus patients may
prescribe the drug to only a few initially to see how the
reimbursement process works, then expand from there, he said.  For these reasons, “first-year guidance is very, very
difficult to give, there’s huge variability around it,”
Southwell said.  One result of the shift is that major pharmaceutical
companies that traditionally scooped up biotechs before they
gained approval for an experimental drug are now delaying bids
until a product is approved and the shares have fallen, said  NPS
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NPSP)  Chief Executive Officer Francois Nader.  “It’s a buyer’s market,” said Nader, whose Bedminster,
New Jersey-based company is developing a therapy for short bowel
syndrome. “The trend we have seen recently is big pharma
stepping in only after a drug is approved, rather than when it
is in the regulatory review process” as in the past.  That, in turn, has pressured biotechnology companies to
strengthen their balance sheets and seek new sources of revenue
to market their new products, he said.  Other companies with new drugs have faced similar issues to
Human Genome, said Schmidt of Cowen & Co.  Vertex Decline  Vertex saw its stock rise to $56.26 a day after the May 23
approval of its hepatitis C drug Incivek, which is being sold
for $49,200 for a 12-week treatment course. Two months later,
the company reported second-quarter revenue from Incivek of $75
million, more than double estimates by analysts, and three times
that of a rival drug from Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck.  Still, the shares have declined 20 percent on the Nasdaq
since the approval.  It’s a “$10 billion stock, they’re having a great launch,
they’re blowing away expectations, yet still people can’t take
up their peak sales estimates,” Schmidt said.  “I think we’ve beat the expectations at launch and we’ll
try to continue that,” Matthew Emmens, Vertex’s CEO, said at an
investor conference. “I think we’ve done a little better than
you thought we would.”  Next Up  The next companies to face declining shares once their
experimental medicines are cleared for sale may be Incyte Corp.,
of Wilmington, Delaware,  InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , of Brisbane,  California ,
and Tarrytown, New York-based  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ,
Schmidt said.  Acorda fell 29 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $20.27 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading; Dendreon added 4 cents
to $9.16; Human Genome fell 8 cents to $13.73; Regeneron
declined $1.15, or 1.9 percent to $59.94; and Vertex dropped
$1.18, or 2.6 percent, to $44.51.  Biotechnology company officials say the industry is
beginning to adjust to the change.  During the U.S. recession, which began in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009, biotechnology companies were running low on
funds, said Nader, of NPS. By the third quarter of 2008, 46
percent had less than one year of cash available, according to
data from the Biotechnology Industry Organization.  Partnerships, Mergers  That forced many to look for partnerships, mergers and new
sources of revenue to continue operations, Nader said. The
biotechnology companies that survived the recession tend to have
healthier balance sheets -- only 29 percent had less than one
year of cash last year.  NPS is currently targeting institutional investors at least
a year before its drug will likely hit the market after approval,
in late 2012 or early 2013, he said.  “Conventional investors on  Wall Street  don’t seem to look
out beyond what’s happening the next hour,” said Rajiv Kaul,
who manages the $1.3 billion Fidelity Select Biotechnology
Portfolio, in an interview. That provides an opening for long-
term investors, when the market eventually turns around.  “All this creates massive opportunity where you can find
situations where people are not looking out into the future,”
Kaul said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 