-- 
Boeing Plant Workers Arrested in Prescription-Drug Scheme

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T19:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/boeing-plant-workers-arrested-in-prescription-drug-scheme.html
U.S. prosecutors charged 37 people
with operating an illegal prescription-drug ring at a  Boeing Co. (BA) 
plant in Ridley Park,  Pennsylvania , where the Chinook military
helicopter is manufactured.  All but one person was a current or former employee at the
plant, which also makes the V-22 Osprey, Philadelphia U.S.
Attorney Zane Memeger said at a news conference today. Chicago-
based Boeing reported the suspected ring to federal authorities
four years ago, he said.  Of those charged, 23 were indicted for distributing drugs
including Actiq, Oxycontin and Xanax. Fourteen others who
weren’t indicted face misdemeanor charges of possession.  “This investigation and prosecution focused not only on
the sellers but also on the users because of the critical role
that these employees play in manufacturing military aircraft,”
Memeger said. No quality or safety problems were found in
aircraft being built at the plant, he said.  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Drug Enforcement
Administration agents raided the plant today, arresting 27
people, Memeger said. Nine others were arrested elsewhere, he
said. Memeger wouldn’t comment on the 37th person’s whereabouts.  Boeing said today that it monitored the employees, who
worked in production areas, beginning in August 2007 as part of
the federal investigation. Of those arrested, 33 were current
employees, said Damien Mills, a Boeing spokesman. More than
6,000 people work at the plant, he said.  “We took appropriate steps to ensure the safety of our
employees and the absolute integrity and quality of the products
we produce for our customers,” Mills said in a phone interview.  He declined to give details on how Boeing monitored the
employees. The company is still conducting an internal probe,
Mills said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 