-- 
BofA Plans $5 Monthly Fee for Some Debit-Cards

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-29T22:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/bofa-to-charge-5-monthly-fee-to-customers-using-debit-cards-for-purchases.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, plans to announce a $5 monthly charge for
some debit-card users to recoup revenue lost after new federal
rules capped so-called swipe fees.  Customers with lower-tiered accounts, including the firm’s
online-banking option, may start getting assessed the fee for
debit-card purchases in January, said Anne Pace, a Bank of
America spokeswoman. Users won’t be charged for cash-machine
withdrawals, and clients with premium accounts including those
linked to the Merrill Lynch brokerage aren’t affected, she said.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is
joining rivals including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in rolling out new charges for debit-
card users. The  Federal Reserve ’s rules limiting swipe fees, or
interchange, take effect next month. Banking industry
representatives have said the changes enrich merchants while
penalizing lower-income consumers.  “One of the unintended consequences is that this would
disproportionately harm lower-income individuals,” said Trish
Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Coalition,
which represents banks and networks. “If you can’t afford $5 a
month, you’re going to stop using your debit card.”  The Fed capped debit-card swipe fees at 21 cents starting
Oct. 1. It will let issuers tack on five basis points, or 0.05
percent, of each transaction, or almost 2 cents based on the
average debit purchase of $38, and a conditional 1-cent
adjustment for lenders that follow fraud-prevention standards.  Dodd-Frank  The cap, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, replaces a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents. The limit may reduce annual revenue at the biggest U.S.
banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.  “The economics of offering a debit card have changed with
recent regulations, and we’ve decided to introduce a monthly fee
for customers who use their  debit cards  for purchases,” Pace
said today in an interview.  Earlier this year, Bank of America introduced five new
accounts where users pay fees unless they keep minimum balances,
make regular deposits, use credit cards or take advantage of
online services. The offerings are designed to reward clients
who have multiple relationships with the bank.  $60 a Year  Only the top two tiers of accounts -- dubbed Premium and
Platinum Privileges and requiring $20,000 and $50,000,
respectively, in combined balances -- will be spared from the
new debit fees, which could total $60 a year per customer, Pace
said. Those with an existing account for college students called
CampusEdge will also be exempt, she said.  Wells Fargo, the second-biggest debit-card issuer after
Bank of America, is testing a $3 monthly debit-card fee in some
markets, the lender said last month.  Meanwhile,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest  U.S. bank ,
said this month that it wouldn’t charge additional fees for
debit-card use. Ally Financial Inc., formerly known as GMAC,
also said it hasn’t increased fees.  “Unlike many of our competitors, we will not charge fees
that discourage use or make it unreasonably expensive to take
advantage of the tools and services that consumers say are
important,” said Stephen Troutner, head of U.S. banking
products for Citigroup.  Moves by banks to increase charges “speaks more to the
nature of the card industry than to whether swipe-fee reform
should have been passed,” Mallory Duncan, general counsel for
the  National Retail Federation , said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  