-- 
Boston Scientific, Microsoft, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-29T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/boston-scientific-microsoft-sega-sammy-intellectual-property.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Cordis unit’s
appeal of a lower court ruling that one of its patents wasn’t
infringed by  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  was rejected by a federal
appeals court.  In its ruling yesterday the Washington-based Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which hears appeals of patent
cases, said a trial court in  Delaware  correctly determined that
 Boston  Scientific didn’t infringe patent 5,879,370.  The patent, issued in March 1999, covers an expandable
stent that is fabricated from a single piece of metal.  The suit was filed in April 1998, and has had a lengthy
procedural history, with several trips through the appeals
court.  In its most recent ruling the appeals court said the
Delaware court correctly determined that there wasn’t enough
evidence to support a jury’s finding that Boston Scientific
infringed a part of the disputed patent.  Cordis Corp.’s argument at the appeals court was made by
 Gregory L. Diskant  of  New York ’s Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler
LLP. Boston Scientific’s case was argued by  Frank P. Porcelli  of
Boston’s Fish & Richardson PC.  The appellate court case is Cordis Corp. v. Boston
Scientific, 10-01316,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit.  The lower court case is Cordis Corp. v. Boston Scientific,
1:98-CV-00197-SLR, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware.  Microsoft to Share Patents With Samsung, Market Windows Phone  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the software maker seeking to challenge
Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s dominance in smartphones, agreed to
share patents with handset-maker Samsung Electronics Co.  Microsoft will receive royalties for mobile phones and
tablets built by Samsung that use Google’s Android operating
system, according to a Sept. 28 company statement. The companies
also agreed to cooperate on the development and marketing of
Windows Phone, Microsoft’s mobile software.  Smartphones with Microsoft’s revamped Windows Phone 7
software have struggled to compete with Apple’s iPhone and
Android-based devices. Microsoft, whose Windows Mobile software
licenses were doubling annually before the iPhone was introduced
in 2007, announced an alliance with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in February to
develop smartphones.  LG Seeks to Block Osram-Equipped BMW, Audi Sales in S. Korea  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and LG Innotek Co. filed suit in  Seoul 
against  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Audi AG’s South Korean
units to block local sales of their vehicles equipped with
light-emitting diode package headlamps made by Osram GmbH.  The two LG Group affiliates said the Osram’s LED headlamps
infringed their patents, according to an e-mailed statement from
LG Electronics yesterday.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Sega European Trademark Filing Hints at New Title in Yakuza Game  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460) ’s Sega unit, creator of the Yakuza
and Sonic Hedgehog electronic games, is moving its Yakuza game
in a new direction, the Gaming Union Network  reported .  The publication based its report on European trademark
filings by Sega for “Yakuza Dead Souls.”  Previous games in the Yakuza series were released
exclusively for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation 3, and Gaming Union
Network predicted the new game will likely also be a PlayStation
exclusive.  Danish Jewelry Maker Pandora A/S Registers Trademark in  China   Pandora A/S, the maker of customizable charm bracelets,
registered its trademark in China, the Glostrup, Denmark-based
company said in a  statement .  The mark’s registration covers jewelry, watches and related
products, according to the statement.  Pandora has enforced its IP rights in the U.S. by filing at
least five suits in federal court, according to Bloomberg data.  Station Sues Mississippi Riverboat Casino for Infringing Mark  Station Casinos LLC’s IP holdings company filed a trademark
infringement suit against the operators of a riverboat casino in
Vicksburg, Mississippi.  Delta Investments & Developments LLC of South Carolina
bought the Horizon Vicksburg Casino from  Tropicana Entertainment
Inc. (TPCA)  for $3.25 million Dec. 7, 2010, according to a Tropicana
regulatory filing. The only intellectual property that was part
of the sale was the name “Horizon,” and purchasers were
required to remove any mention of the names “Tropicana” or
“Trop” within 90 days of closing of the sale.  Delta Investments closed the casino for renovation in March
2011, reopening in June as the Grand Station Hotel & Casino,
Station Casinos said in the complaint filed Sept. 27 in federal
court in Las Vegas.  Station objects to the name, saying it infringes on its
trademarks that include “Station Casinos,” “Palace Station,”
“Boulder Station,” “Texas Station,” “Sunset Station” and
“Santa Fe Station.”  The Vicksburg casino’s use of “station” in its name and
in its website --  www.grandstationcasino.com  -- are likely to
cause the public to assume falsely that an affiliation exists
between Station Casinos and the Mississippi casino, according to
court papers.  Las Vegas-based Station claims it has suffered “monetary
loss and irreparable injury” as a result of the Mississippi
casino’s use of “station” in its name. The company asked the
court to bar the use of its marks or any “confusingly similar
variations.”  Additionally, the company seeks an award of the profits the
riverboat casino has earned in connection with its unauthorized
use of the “Grand station” mark, together with awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Counsel for Delta Investments didn’t respond immediately to
an e-mailed request for comment.  Station is represented by  Tamara Beatty Peterson  and  Laura
Bielinski  of Denver-based  Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP .  The case is NP IP Holdings LLC v. Delta Investments &
Development LLC, 2:11-cv-01553-PMO-LRL, U.S. District Court,
District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Has No Standing to Sue, Judge in Denver Cases Rules  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based copyright-enforcement
organization, was told it lacked standing to pursue a copyright
infringement case in federal court in Denver.  The ruling is significant because judge who made this
determination is overseeing all 57 copyright infringement cases
Righthaven filed in that court since Jan. 20.  Righthaven filed the cases on behalf of the Denver-based
MediNews Group Inc. The suits related to the unauthorized use of
content from MediaNews Group’s “Denver Post.”  The owner of the itmakesense.com website was sued March 31
for using content from the newspaper on the  itmakessenseblog.com 
website.  In each case Righthaven claimed to own the copyright to the
work that was allegedly infringed.  In his Sept. 27 ruling, U.S. District Judge John L. Kane
said he gave a close reading to the copyright assignment
agreement between MediaNews Group. He noted that under the
agreement, Righthaven has no rights to the particular copyright
“other than the right to proceed in association with a
recovery.”  This limitation means that Righthaven isn’t an owner as
defined by copyright law, Kane said. As such “it lacks standing
to institute an action for copyright infringement.”  He also said that because he wished to “discourage the
abuse of the statutory remedies for copyright infringement,” so
in addition to ruling there was no reason for the trial to go
ahead, he awarded attorney fees and litigation costs to the
defendant.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Leland Wolf, 1:11-cv-00830-
JLK, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  In a Sept. 8 court filing in a Righthaven case in a Nevada
federal court on behalf of Las Vegas-based Stephens Media Group,
a defendant who was awarded attorney fees has asked for seizure
of Righthaven’s intellectual property, real estate and bank
accounts.  That case is Righthaven v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Apple Court Order Blocking Psystar Product Sales Is Upheld  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won an appeals court ruling upholding a lower-
court order blocking Psystar Corp., maker of Macintosh computer
clones, from selling copies of Apple Inc.’s operating system.  The case, filed in federal court in  San Francisco  in 2008,
was related to a Psystar software product that made it possible
for customers to run the Mac Snow Leopard operating system on a
non-Apple computer.  Cupertino, California-based Apple had claimed that Psystar,
based in Doral,  Florida , was selling inferior computers and
servers using unauthorized copies of the operating system. It
was also accused of selling downloadable updates for Snow
Leopard.  The district court found that Psystar infringed the Apple
copyrights. While Psystar didn’t appeal the infringement
finding, it asked the appeals court to reconsider the lower
court’s rejection of its contention that Apple’s software
license agreement was unenforceable.  Psystar had argued that the license provision requiring
Apple’s operating system be run only on Apple computers was an
unenforceable misuse of its copyright.  Apple argued that Psystar failed to prove copyright abuse
because the license agreement didn’t restrict creativity or
competition. The appeals court agreed, and also affirmed the
lower court’s ruling barring future infringement.  The appeals court agreed with Psystar that Apple failed to
present an adequate argument for the sealing of Apple records in
the case file. It ordered the lower court to unseal those
records.  The appeals court case is Apple Inc. v. Psystar Corp. 10-
15113, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The lower
court case is Apple Inc. v. Psystar Corp., 3:08-cv-03251-WHA,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Carlyle Group ’s Expected Water Company Profit Is Trade Secret  Carlyle Group’s profit expected from Missoula, Montana’s
 Mountain Water Co.  is covered by a protective order and can’t be
revealed to the public, the Missoulian newspaper reported.  The Washington-based private-equity  fund manager  is seeking
approval from Montana’s Public Service Commission of its $102
million purchase of Park Water Co. and its Mountain Water unit,
according to the newspaper.  In a pre-purchase investment committee memo it provided,
Carlyle said it planned to sell the water companies within five
to 10 years, according to the Missoulian.  An economist witness to the  Montana Consumer Counsel , who
couldn’t reveal the Carlyle financial information to which he
had access, filed documents with the Public Service Commission
saying that while he didn’t necessarily agree with the
reasonableness of the group’s profit assumptions, he didn’t see
them as “problematic to ratepayers,” the Missoulian reported.  Malaysian Hoteliers Fear Reports to Board Reveal Trade Secrets  Hoteliers in Malaysia’s Sarwak state are reluctant to
register with that country’s Tourism Promotion Board for fear of
divulging their trade secrets, the Borneo Post  reported .  An official of the board told the Borneo Post that only 50
percent of the region’s hotels, homestays and bed and breakfast
inns had registered.  He said the hoteliers’ fears were unfounded as the
commission works “in a private and confidential mode” and runs
statistics on an overall basis, not on individual hotels,
according to the Post.  The number of reported hotel guests in the region declined
more than 10 percent over last year, mainly related to the
economy and a state election, the Post reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 