-- 
Brazil Rate Future Yields Climb as Central Bank Signals ‘Moderate’ Cuts

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-29T22:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/brazil-rate-futures-rise-as-traders-see-more-hawkish-tone.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose after the central bank signaled it
won’t accelerate rate cuts as it seeks to bring inflation back
to target next year.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.47 percent at 6
p.m. in  New York . The real was little changed at 1.8403 per
dollar, compared with 1.8408 yesterday. The currency has lost
13.1 percent this month, the worst performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank said in its quarterly inflation report
today that “moderate” adjustments in the country’s benchmark
interest rate are in line with its forecast for inflation to
fall to the 4.5 percent target in 2012. Traders took the comment
as a signal the bank may not quicken the pace of interest-rate
cuts after a 50 basis-point reduction in August, said Marcelo Gazzano, an economist with RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  “The report suggests that the room to cut  interest rates 
may be smaller,” Gazzano said in a telephone interview. “The
central bank tries to be more hawkish.”  The central bank predicts the annual inflation rate will
fall next year from 7.33 percent in mid-September as global
growth slows amid the European debt crisis and U.S. economic
slump. The bank also cut its 2011 growth forecast for  Latin
America ’s biggest economy to 3.5 percent from a previous
forecast of 4 percent.  October Meeting  “The monetary policy committee understands that by
mitigating the effects of a more restrictive global environment
in a timely manner, moderate adjustments in the basic rate are
consistent with its scenario of inflation converging toward the
target in 2012,” policy makers said in the inflation report.  Yields on the futures contract due in January indicate
traders are betting policy makers will lower the benchmark Selic
rate as much as 75 basis points at their Oct. 19 meeting.
August’s cut followed five straight increases that drove the
rate up 175 basis points to 12.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  