-- 
Brazil Plans ‘Moderate’ Interest-Rate Cuts as Global Outlook Deteriorates

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-09-29T14:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/brazil-bank-says-lower-rates-won-t-affect-inflation-goal-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank said it plans
to carry out “moderate”  interest rate  cuts to shield  Latin
America ’s biggest economy from the European debt crisis, while
ensuring inflation slows in line with the target next year.  “By mitigating the effects of a more restrictive global
environment in a timely manner, moderate adjustments in the
basic rate are consistent with the outlook in which inflation
converges to its target in 2012,” policy makers said today in
their quarterly inflation  report . The outlook for inflation has
improved “because of the substantial deterioration of the
international environment.”  Policy makers surprised economists by cutting the overnight
interest rate by half a point to 12 percent in August, a day
after President  Dilma Rousseff  vowed to take Brazil on a “new
pathway” of lower borrowing costs. That prompted analysts to
speculate central bank President Alexandre Tombini had yielded
to political pressure. Policy makers had raised the key rate in
each of their previous five meetings.  The yield on interest rate futures maturing in January
2013, the most-traded in  Sao Paulo , rose six basis points to
10.47 percent at 10:47 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened
0.5 percent to 1.8309 per  U.S. dollar .  “It seems there is no room for more aggressive rate
cuts,” said Luciano Rotagno, chief strategist at CM Capital
Markets in Sao Paulo. “‘The central bank signaled it doesn’t
plan to accelerate the pace of cuts.”  Inflation Forecasts  In a speech in Curitiba today, Tombini also reiterated his
pledge to bring inflation back to the 4.5 percent target in 2012
from 7.33 percent in the 12 months through mid-September.  Even as the central bank said inflation would reach the
target next year, its estimates told a different story. The bank
forecast consumer prices will rise 4.7 percent in 2012 and only
slow to the 4.5 percent target in the second quarter of 2013,
according to its reference scenario where the Selic rate stays
at its current 12 percent per year.  In the market scenario, where policy makers cut the
overnight rate to 11 percent by year-end, inflation exceeded the
mid-point of the 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target at least
until the third quarter of 2013, the report showed.  Even when the central bank takes into account the impact of
the global crisis, inflation exceeds Tombini’s target throughout
the third quarter of 2013. Policy makers expect the current
crisis to be more prolonged, though less intense than the 2008
credit crunch.  Inflationary Pressure  A separate report today showed inflationary pressures
remain strong. Consumer, construction and wholesale prices, as
measured by the IGP-M index, rose 0.65 percent this month, the
biggest jump since February, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said.
Analysts expected prices to gain 0.62 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The decision to lower rates even as inflation quickens
prompted analysts to forecast the central bank will miss its 4.5
percent target in 2011, 2012 and 2013. They expect consumer
prices to rise 4.8 percent in 2013, according to a central bank
survey of about 100 analysts published on Sept. 26.  Brazil was the second country in the Group of 20 nations
after  Turkey  to lower interest rates to shore up economic
growth. The move was followed by the Bank of  Israel , which
unexpectedly trimmed its key rate on Sept. 26 for the first time
in more than two years.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3.5 percent
this year, down from a previous forecast of 4 percent, the bank
said.  Ensuring Growth  Rousseff’s pro-growth policies will ensure economic
expansion of more than 3 percent this year, said  Ilan Goldfajn ,
chief economist at Itau Unibanco Holding SA.  Tombini this week said inflation will slow to below 6.5
percent by the end of the year, while analysts surveyed by the
central bank expect consumer prices to rise 6.52 percent in
2011. It would be the first time since 2003 that inflation
exceeded the upper limit of the bank’s target range.  There is a 45 percent chance inflation will exceed the
upper limit of the target this year, according to the central
bank reference scenario.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 