-- 
The Buffett ‘Put’ Gives a Hint of What’s Coming: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/buffett-put-gives-a-hint-of-what-s-coming-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
One of the biggest questions
surrounding Berkshire Hathaway stock has been what happens the
day  Warren Buffett  retires or gets hit by the proverbial truck.  Now we know the answer. The stock will trade at least 10
percent higher than Berkshire’s book value, or roughly what’s
left after liabilities are subtracted from assets.  We can infer this from Berkshire’s open-ended share
repurchase plan, in which it may buy back stock any time the
shares fall below 110 percent of book value as long as the
company has $20 billion in cash and equivalents on hand.  Among the reasons Berkshire cited for the buyback plan was
the recent stock price -- $100,000 for the Class A shares --
which the company said was considerably less than the value of
its underlying businesses. The A shares rose 8.1 percent on
Sept. 26, the day of the announcement, to $108,449. The stock
closed at $106,500 yesterday.  Buffett wants Berkshire’s stock price to reflect its
“intrinsic value,” which in his opinion should be a premium to
stated book value. But this has never been a reason for a share
buyback before. Buffett has always cited other, better
opportunities, or the need to hold dry powder for when they
might appear.  Even during the worst of the financial crisis from
September 2008 to March 2009, when Berkshire’s stock fell by 50
percent, the company didn’t start a buyback. Only once in the
past four decades, in 2000 at the peak of the Internet bubble,
did Berkshire offer to repurchase shares. In the end, it didn’t
because the announcement drove up the stock price so much.  ‘Not a Dime’  In January 2010, Buffett said the shares were undervalued
and regretted having to use them for the stock portion of the
$34 billion acquisition of Burlington Northern  Santa Fe . In his
latest shareholder  letter  this February, Buffett made it a point
of honor to say that “not a dime of cash has left Berkshire for
dividends or share repurchases during the past 40 years.”  Now that Buffett has done it, the main effect is to set a
floor under the stock. Although book value is subject to market
fluctuations, Berkshire’s existing businesses over time will
grow, increasing book value. Think of it this way: An option to
sell, or “put,” the stock back to Berkshire at 110 percent of
a rising book value is dear -- assuming, of course, that the
company does go ahead with repurchasing shares. This again
raises the question of why Buffett would make such a commitment
simply because the stock is undervalued today.  Bagging Elephants  I believe that setting up a standing repurchase
authorization amounts to a statement that Buffett’s days of
bagging elephants are growing short. It’s no longer a sure thing
that he will be able to personally deploy Berkshire’s swelling
stash of capital. Moreover, the buyback terms will support the
shares at 110 percent of book value even if there is bad news.
And the one piece of information most likely to hurt the stock
would be that Buffett, 81, was retiring or could no longer run
the company.  More than a few people have wondered whether Buffett would
really be so sorry if the stock got a haircut if he left. It’s
flattering to think that the price of Berkshire stock rests on
his shoulders alone. The problem with this idea is that
Buffett’s friends and partners will pay the price. They are
selling large amounts of stock now and in the next few years to
make bequests and donations. They include Buffett’s original
investors in his first partnership, the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation  and his children’s charities. Seeing them sell their
Berkshire stock at a depressed price isn’t something Buffett
wants.  Thinking of Succession  This also isn’t the first sign that Buffett and Berkshire’s
board are thinking of succession. After last year’s bungled
handling of Chief Executive Officer  David Sokol ’s departure amid
allegations that his investments violated Berkshire’s ethics
code, there are signs that Berkshire’s board is stepping up its
oversight and governance. Berkshire directors met, at least
informally, with Ted Weschler before Buffett hired him this
month as an investment manager, and something resembling a due
diligence process was followed. I expect it won’t be long before
the board starts meeting more than twice a year, makes some
changes to its committee structure and begins replacing older
directors with younger ones not so closely tied to Buffett.  Changes to the board may figure in to who’s picked to be
Berkshire’s next CEO. Berkshire’s statement about Weschler’s
hiring mentioned Buffett’s retirement for the first time and
referred to the period “after” he is CEO. This hint that
changes in the CEO job are coming -- if not necessarily in the
chairmanship, which Buffett also holds -- coincides with another
change.  This July, Berkshire’s vice chairman, Charles T. Munger,
said he would end his popular investor meetings in  Pasadena ,
 California . Munger, who turns 88 in January, traditionally
appears on stage with Buffett at Berkshire’s annual meeting, an
exercise that can last six hours. That can’t be getting easier.
Surely Buffett doesn’t want to be up there by himself. Whether
he’s ready to talk about it or not, it’s a matter of time --
maybe a short time -- before he invites another manager, or
maybe two, to join him in the limelight.  (Alice Schroeder, the author of “The Snowball: Warren
Buffett and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on  Wall Street , is a Bloomberg View columnist.
She owns Berkshire Hathaway stock. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the author of this article:
 Alice Schroeder  at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 