-- 
Bulgarian Protests Subside After Arrest of Roma Clan Leader

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-29T09:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/bulgarian-protests-subside-after-roma-crime-boss-arrest.html
Bulgarian protests against the Roma
community and the government for its failure to deal with
organized crime subsided after a third night following the
arrest of Roma clan leader Kiril Rashkov.  The protests, sparked by the hit-and-run killing of 19-
year-old Angel Petrov by an associate of Rashkov in the
Katunitsa village near Plovdiv during the weekend, rallied
around 600 people in nine cities last night, the Interior
Ministry said on its website. Police detained 10 people, after
168 on Sept. 27. There were no severe casualties or damage,
police said.  About 100 protesters in central Sofia, mostly teenagers and
soccer fans organized through social media networks, carried
banners, saying “Equal rights and obligations for all!” and
demanded the government’s resignation.  The protests in the  European Union’s  poorest country in
terms of economic output per capita, coincide with the election
campaign before presidential and city council elections on Oct.
23. Roma account for 4.9 percent of the country’s population of
7.4 million people, according to the statistics office. They are
among the poorest and least educated, according to this year’s
census.  “Toying with ethnic peace is too high a price to pay for
voters’ confidence,” said Krasimir Velchev, the head of the
ruling party’s Gerb parliamentary group, in the Sofia-based
assembly yesterday.  Political ‘Weapon’  A leaflet headlined “Roma Crime -- a Threat to the
State,” was distributed in parliament yesterday by members of
Attack, a nationalist party with 16 lawmakers in the 240-seat
assembly. Its leader, Volen Siderov, is running for president
with the campaign slogan: “I am your weapon, use it.”  Riot police in Blagoevgrad scuffled with a group of
protesters who tried to go into the Roma quarters, Focus news
agency reported today.  Bulgaria ’s chief prosecutor Boris Velchev issued a
statement two days ago, saying “everyone who incites racial or
ethnic hatred through actions or words will be arrested.”
Bulgarian laws allow punishment of as long as six years in jail
and fines of up to 15,000 lev ($10,440) for violating that law.  “There is a local feudal lord with dubious contacts and
high  living standards  in every Bulgarian town,” Velchev told
reporters in Sofia today. “More than 20 of these individuals
are being probed by the prosecution in the past month.”  Judicial Criticism  Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007 and has since been
criticized for failing to fight crime and corruption. The EU has
repeatedly criticized Bulgaria for failing to improve its
ineffective judicial system and for not prosecuting organized
crime leaders and corrupt high-level government officials.  Simon Yosifov, the minivan driver who ran over Petrov, and
Rashkov, who is known throughout the Balkan country as Tzar
Kiro, were arrested, Kalin Georgiev, chief secretary of the
police, said yesterday.  Rashkov, 69, has been under investigation for  tax evasion 
and illegal production of alcoholic beverages, Georgiev said.
The National Revenue Service froze all of Rashkov’s assets and
started 18 investigations into his business, Georgiev said.  He was arrested on a claim filed on Sept. 23 by another
villager that Rashkov threatened him with murder, an offense
punishable by six years in prison.  Rashkov’s fellow villagers set some of his cars and houses
in Katunitsa on fire in retaliation for Petrov’s death during
the weekend, police said.  The villagers accuse him of racketeering and harassment and
blame the authorities for failing to take measures against him
because of high-level political protection, Atanas Petrov,
Angel’s father, said in a BTV interview.  The state for decades has not done enough to provide equal
access to education and employment for the Roma and ethnic
Turks, which forces them to resort to crime as source of income,
according to Antonina Zheliazkova, director of the  International
Minority Studies Center  in Sofia, said in an interview two days
ago.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  