-- 
Calpers Pension Investment Chief Says 7.75% Return May Be Tough to Meet

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   S c a r l e t   F u
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/calpers-investment-chief-says-7-75-return-may-be-tough-to-meet.html
The  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System, with half its money in equities, will be
hard-pressed to return 7.75 percent this year as the weak U.S.
recovery and deepening debt crisis in  Europe  weigh on global
stocks, its investment chief said.  Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension fund, assumes it
will earn an average of 7.75 percent annually to meet its
obligations. It spreads losses and gains over 15 years to blunt
the impact that annual swings may have on the amount of money
the fund charges taxpayers to finance retirement benefits for
government workers.  “That’s going to be tough this year and maybe for the next
few years,” Calpers Chief Investment Officer  Joe Dear  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “This low-return
environment is structurally driven, and there’s not a lot of
policy to move it.”  The fund earned 20.7 percent in the 12 months ended June
30, its best result in 14 years, led by gains in stocks and
private equity. Since then, Calpers’s value has dropped by $20
billion to $218.6 billion as of Sept. 26, as global stocks
declined 18 percent.  Even with the fiscal 2011 gains, the pension fund has
earned 3.41 percent annually on average in the past five years,
5.36 percent in the last 10 and 6.97 percent in the last 15. It
has only beaten its assumed rate of return with a 20-year
average of 8.38 percent annually.  Nationwide, state pensions will achieve a median annual
return of 6.5 percent in the next 15 years, according to a
February study by  Wilshire Associates , the  Santa Monica ,
California,  investment adviser .  ‘Absolutely Confident’  “Do I think its achievable over the long term, the 15 to
20 year horizon? I’m absolutely confident about that,” Dear
said yesterday in a follow-up telephone interview.  The fund’s governing board in March decided against a
recommendation by its actuaries to reduce its assumed rate of
return on the expectation that markets would trail the
historical average. The fund lost almost a quarter of its value
in 2009 as the global recession dragged down stock prices and
real-estate values.  “Once you look at a significant length of time, the cycles
smooth out and a portfolio with a patient, disciplined approach
will produce a return that matches our expectation of 7.75
percent,” Dear said.  70% Funded  Calpers in January said it had only about 70 percent of the
money it needs to cover benefits promised to government workers
when they retire. The pension was fully funded when the
recession began in December 2007.  Dear said the fund will look beyond stocks to its other
asset classes, such as private equity,  hedge funds  and
infrastructure, to help boost returns.  Calpers has about 14 percent, or $33.6 billion as of June
30, invested in  private-equity  funds, which returned 25.3
percent through the end of that month.  “We are in a low-return environment with a lot of downside
risk right now,” Dear said. “You need to be realistic about
the prospects and you need to ask what are the alternatives that
might produce a better return than a classic stock-bond
portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Scarlet Fu in New York at 
 scarfu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  