-- 
Canadian Banks, CFTC Speculation Curbs, SEC ‘Purge’ Lawsuit: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-29T12:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/canadian-banks-speculation-curbs-sec-purge-suit-compliance.html
Compliance with IRS financial
disclosure rules intended to nab U.S. tax evaders in  Canada  is
proving complicated because of the large number of dual U.S. and
Canadian citizens, tax lawyers on both sides of the border say.  Dual citizens must file annual U.S. tax returns and
complete a separate yearly IRS filing if they have Canadian or
other non-U.S. financial accounts of  more than $10,000 , under
Internal Revenue Service rules.  A third program requires banks and other financial
institutions in Canada to disclose the identities of U.S.
account holders to the IRS or risk having a portion of their
income from U.S. investments withheld as soon as 2014.  The head of the  Canadian Bankers Association , Terry
Campbell, said the country’s 72 banks have no easy way of
sifting through 20 million to 25 million accounts to find
customers with a U.S. citizenship link.  Campbell, president of the Toronto-based  Canadian Bankers
Association , said the reporting requirements are “an enormous,
enormous compliance burden” for the country’s banks.  Canadian Finance  Minister  Jim Flaherty  called the U.S.
reporting rules for banks and individuals burdensome and
ineffective in combating tax evasion in a Sept. 16 statement.  The IRS “recognizes that many Canadians face complex tax
situations because of dual citizenship,” Terry Lemons, an IRS
spokesman, said in a statement. Recent publicity about the issue
“has spotlighted a number of areas that the IRS will consider
in our continuing effort to strike the right balance in
administering the U.S. tax laws,” he said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC to Face Lawmaker Scrutiny Over Speculation Curbs  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , which has
yet to complete Dodd-Frank Act limits on excessive speculation,
will face scrutiny about the trading curbs at an Oct. 6 hearing
led by Senator Carl Levin.  CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  will testify at the hearing of
the  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , according to a
statement released by Levin’s office yesterday.  The CFTC, after delaying consideration in September,
delayed a final vote on the regulations until an Oct. 18
 Washington  meeting,  Steve Adamske , the agency’s spokesman, said
Sept. 27. The rule has among the most contentious stemming from
Dodd-Frank, spurring more than 13,000 comments from supporters
such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents including  Barclays
Capital .  The agency has come under pressure from lawmakers to
complete the speculation rule, originally proposed in January.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
U.S. efforts to write new derivatives rules for the $601
trillion global swaps market after largely unregulated trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The rules will govern trades
conducted by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Cargill Inc., among other companies.  Basel Committee Agreed to Speed Up Review of Liquidity Plans  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said it will
speed up a review of draft liquidity rules for lenders that are
intended to take effect at the start of 2015.  The review will be completed “well in advance” of an
original mid-2013 deadline for finishing an assessment of the
measures, the group said yesterday.  The so-called liquidity coverage ratio requires banks to
hold enough easily saleable assets to survive a 30-day credit
crunch.  Basel III Hurts European Companies More Than U.S., S&P Says  European companies will pay as much as 50 billion euros
($68 billion) a year in additional borrowing costs under new
capital rules for banks and insurers, more than triple the
amount for U.S. borrowers, Standard and Poor’s said.  Higher funding costs, shortened loan maturities and a lower
equity investor base may push up the cost of credit by 30
billion euros to 50 billion euros a year once Basel III and
Solvency II are implemented fully by 2018, Blaise Ganguin, S&P’s
chief credit officer for  Europe , wrote in a report. U.S.
borrowers will see costs increase by $9 billion to $14 billion.  Basel III imposes a global regulatory standard on the
capital adequacy and liquidity of banks, while Solvency II is
designed to boost insurers’ reserves. The euro-region crisis has
left European lenders with as much as 300 billion euros of
credit risk, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The new rules will lead to a 10 percent to 20 percent
increase over current interest costs for corporate borrowers in
Europe and the U.S., depending on banks’ return on equity
targets of 8 percent to 15 percent, according to S&P. The
regulations are due to start in 2013, with the final stages of
the banking reform introduced in 2018.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Dutch Arrest Four Men Suspected of $200 Million Ponzi Scheme  Dutch authorities arrested four men suspected of selling
more than $200 million in investments in U.S. life insurance
policies in an alleged Ponzi scheme.  Quality Investments BV  is suspected of having sold
investment products to hundreds of investors, mainly in the
Netherlands and Belgium, the Dutch Fiscal Information and
Investigation Service said in a statement yesterday.  Provident Capital Indemnity Ltd., the Costa Rica-based firm
accused by U.S. prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange
Commission in January of conducting life settlement bonding
fraud, would provide the securities, the Dutch authorities said.  No one at Quality Investments was available to comment on
the allegations, according to a telephone operator at its
Amsterdam offices, who declined to be identified.  Italy, Spain Extend Short-Selling Bans, Esma Says  Italian and Spanish financial market regulators extended
temporary bans on short selling of financial shares that were
introduced last month in a bid to stem market volatility, the
 European Securities and Markets Authority  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Italy’s market regulator, Consob, said the ban, due to
expire on Sept. 30, will remain in place until Nov. 11,
according to a statement on its website.  The ban in Spain, also due to expire on Sept. 30, will
remain in place “until the market conditions allow it to be
lifted,” Spain’s market regulator said in Madrid.  U.K. to Close Loophole for Solar Park Extensions in October  The U.K.  Department of Energy and Climate Change  will
eliminate a regulatory loophole allowing extensions to solar
plants completed before August to receive higher incentives.  Extensions to solar parks built before the feed-in tariff
solar premiums were cut on Aug. 1 won’t qualify for the old
tariffs from Oct. 18, according to the  results  of a consultation
on the changes posted on the department’s website Sept. 27. They
will only be eligible for the rate available when they are
completed.  On July 27, the government  started  a one-month consultation
aiming to change the clause by the end of October.  Chaoda’s Chairman, Fidelity Manager Accused of Insider Trading  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682) ’s Chairman Kwok Ho,
Chief Financial Officer Andy Chan and Fidelity Management’s
George Stairs were accused by Hong Kong’s financial secretary of
insider trading.  The government alleges Kwok and Chan told Stairs about a
June 2009 share placement three days before it was publicly
announced, and the fund manager traded profitably as a result,
according to a  notice  released by Hong Kong’s  Market Misconduct
Tribunal  Sept. 27.  While insider trading can be punished by 10 years in prison
and a HK$10 million ($1.3 million) fine in a criminal court in
Hong Kong, the tribunal hearing this civil case only has the
power to disgorge profits made or losses avoided. It can also
ban individuals from being a director or manager of a
corporation, and from dealing in any securities.  Boston-based Fidelity Investments conducted a thorough
internal review of the matter in 2009 and believes that Stairs
didn’t violate any laws or regulations, according to spokesman
 Vincent Loporchio .  “He continues to be an employee in good standing,”
Loporchio said.  Rimsky Yuen, a lawyer for Kwok, and Graham Harris, a lawyer
for Andy Chan, didn’t comment on the case after the proceedings.  Tribunal chairman Michael Lunn said he returned to Hong
Kong yesterday afternoon to convene the hearing.  Spain, the Netherlands Given Deadline for Bank Capital Rules  The  European Commission  has handed Spain and the
Netherlands a deadline of Dec. 29 to implement agreed changes to
the region’s bank capital rules.  The Dutch government has yet to adopt the necessary
legislation to implement the measures, which include limits on
the amount of loans a bank can make to a single business, the
commission said. Spain needs to take “technical measures” to
complete its application of the rules.  The changes originally had an Oct. 31 deadline across the
European Union, the commission said today in an e-mailed
statement.  U.K. FSA Fines Towry Investment $773,000 Over Incorrect Data  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority fined  Towry
Investment Management Ltd.  494,000 pounds ($773,000) for
misleading the regulator and failing to comply with client money
rules, the FSA said in an e-mailed statement today.  The company “failed to maintain adequate records” of
client money and provided “inaccurate information” to the FSA,
the regulator said. Towry earned a 30 percent discount on the
fine by agreeing to settle at an early stage.  Royal Bank of Scotland Faces Loan-Document Probe, FT Reports  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-owned bank, faces U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission scrutiny over demands by investors that it repurchase
some debts, the Financial Times reported.  The inquiry is part of a probe into how financial firms
handled faulty mortgage loans, the newspaper reported today,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. The
regulator has sought information on “document deficiencies,”
related to remedial measures and early payment defaults, the
London-based bank said in an Aug. 30 regulatory filing.  The SEC is investigating whether banks misled shareholders
about how many loans they might be forced to repurchase because
of early defaults, the Financial Times reported. Regulators are
also investigating whether lenders had enough reserves to fund
repurchases or handle related litigation, according to the
report.  The SEC began an inquiry in October, which was converted
into a formal investigation in January, according to the filing.  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman for RBS, declined to
comment on the inquiry. The bank is fully cooperating with the
probe, according to the filing.  John Nester , a spokesman for the
SEC, declined to comment.  Courts  SEC Sued Over 1998 Policy of Purging Files Linked to Probes  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was accused in
a lawsuit by a government watchdog of illegally destroying
documents from probes of Bernard Madoff,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics  in Washington
yesterday asked a federal judge in Washington to order the
commission and its chairman, Mary Schapiro, to preserve
investigative records and attempt to recover files that were
destroyed.  The SEC’s data policy came under scrutiny after Darcy
Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee, claimed in a letter to U.S.
Senator Charles Grassley that the agency destroyed documents
including materials related to Goldman Sachs’ trades of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  credit-default swaps in 2009, as well
as insider-trading probes and investigations of possible
financial fraud in 2007 and 2008.  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
suit.  The case is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington v. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-cv-
01732, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  SEC Sues NIR’s Ribotsky for Stealing $1 Million From Clients  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued investment
firm NIR Group LLC and its principal for allegedly hiding poor
performance from investors and siphoning more than $1 million
for personal use.  Corey Ribotsky, the sole managing member of Long Island-
based NIR, wrote checks to himself from the firm’s $876 million
AJW family of  hedge funds  from 2004 to 2009, even after his head
accountant told him he was violating the law, the SEC said
yesterday in a  complaint  filed in federal court in  New York . The
agency also sued Daryl Dworkin, an NIR analyst accused of
falsifying client reports under Ribotsky’s direction.  Ribotsky used client funds to pay for luxury items
including Lexus and Mercedes automobiles and a Rolex watch, the
SEC said.  NIR and Ribotsky will fight the SEC’s claims, according to
a statement from Brad Gerstman, Ribotsky’s lawyer. “The
complaint appears to be a stretch in an attempt to justify
approximately two years of time and resources poured into the
investigation,” Gerstman said.  Interviews/Speeches  German Banks Association Says EU Transaction Tax is ‘Mistake’  Plans to introduce a European financial-transactions tax is
a “mistake,” according to the  BdB Association of German Banks .  “Such a tax is dangerous for European financial markets
and ultimately puts at risk economic growth,” said Michael
Kemmer, general manager of the BdB.  The European Union proposed a financial-transactions tax
that would take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion euros
($78 billion) a year, prompting renewed opposition from the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 