-- 
Canada Budget Office Sees Long-Term Deficits Without Cuts

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-29T16:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/canada-budget-office-sees-long-term-deficits-without-cuts-1-.html
Canada ’s federal and provincial
governments must raise taxes or make budget cuts to avoid long-
term deficits, as an ageing population slows economic growth and
boosts spending faster than revenue, the country’s parliamentary
budget office said in a  report  today.  The cuts, if made now, would need to be equal to 2.7
percent of Canada’s gross domestic product, with 1.5 points of
that coming from provinces, the budget office led by  Kevin Page 
said in a report from Ottawa today. If delayed for five years
the cuts would need to be 3 percentage points, the report said.  “PBO’s analysis suggests that the fiscal structure at the
federal and provincial-territorial level is not sustainable over
the long term,” the budget office said.  The report mirrors other research from  Statistics Canada 
and private economists showing the ageing population will drive
up health costs and pressure government budgets. The cuts
required today are less than ones made in the mid-1990s, which
equaled to 6.2 percent of GDP, the budget office said.  “To put PBO’s estimate of the fiscal gap in context, it
represents $46 billion of fiscal actions in 2011-12 and the
amount of these actions, in dollar terms, would increase over
time in line with GDP,” the report said.  Growth Projections  The estimates are based on a 75-year projection that
captures trends such as a changing population and strips out the
impact of short-term swings in economic growth. It assumes the
annual increases in transfers to provincial governments are kept
at today’s pace of 6 percent for health care and at 3 percent
for some other social programs.  Combined government debts would increase to more than 400
percent of GDP by 2082 without new increases in taxes or
spending cuts, the analysis showed.  Canada’s average economic growth rate may slow to 1.8
percent from 2011 to 2086 from the rate of 2.6 percent observed
over 1977-2010, the report said. The decline would come as the
growth of the  labor force  declines with more people retiring and
as the share of the population in their “prime working-age”
years falls, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 