-- 
Canada’s Dollar Trades at Almost One-Year Low as Risk Appetite Declines

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-09-29T21:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/canada-s-dollar-trades-at-almost-one-year-low-as-risk-appetite-declines.html
Canada ’s dollar traded at almost a
one-year low against the greenback as investors sought to cut
risk exposure by buying U.S. dollar-denominated assets.  The U.S. dollar has climbed against all but Japanese yen
among of its 16 most-traded counterparts this quarter --
including a 7 percent gain against the loonie -- as investors
flocked to the currency to shield themselves from  Europe ’s
escalating sovereign debt crisis. The dollar’s status as a haven
has increased even after a debate about the debt ceiling led to
the U.S. credit rating being downgraded in August, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said yesterday.  “Generally, oil and equities drive the currency, but what
we are seeing today is that people are looking at the U.S.
dollar dips as an opportunity to liquidate their Canadian dollar
position,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of Knightsbridge
Foreign Exchange Inc. in Toronto. “While people want to cling
on to a risk-on trade, it seems they are positioning themselves
for risk-off and taking every opportunity to buy U.S. dollars
when they can.”  The loonie, as the currency is also known, dropped 0.2
percent to C$1.0359 per U.S. dollar by 5 p.m. in Toronto,
compared with C$1.0335 yesterday. Earlier, it rose as much as
0.8 percent, touching C$1.0257. It reached C$1.0386 on Sept. 26,
the weakest in more than one year. One Canadian dollar buys
96.53 U.S. cents.  Quarter Decline  The loonie has declined 2.2 percent during the past three
months among a basket of the currencies of 10 developed markets,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S.
dollar has appreciated 6 percent in the same period.  A report showed the American economy grew faster than
earlier estimated and jobless claims declined. The  U.S. economy 
expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, and
applications for jobless benefits dropped by 37,000 in the week
ended Sept. 24 to 391,000, the fewest since April, according to
government data. The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  “For the moment, risk aversion rules,” said  John Curran ,
senior vice president at the online foreign exchange dealer
CanadianForex Ltd. “We strengthened a little bit off the U.S.
numbers that were better than expected, but that was short-lived
because the greater concern is what’s going on in Europe, and
that’s going to weigh on the Canadian dollar.”  Bonds Fall  Canada’s government bonds declined. Yields on benchmark 10-
year debt rose two basis point to 2.21 percent as the price of
the 3.25 percent securities fell 18 cents to C$108.94. Yields
touched record lows of 1.994 percent on Sept. 23. Canadian
 government securities  have returned 5.63 percent this quarter
and 7.52 percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Commodity currencies got a boost earlier after German
lawmakers approved a strengthening of the euro-area rescue fund,
clearing the way for European officials to focus on which next
steps may be needed to stem the debt crisis.  “The European calendar remains challenging, with plenty of
event risk over the next month,” said  Stewart Hall , currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit,
in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Europe has a lot of
issues to tackle. The reality is, building out the treaty
infrastructure in order to really put these types of issues to
rest is going to take years.”  Canadian factory-product prices unexpectedly rose in August
as a weaker dollar boosted the domestic value of exported
automobiles, government figures showed. Manufacturers’ raw-
material costs fell for a fourth consecutive month.  The industrial product price index rose 0.5 percent in
August from July, Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said today.
Vehicle and other transportation equipment prices rose 1.7
percent, with the prices received for exports boosted by the
currency’s 2.8 percent decline. The industrial-price index would
have fallen 0.2 percent excluding the impact of the dollar.  The raw-materials price index fell 3.2 percent as crude oil
fell 7.5 percent on concern that global economic growth was
slowing, Statistics Canada said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  