-- 
Canada July Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-29T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/canada-july-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's employment, earnings, and hours report for July
released by  Statistics Canada .  In July, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees increased 0.1% from the previous month to
$872.70. On a year-over-year basis, average weekly
earnings grew by 2.2%. This was the slowest earnings
growth since January 2010.  Year-to-year change in average weekly hours and average
weekly earnings  The 2.2% year-over-year growth in average weekly
earnings reflects a number of factors, such as wage growth
and changes in the composition of employment by industry,
by occupation and by level of job experience.  The decrease in the average hours worked per week
contributed to the slower growth in earnings in July. The
average workweek declined from 33.0 hours in July 2010 to
32.8 hours in July 2011, down 0.6%, with fewer hours
worked across the goods and services sectors. Compared
with the previous month, average weekly hours were down
0.3%.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings rose in every province in the
12 months to July, led by Newfoundland and Labrador. The
slowest growth was in British Columbia, Nova Scotia and
Ontario.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
in July amounted to $879.70, up 6.2% from July 2010.
Newfoundland and Labrador has recorded year-over-year
growth in earnings above the national average every month
since December 2010.  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings by
province, July 2010 to July 2011  Average weekly earnings by industry  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings
exceeded the national average of 2.2% in four of  Canada 's
largest industrial sectors: retail trade; professional,
scientific and technical services; public administration
and construction. At the same time, earnings declined in
both manufacturing and accommodation and food services.  Year-to-year change in average weekly earnings in the 10
largest sectors, July 2010 to July 2011  The fastest rate of growth in average weekly earnings
occurred in retail trade in July. Earnings in this sector
rose by 4.4% to $524.51, with increases spread across
several industries.  The second fastest rate of increase was in
professional, scientific and technical services, where
average weekly earnings rose by 3.3% to $1,217.30 in the
12 months to July. This sector has seen steady earnings
growth since September 2008 (see the "Sector profile"
section of this release).  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  In July, non-farm payroll employment rose by 36,300. In
the 12 months to July, the number of payroll employees has
increased by 231,600 (+1.6%).  The monthly increase was spread across a number of
sectors, including educational services; construction;
administrative and support services; health care and
social assistance; accommodation and food services; and
professional, scientific and technical services. At the
same time, there were declines in public administration as
well as retail trade.  On a year-over-year basis, the fastest job growth was
in mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction, where
payroll employment increased by 8.5% (+16,000). Most of
this growth, however, occurred over the first eight months
of the period, with employment in the sector edging down
since April 2011.  Since July 2010, there was also above-average growth in
the number of employees in construction (+3.8%);
professional, scientific and technical services (+2.5%);
health care and social assistance (+2.2%); and public
administration (+1.7%).  Sector profile: Professional, scientific and technical
services  From time to time, this release profiles an industrial
sector with a notable trend in earnings, hours or
employment. The profile for July 2011 examines the
professional, scientific and technical services sector
because of its trend of faster-than-average growth in
earnings and employment over the past two years.  Payroll employment in professional, scientific and
technical services, January 2008 to July 2011  In July, 778,800 employees worked in professional,
scientific and technical services, making it the eighth
largest sector. Architectural, engineering and related
services accounts for the largest share (24%), followed
closely by computer systems design and related services
(21%). Others include: accounting, tax preparation,
bookkeeping and payroll services; management, scientific
and technical consulting; legal services; scientific
research and development; as well as advertising, public
relations and related services.  Like many sectors, professional, scientific and
technical services experienced a notable decline during
the 2008/2009 economic downturn. After hitting an
employment peak in October 2008, the number of employees
in that sector fell 5.3% until September 2009, a much
steeper decline than the 2.4% decrease for all sectors
combined. Most of the industries within this sector had
job declines during the downturn, with the exception of
scientific, research and development services and legal
services.  From September 2009 to July 2011, payroll employment in
professional, scientific and technical services grew by
4.7%, almost returning to its pre-downturn levels. This
compares with overall payroll employment growth of 3.2%
over the same period.  Over the previous 12 months, the most notable job gains
within this sector have been in architectural, engineering
and related services (+7.4%); advertising and public
relations (+4.6%); and computer systems design and related
services (+3.8%). At the same time, there were declines in
scientific research and development services (-2.8%) and
management, scientific and technical consulting (-2.7%).  Average weekly earnings in the professional, scientific
and technical services sector have been increasing
steadily since 2008. In July 2011, average weekly earnings
of $1,217.30 were the third highest among all sectors,
following mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction as
well as utilities.  In the 12 months to July, earnings in professional,
scientific and technical services grew by 3.3%, with the
largest growth in management, scientific and technical
consulting; and architectural, engineering and related
services and "other" professional, scientific and
technical services.  Average weekly hours worked by employees in
professional, scientific and technical services declined
by 0.8% to 35.4 hours in July from 35.7 hours 12 months
earlier. The average workweek in this sector was above the
all-sector average of 32.8 hours in July.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is
a business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key
objective is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of
earnings, the number of jobs and hours worked by detailed
industry at the national, provincial and territorial
level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates
from its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a
household survey whose main objective is to divide the
working-age population into three mutually exclusive
groups: the employed (including the self-employed),
unemployed and not in the labour force. This survey is the
official source for the  unemployment rate  and collects
data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all those
in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological
differences, estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do
differ from time to time. However, the trends in the data
are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as 'other employees' category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses which could not be
classified to a North American Industrial Classification
System code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses which could not be classified to a North
American Industrial Classification System code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  Data on the education sector  Changes in payroll employment in education during the
summer months can be affected by changes in payment
schedules and school-year calendars. Month-to-month
changes should therefore be interpreted with caution, and
more attention given to long-term trends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  