-- 
CapitaMalls Plans $1 Billion Investment in Chinese Mall, Office Venture

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-29T02:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/capitamalls-plans-1-billion-chinese-mall-office-joint-venture.html
CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA)  said it
agreed to form a venture to invest 6.7 billion yuan ($1.05
billion) in a shopping mall and office development in the
eastern Chinese city of Suzhou to expand in its biggest market
by assets.  The development will include a retail mall and two office
towers, and will be jointly owned by Suzhou Industrial Park
Jinji Lake Urban Development, the master developer of the city’s
business district, the Singapore-based retail property owner
said in a statement today.  “This project bears out our strategy to capitalize on our
strengths and entrench our presence in the cities and regions
that we are already in,” Lim Beng Chee, CapitaMalls’s chief
executive officer, said in the  Singapore  exchange statement.  The company is expanding in  China , which makes up 44
percent of its S$6.19 billion ($4.8 billion) of assets, to tap
on the nation’s economic growth and retail sales. Demand for
Chinese retail space helped drive a 42 percent surge in
commercial real estate investments in the country last year,
according to  Cushman & Wakefield , a New York-based real estate
services firm.  Construction for the 310,000 square-meter (3.3 million
square-foot) project is expected to start next year and complete
within four years, CapitaMalls said. The mall will account for
81 percent of the space, it said.  The stock dropped 1.2 percent to S$1.19 as of 10:35 a.m. in
Singapore trading.  CapitaMalls said it picked Suzhou for its prospects as
China’s fifth-largest city by gross domestic product and
proximity to  Shanghai  via a 30-minute train ride. The company is
a unit of  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s biggest developer.  CapitaMalls, which developed ION Orchard in Singapore, has
55 shopping retail properties in China, including the Raffles
City developments in Beijing and Shanghai.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  