-- 
CBSX Plans to Buy National Stock Exchange, Getting New Venue

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-29T19:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/cbsx-plans-to-buy-national-stock-exchange-getting-new-venue-2-.html
CBOE Stock Exchange, the equity
market owned by the biggest U.S. options platform and a group of
brokers, agreed to buy National Stock Exchange Inc. for an
undisclosed price.  National Stock Exchange, or NSX, will remain a separate
market from CBOE Stock Exchange, or CBSX, which is owned by
Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and companies including Cowen
Group Inc., Susquehanna International Group LLP and Interactive
Brokers Group Inc., according to a statement.  U.S. exchange operators have acquired rivals in the past
six years, maintaining them as separate markets to offer pricing
plans and incentives to attract different kinds of traders. NYSE
Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in  New York  each own three
U.S. stock venues, while Bats Global Markets in Lenexa,  Kansas ,
and Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC have
two each. CBSX is the smallest of 13 exchanges and NSX is the
fourth-smallest, based on data from Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  “We’re essentially replicating what other larger markets
are able to offer people, which is multiple price points and
routing strategies,”  David Harris , chief executive officer of
CBSX, said in a phone interview. “Our objective is to maintain
the profitability of CBSX and bring NSX into profitability.”  Market Share  NSX traded 0.55 percent of U.S. equities in August, while
CBSX had 0.1 percent of the market, data compiled by Rosenblatt
showed. Nasdaq Stock Market, NYSE Arca, the New York Stock
Exchange and an exchange run by Bats Global Markets accounted
for almost 57 percent of U.S. volume, according to the data. The
other nine  venues  had more than 16 percent, while trading away
from exchanges exceeded 27 percent of volume.  “Exchange groups want to operate multiple markets so that
they can experiment with market structures and fee schedules
that appeal to different client segments,” Justin Schack,
managing director for market structure analysis at Rosenblatt,
said in an e-mail. He said some traders focus on the rebates
exchanges give them for submitting bids and offers while others
consider it more important to pay lower trading fees. “You
can’t do both of those things on one platform,” he said.  Harris said profitability is more important to CBSX than
market share. CBSX was profitable last year for the first time
“while being very tiny,” he said. CBOE owns slightly less than
half of CBSX, which began trading in 2007, with the rest of the
company in the hands of units or affiliates of nine brokerages.  Other Markets  The purchase gives  CBSX  a brokerage that can route orders
from the exchange to other markets. CBSX currently uses
securities companies to perform this service, while NSX owns a
so-called routing broker, which Harris said is an “asset.”  Five or six executives at NSX including Joseph Rizzello,
the chief executive officer, will leave the company, Harris
said. The remaining staff of about 45 in operations, finance and
technology will shift to CBSX, he said. The deal, which must be
approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is
expected to close this year.  National Stock Exchange, formed in 1885 and based in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey , became the first electronic U.S. exchange in
1980. It was formerly called the Cincinnati Stock Exchange.
NSX’s owners include units of  Citigroup Inc.  Credit Suisse Group
AG, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., Harris said.
 Bloomberg Tradebook , which is owned by Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, is among NSX’s owners, he said.  ‘Seamless Transition’  “NSX felt it was in the best interests of its customers to
pursue an acquisition,” Rizzello wrote in the CBSX statement.
“We are confident that the acquisition by CBSX will be a
seamless transition and will enable NSX to continue to showcase
its strong infrastructure.”  NSX and the Chicago Stock Exchange are the only remaining
markets once known as regionals that competed for orders with
NYSE a decade ago. The Boston and Philadelphia stock exchanges
were bought by Nasdaq OMX while the Pacific exchange, now known
as NYSE Arca, is owned by  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “It’s long overdue,” Sang Lee, managing partner at
Boston-based Aite Group LLC, said of the NSX sale in a phone
interview. “It’s amazing both Chicago and National have lasted
this long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 