-- 
Chavez Appears on Venezuelan TV to Rebut Reports of Health Deterioration

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-09-29T20:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/chavez-hospitalized-for-kidney-failure-nuevo-herald-says-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
appeared on live television today to rebut media reports that
his health has deteriorated since he returned from a fourth
round of chemotherapy in Cuba.  Wearing a red sports top and a baseball cap, Chavez was
filmed with members of his Cabinet in the grounds of the
presidential palace, jogging and throwing a baseball.  El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish-language sister newspaper of
the Miami Herald, reported last night that Chavez was admitted
to a hospital in Caracas Sept. 27 and would undergo dialysis to
treat a possible  kidney failure . The report cited people close
to the situation whom it didn’t name. Chavez dismissed the
report and said he was keen to start campaigning for elections
scheduled for October next year.  “I am my own answer and the life I will live from now on
will be the response -- the President Chavez who’s coming in
2012, 2013, 2019,” Chavez said.  The former paratrooper had a baseball-sized tumor removed
by doctors in Cuba in June, though he has provided few details
about the state of his health or the type of cancer he has. He
said today that the operation left him with 40 stitches, that
his kidneys haven’t been affected and that people who say he has
 colon cancer  are wrong.  “I had cancer in a ball that was extracted,” he said.
“Now it’s the colon, that it’s destroyed, now the kidneys -it’s
all false.” Chavez refused to say what type of cancer he has.  Not Immortal  Chavez needs to squash the speculation over his health to
stop people “jockeying for position in terms of what comes
next,” Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of the
Americas, said in a phone interview from  Washington . “If he can
show he’s still vibrant, still vital and in good health then
that helps to damp down that type of speculation.”  Recent tests have shown that his cholesterol and hemoglobin
levels are good and that his white blood cell count is rising,
Chavez said.  In a phone call to state television earlier today, Chavez
said he hopes to resume his normal working routine soon.  “I am undergoing a rigorous timetable of treatment,”
Chavez said. “However, my feet are already itching to get out
to do battle.”  Since being diagnosed, the 57-year-old leader has reduced
public appearances and suspended his “Alo Presidente” Sunday
talk show, on which he sometimes spoke for more than eight
hours. Venezuela and  Iran  last week agreed to postpone a visit
by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 