-- 
Chef Adria Worried by Economy, Hails Cheap Meals After El Bulli

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/chef-adria-worried-by-economy-hails-cheap-meals-after-el-bulli.html
Ferran Adria, the Spanish chef who
turned an isolated seaside restaurant into a destination for
gourmets the world over, studies a bowl of  Paxo .  “What is it?” he asks. The supermarket sage-and-onion
stuffing is made by mixing it with water and can be popped in a
microwave. Adria, 49, is known for complex creations that
combine culinary and artistic vision with immense technical
skill, such as exploding olives. (What looks like the skin is
really a gel that collapses when you bite.) If the dish were a
painting, it might be called, “This is not an olive.”  So how come the chef from El Bulli -- named the world’s
best restaurant a record five times -- is enjoying lunch at the
 Gilbert Scott , an unfussy British brasserie in  London ? The
answer is that after closing El Bulli on July 30, he’s traveling
the world promoting the simple pleasures of family meals.  “Most people don’t earn more than 1,000 euros ($1,362) to
1,200 euros a month, so each day they can only spend a few euros
on a meal,” Adria says over his meal of oysters and grouse.
“And if they get home at 7 p.m., they can’t spend hours cooking
a pizza from scratch. They’d be asleep before it is ready.  “Why are people not cooking at home? There are more and
more food blogs and TV shows and hundreds of magazines and books
about food. What are we doing wrong? We haven’t been honest
enough: We have to give normal people normal food.”  Normal food from the man who served a 48-course menu of
crazy concoctions to mark the end of El Bulli, which will reopen
as a culinary foundation focused on creativity? That sounds like
the Charlie Sheen guide to celibacy and abstinence.  Simple Cooking  But hold on: Adria is about to publish “The Family Meal:
Home Cooking With Ferran Adria,” featuring recipes for three-
course dinners that ordinary people can prepare without spending
too much time or money. The book is strictly practical, with a
lot of details on elements such as measurements, and even
photographs of the equipment you need.  The book is based on recipes for staff meals at El Bulli,
and each repast should only cost a few euros a person. Adria
identifies his own favorite as Meal 31: Waldorf salad, noodle
soup with mussels; melon & mint soup with pink grapefruit.  Adria says the slowdown in the economy should help everyone
focus on spending wisely and eating as well as they can.  “I have many friends who work in the economic field and
nobody is able to tell what is going on,” he says. “It’s total
madness. When it comes to  Spain , it’s even crazier. Four years
ago, we were an economic model and now we’re a disaster.”  Fast Talker  Adria is engaging company. He speaks rapidly (through an
interpreter) and has so much to say that lunch is over far too
quickly. He sits back in his chair, dressed casually in black,
his chin spiked with stubble, and describes the life he is
leading while taking a few months away from the kitchen.  “I’ve just been to  China ,” he says. “The food is the
most important cuisine in the world. There are 80,000 different
dishes. China, in that sense, is going to be a boulder. It’s
just going to roll over everything.  “Then I was in  Peru  and that’s probably going to be the
next most important revolution in culinary history. They’re
using gastronomy as an instrument for social and economic
development. And how about the Arab world? The first country to
use gastronomy as a vehicle for communication with the Western
world will have an extraordinary experience.  India ’s another
interesting country, and then there’s  Southeast Asia .”  Adria takes time to enjoy his lunch, dipping his spoon into
my mulligatawny soup (an Anglo-Indian dish), wanting to know
what it is. He pronounces the food very good, though he’s not
having any more Paxo -- a fond childhood memory for many
Britons. He also leaves the Yorkshire puddings.  He signs my copy of his book with a flourish: “Good Food
Feeds the Soul.” I feel better already.  “The Family Meal: Home Cooking With Ferran Adria” is
published by Phaidon on Oct. 3 at $29.95, 19.95 pounds and 24.95
euros. To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 