-- 
Chile August Industrial Output Beats Estimates, Rises 1.7%

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-29T15:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/chile-august-industrial-output-beats-estimates-rises-1-7-1-.html
Chile ’s industrial production beat
analyst estimates and rose 1.7 percent in August from the year
before, indicating economic growth in the world’s leading copper
producer may not be slowing as quickly as forecast.  Industrial output growth accelerated from 0.7 percent in
July, compared with 4 percent in June and 9.7 percent in May,
the National Statistics Institute said in a report today. The
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
production to remain unchanged. Industrial sales rose 2.9
percent in August, the institute said.  “This makes the possibility of an interest rate cut a bit
more remote,” Banco Falabella economist Flavio Magnasco said by
phone from Santiago. “The economy is more dynamic.”  Interest rates  are at a “normal” range and are coherent
with keeping inflation anchored around the central bank’s 3
percent target, bank President Jose De Gregorio said in Santiago
today. The bank, which has kept key rates unchanged for the past
three months, is monitoring financial markets daily and is
prepared to respond if the economy deteriorates, he said.  The peso strengthened to 514 to the dollar at 10:23 a.m.
New York time from 518.98 before the industrial data was
published. The peso will trade at 500 per dollar in three
months, according to the median estimate of 52 investors and
traders in a central bank survey published yesterday.  Copper Output  Production of rubber and plastic grew 18 percent in August,
followed by a 4.3 percent gain in food and beverage output and a
1.7 percent increase in machinery manufacturing, the institute
said. Paper production fell 2.9 percent and copper output
dropped 8.7 percent to 427,420 metric tons on lower mineral
grades and strikes.  Copper output will decline in 2011 after snowstorms and
strikes hit mines owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and state-owned
Codelco, Mining Minister Hernan de Solminihac said in a Sept. 5
interview in Sydney. The metal accounts for more than half of
Chile’s exports and about one-third of fiscal revenue.  Retail sales rose 9.1 percent from last year, down from a
9.6 percent increase in July, the institute said today.
Supermarket sales growth slowed to 5.6 percent in August from
8.3 percent in July, it said.  Chile’s economic growth is showing signs of slowing after
gains in the Imacec index, the central bank’s proxy for gross
domestic product, decelerated to 4 percent in July from 6.2
percent in June and 7.5 percent in May, De Gregorio said in a
presentation posted on the bank website.  Moderation  “Activity and demand data show moderation in the pace of
expansion,” the central bank President said. “However, the
labor market remains tight and credit continues to grow.”  Salaries grew 5.9 percent in July from last year and the
 unemployment rate  in the three months through July increased to
7.5 percent from 7.2 percent in the month earlier period, the
institute said on Aug. 31.  Gross domestic product will grow 6.5 percent this year and
4.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of 65
economists surveyed Sept. 9 by the central bank.  The economists forecast policy makers will keep their key
interest rate unchanged at 5.25 percent through the end of this
year before reducing borrowing costs to 5 percent by February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 