-- 
Chile Rate Swaps Fall After Central Bank Says It’s Ready to Act

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-29T19:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/chile-rate-swaps-fall-after-central-bank-says-it-s-ready-to-act.html
Chilean interest-rate swap rates
tumbled after central bank officials said they were prepared to
act “aggressively” to fend off an external crisis.  The one-year interest-rate swap fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage points, to 4.44 percent at 3:15 p.m. New York
time. The six-month swap rate fell 10 basis points to 4.83
percent. The peso closed little changed at 512.78 per  U.S.
dollar , from 512.86 yesterday.  Central bank policy maker Rodrigo Vergara yesterday said
the bank has “the tools, the will and the space to act.” His
comments were echoed today by bank President Jose De Gregorio,
who said policy makers’ base case scenario that rates would
remain unchanged shouldn’t be interpreted as a commitment and
that the bank was prepared to change rates at any time.  “They’re preparing the stage for a rate cut,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in
Santiago. “The market hadn’t been expecting that in October,
but now it’s moving towards a 25 basis point cut, reaching 3.75
percent in June or July.”  On Sept. 26, swaps traders were discounting 25 basis-point
rate cuts in December, January and February, with further
quarter-point reductions in April and June, leaving the rate at
4 percent in a year’s time, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Today, the three-month rate at 5.11 percent suggests the
market expects a 25 basis-point cut in November, the six-month
rate at 4.83 percent suggests further quarter-point cuts in
January, March and April. One-year swaps at 4.44 percent implies
the central  bank rate  could reach 3.75 percent in July.  The peso, on course for its steepest monthly decline since
2008, may keep depreciating as fading global growth expectations
weigh on prices for commodities, De Gregorio said today. Copper
makes up more than half of Chile’s exports, so lower copper
prices damage the country’s terms of trade and cheapen the peso.  ‘Weaker World’  “Obviously with lower commodity prices in this weaker
world, some depreciation of the peso is to be expected,” he
said today.  Concern that the European debt crisis may trigger a global
economic downturn sent copper for December delivery down as much
as 5.1 percent today.  Inflation-linked swap rates also fell. The one-year swap
rate in unidades de fomento,  Chile ’s inflation-linked accounting
unit, dropped three basis points to 1.80 percent. One-year
breakeven inflation slid 4 basis points to 2.59 percent.  Chile’s central bank paid a yield of 5.12 percent on a sale
of 10-year bonds today, just three basis points more than the
seven-year low 5.09 percent yield paid on Aug. 30. Demand for
the bonds was the lowest since at least July 2004, with bids
worth 161 percent of the total sold.  The bank sold five-year bonds at a yield of 4.93 percent,
the lowest since May 2009. Banks bought 87 percent of the five-
year bonds and 48 percent of the 10-year bonds.  Peso Forwards  Foreign investors in the Chilean-peso forwards market
trimmed positions against the currency on Sept. 27 for the first
time since Sept. 2. They reduced their net bet on the dollar to
$4.8 billion from $5 billion on Sept. 26, according to central
bank data  published  today.  Falling bond yields in Chile are evidence that the central
bank’s change in bias at its Aug. 18 meeting has had an effect
on rate expectations,  De Gregorio  said today. The bank dropped a
phrase saying it expected further rate increases from its
communiqué, which has already meant cheaper financing for
Chileans, De Gregorio said today in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  