-- 
China’s Space Lab Launch Closes Gap With U.S. Dependent on Russian Rockets

-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-29T16:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/chinese-launch-of-space-lab-module-aims-to-close-technology-gap-with-u-s-.html
China  launched its first space
laboratory module yesterday in a step toward a manned station
orbiting Earth, two months after the final  shuttle  mission
halted the U.S.’s ability to put people into orbit.  The Tiangong-1 blasted off 9:16 p.m. local time, according
the official Xinhua News Agency. President  Hu Jintao  watched
from the control center in Beijing and Premier  Wen Jiabao  was at
the launch site in Jiuquan,  Gansu province . The liftoff is part
of a program that aims to put a man on the moon by 2020 and,
together with high-speed trains, the Beijing Olympics and the
world’s biggest nuclear-power expansion, serves as a marker for
the nation’s emergence as a global power.  “China sees space as one of the things that will confirm
‘we’re now on a par with Western countries, we’ve entered the
club,’” said James Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for
International and Strategic Studies in Washington who
specializes in technology and security. “It’s prestige, it’s
catching up with the West and it’s exploring ways to overcome
the U.S. information advantage.”  Yesterday’s launch helps cement China’s lead over emerging
nations such as  India , Iran and  South Korea  that are pumping
money into matching rocket and docking technology pioneered by
the  Soviet Union  and U.S. five decades ago. As China expands,
the U.S. is scaling back on routine manned missions: President
 Barack Obama  last year scrapped plans to return to the moon,
setting a goal instead of making a “leap into the future” of
 deep-space travel .  The U.S. move away from “chokingly expensive” manned
flight is a more sustainable model, said Joan Johnson-Freese, a
professor at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport,  Rhode
Island . Still, with the shuttle grounded, the U.S. is reliant on
 Russia  to fly astronauts to the International Space Station
until commercial operators can fill the gap.  Lost Leadership  “It would not be good for China to move forward in the
2020s with a manned lunar program and eventually be ferrying
individuals to and from the lunar surface with the U.S. program
grounded,” she said in a e-mailed response to questions.
“Ceding human spaceflight to the Chinese over the long term
would have significant strategic leadership implications.”  China, which made its first successful manned flight in
2003 aboard the  Shenzhou spacecraft , plans to put a capsule on
the moon in 2013 and have the technology for a manned mission in
2020, Xu Shijie, a member of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference said on March 3 in Beijing. The country
plans to launch its own orbital station in about 2020.  The module launched yesterday will be used to practice
docking techniques needed before moving to the next phase of
building a station, according to the website of  China Manned
Space Engineering , the country’s space agency.  Military Shadow  While China’s achievements are lauded at home, a lack of
transparency over budgets and possible military applications of
space technology have raised concerns overseas.  CMSE  is led by
Chang Wanguan, a member of China’s top military body, the
Central Military Commission.  “There’s no separation between their ostensibly civilian
program and their military program,” said  Dean Cheng , a
research fellow on Chinese security at the  Heritage Foundation ,
a  Washington  think tank that describes its mission as designing
and promoting conservative public policies.  The Chinese government is “convinced this is the next
phase of major competition,” said Huang Jing, a professor at
the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the  National
University  of  Singapore . China believes “whoever dominates in
outer space will dominate in military warfare.”  Benefit for All  The government’s intentions are entirely peaceful, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing yesterday.
China aims “to contribute to peaceful utilization of space for
the benefit of all human kind,” he said.  The more that can be done to increase the civilian
component of China’s space program the better, Mark Stokes,
executive director of the Arlington, Virginia-based  Project 2049
Institute , said by telephone. The U.S. should find ways to
cooperate without aiding the military side and is capable of
parsing the two, he said.  Space “is a metric of national power,” said Stokes, whose
organization focuses on policies promoting security in  Asia ,
according to its website. “If this would make China feel better
about itself, if it gives it more confidence, gives it more
security, gives it more pride, it’s better than some other ways
of doing that.”  The U.S. government aims to encourage responsible behavior
in space, Gregory Schulte, deputy assistant secretary of defense
for space policy, told lawmakers in May. “Space is
‘‘increasingly congested, contested and competitive,’’ he said,
according to a transcript of the hearing. ‘‘A more cooperative,
predictable environment enhances our national security and
discourages destabling behavior.’’  Space Shower  China in 2007 blew up one of its own satellites in a test
of its ability to disrupt global communications networks. The
explosion spread thousands of pieces of debris in what the
 European Space Agency  described as ‘‘by far the worst break-up
event in space history.’’ The impact of a 10-centimeter fragment
of debris on a spacecraft or station ‘‘will most likely entail a
catastrophic disintegration of the target,’’ according to the
agency’s website.  The U.S. Navy in 2008 used a  Raytheon Co. SM-3  missile to
destroy a malfunctioning spy satellite that was headed for earth
loaded with toxic chemicals. The strike was timed to ensure
debris burned up on re-entry.  The challenge for the U.S. isn’t just getting China to
agree to rules. Dozens of countries claim space programs, though
some -- like  North Korea  and  Iran  -- use that as a cover for
missile development, Lewis said.  ‘‘Governments need to begin discussing space security more
directly,” James Clay Moltz, who teaches at the Naval
Postgraduate School in Monterey and is author of the forthcoming
book “Asia’s Space Race,” wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “A shooting war in space is in no one’s interest. We
need to start talking about conflict prevention, keep-out zones,
and stronger norms against destructive activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Richardson in  Hong Kong  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  