-- 
China Seen Needing ‘Huge Effort’ to Meet Increasing Corn Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-29T06:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/china-seen-needing-huge-effort-to-meet-increasing-corn-demand.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
user and producer of corn, will need a “huge effort” to meet
growing demand as consumers eat more meat products, the Ministry
of Agriculture said.  Consumption of corn, including use in  animal feed  and
industrial products, will increase significantly and the
government must closely monitor the industry, Vice Minister Chen
Xiaohua said at a press conference in Beijing today.  Corn costs in China have surged to near a record as high
pork prices stoked expansion of hog herds. Potential shortages
may boost imports, supporting prices in  Chicago , which have
slumped 18 percent this month on concern global growth may slow.  “To maintain balanced supply and demand for corn, we must
fundamentally develop production,” Chen said. The government
will also “control and curb” industrial processing, he said.  China’s corn harvest may climb 3.5 percent from last year
to 179 million metric tons, while planted area increased 2.8
percent, researcher Cngrain.com said on its  website  Sept. 21.  Annual Imports may surge to 20 million metric tons in 10
years if domestic output fails to increase adequately, Fan Zhenyu, an executive at the country’s biggest grain trader Cofco
Ltd., said last week. Imports last year were 1.6 million tons,
the most in more than 10 years, customs data show.  China is also “experimenting” with the use of genetically
modified corn to help lift output, Chen said. The government has
already approved the safety of the strain, he said, without
elaborating.  --William Bi. Editor: James Poole  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: William Bi in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or  wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  