-- 
China Internet Stocks Fall in New York on U.S. Investigation

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-29T21:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/china-stocks-fall-in-u-s-trading-on-khuzami-s-probe-comments.html
Chinese Internet stocks tumbled in
 New York  trading after a top U.S. securities regulator said the
 Department of Justice  is reviewing allegations of accounting
fraud at firms operating out of the Asian nation.  Sina Corp., owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, fell 9.7 percent and Baidu Inc., operator of China’s most
popular online search engine, dropped 9.2 percent after
Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  made the comments in an interview with Reuters that was
published today.  “There are parts of the Justice Department that are
actively engaged in this area,” Khuzami told Reuters in
comments about allegations of possible fraud that were confirmed
by  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC.  Laura Sweeney , a
Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment on whether
criminal authorities are involved.  At least four Chinese Internet companies fell sharply
today, triggering an SEC short-selling restriction that forces
traders who want to bet on a further drop to wait after the
stocks fell 10 percent from the prior day’s closing level.
 Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online-video site, sank 18
percent, the most this year.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  fell 4.7 percent
after losing 11 percent earlier in the day.  Sina’s shares slid to an eight-month low of $72.23 at 4
p.m. in New York, after plummeting as much as 16 percent
earlier. Baidu’s American depositary receipts declined to
$110.29. They earlier lost as much as 12 percent.  Intensified Scrutiny  In the past year, regulators have intensified scrutiny of
China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges amid concern that
the firms weren’t complying with accounting standards. The SEC
and exchanges have delisted or halted trading in more than a
dozen such companies this year, and the agency has sued firms
and auditors over bogus disclosures. The SEC only has power to
file civil claims for securities law violations, while the
 Justice Department  can file criminal charges.  The SEC’s investigation has focused on so-called reverse
mergers, in which closely held firms buy shell companies that
allow them to sell shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that
would surround an initial public offering. None of the four
Internet companies affected by the SEC restriction today were
listed through reverse mergers.  VIE Structure  The slump in Internet companies was also caused by
investors’ “fear” about their variable-interest entity listing
structure, according to Jeff Papp, a Lisle, Illinois-based
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc. In a VIE arrangement,
a Chinese entity holds the license needed to operate a website,
and foreign investors exert control over it through a set of
contracts, rather than a direct ownership stake.  “People are extrapolating that because of a non-normal
listing structure that automatically means there’s something bad
there,” Papp said, adding the four companies imposed with the
SEC’s short-sale curb were all listed through the VIE structure.  China’s Commerce Ministry is studying ways to regulate
foreign investments through VIE structures, ministry spokesman
Shen Danyang said Sept. 20.  Legitimacy  “Investors outside of China can face challenges fully
understanding the regulatory landscape -- and the VIE is one of
those structures whose legitimacy has not been set in stone
yet,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at New York-based Paragon
Capital LP who invests in U.S.-listed Chinese stocks, wrote in
an e-mail.  The big Internet names are especially vulnerable to selloff
pressure because of their higher valuations to peers, according
to Papp at Oberweis Asset. There is “continued aversion to
risk,” he said. “High-beta names are just not in favor in the
current environment.”  Sina’s shares are traded at 144 times its trailing
earnings, compared with 13 for stocks in the New York Stock
Exchange Arca China Index, which dropped 0.5 percent today. The
multiple for Baidu is 50.  SEC officials have said they can’t adequately police the
firms in part because the Chinese government bars U.S.
regulators from inspecting auditors based in that country.
Officials from the two countries have met in recent months to
discuss the issue.  The SEC this month filed an enforcement action against
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.’s  China  affiliates for failing to
produce documents related to an investigation of Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd, which said last month that Deloitte
quit because of errors in the company’s financial records. The
Deloitte affiliates have said they cooperated with the SEC as
much as possible under Chinese law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  