-- 
Colombia Heading Toward ‘Neutral’ Interest Rate, Minister Echeverry Says

-- B y   M a r t a   M a r i n o   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-09-29T16:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/colombia-heading-toward-neutral-interest-rate-minister-echeverry-says.html
Colombia  is heading toward a
“neutral”  interest-rate  level and needs to take into account
economic uncertainty in Europe at its central bank meeting
tomorrow, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said today.  “We will have a sensible policy. We have had a very
conservative approach,” Echeverry said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  London . “We’re heading towards an
interest rate that is kind of neutral.”  Colombia’s central bank unexpectedly kept its benchmark
overnight rate unchanged at 4.5 percent in August for the first
time in seven months on concern global market turmoil could
spread to the Andean nation. Echeverry, one of the seven members
of the board, said policy makers will “seriously” consider the
European debt crisis and the situation in  Greece  during their
vote tomorrow.  Inflation is “under check” at 3.2 percent, within the
government’s 2 percent to 4 percent range and close to the
target of 3 percent, Echeverry said today. He said Colombia
won’t have any gasoline or consumer-price “shocks” as
inflation is “behaving.”  Echeverry said he expects gross domestic product to rise
5.5 percent this year, after expanding 5 percent in the first
half. The government wants to maintain 5 percent growth in 2012,
though the 4.5 percent expected by analysts would be “OK,” he
said. The increase in GDP will “depend strongly on what happens
abroad,” he said.  Ideal Peso Level  Colombia’s peso has fallen 7 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  since the end of July, as investors dumped emerging
market assets on signs the world recovery was faltering. The
peso was previously overvalued and is now at an ideal level
after the recent “correction,” Echeverry said.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 1,913.33 to the dollar at
12:04 p.m. New York time.  “I like it a lot,” he said of the current  exchange rate .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Marino in London at 
 mmarino4@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  