-- 
Commodity Ship Rates Fall as Demand for Brazilian Ore Weakens

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-29T16:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/commodity-ship-rates-fall-as-demand-for-brazilian-ore-weakens.html
The cost of hiring iron ore-
carrying capesize ships fell a third day in  London  as demand
declined for the vessels to ship the raw material to Asia from
 Brazil .  Rents for the vessels, which carry at least 150,000 metric
tons of cargo, slid 2.4 percent to $27,445 a day, according to
the  Baltic Exchange  in London today. The Baltic Dry Index, a
wider measure of commodity transportation costs spanning smaller
ships, also declined a third day, dropping 0.4 percent to 1,913
points. Capesize ships are also known by the industry as capes.  “There’s less buying from  China , Japan and Korea of
Brazilian iron ore,” Georgi Slavov, head of freight and basic
resources research at ICAP Shipping International Ltd., the
largest broker of trades between banks, said by phone. “Capes
are under pressure.”  Capesize earnings advanced almost threefold since the start
of August on speculation China, the world’s largest steel-
producing nation, purchased more  iron ore  from Brazil and
Australia to compensate for reduced supplies from India. The
number of new vessels launched will be the lowest for a quarter
since the one ending June 2009, according to data from Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker.  Vessel supply is little changed from recent weeks, while
Asian buyers are buying more iron ore from Australia at the
expense of Brazil, Slavov said.  Panamax Ships  Panamax ships, the largest to navigate the Panama Canal,
advanced 1.4 percent to $13,647 a day, according to the Baltic
Exchange. Smaller supramaxes rose 0.4 percent to $15,654 a day
while handysizes added 1.8 percent to $10,689.  Demand for panamaxes to load grains from the suppliers in
the  Gulf of Mexico  has yet to accelerate because Russian and
Ukrainian exporters shipped more cargoes once an export ban and
quotas ended, according to Slavov.  Twenty-five capesize ships were delivered from builders in
 Asia  since July 1, down from 62 in the previous quarter and a
record 66 in the first three months of 2011, according to data
up to yesterday from Clarkson. That’s the lowest number since
the second quarter of 2009, when 21 new ships entered service,
the records show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  