-- 
Commodities Advance, Paring Quarterly Decline After German Vote on Fund

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-09-29T20:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/commodities-set-for-worst-quarter-since-2008-as-debt-risk-threatens-growth.html
Commodities advanced, paring the
biggest quarterly drop since 2008, as German lawmakers approved
an expansion of the European bailout fund, easing concern that
the debt crisis will escalate.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
climbed 0.5 percent to settle at 606.79 at 3:47 p.m. New York
time, led by an agriculture rally. Sugar and hogs posted the
biggest gains since July, and crude oil closed above $82 a
barrel. The dollar dropped against the euro.  The lower house of  Germany ’s parliament granted the bailout
fund powers to buy bonds in secondary markets, enable bank
recapitalizations and offer precautionary credit lines. The GSCI
has slumped 9.3 percent since the end of June, the most since
the fourth quarter of 2008, on speculation that a European
default would lead to recession, curbing commodity demand.  “What you have in place today is a little bit more
optimism surrounding Germany’s vote to rescue Greece and their
debt problem,” Luis Rangel, a vice president of commodity
derivatives at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said
in a telephone interview. “That has brought the dollar down,
and it’s encouraging a little bit of risk to come back into some
of these markets.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed as much as 2.2
percent after government reports showed that the  U.S. economy  in
the second quarter grew faster than estimated and jobless claims
last week fell more than forecast.  “The better jobless numbers did work to help push the
equity markets higher,” Sterling Smith, a senior market analyst
at Country Hedging Inc. in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , said in a
telephone interview. “That applied some pressure to the dollar.
That in turn did let some support move into the commodity
space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 