-- 
Compass 2011 Sales Growth Tops Estimates on New Business

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-09-29T12:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/compass-2011-sales-growth-tops-estimates-on-new-business-1-.html
Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the world’s
largest catering company, said sales growth probably beat
estimates this year because of new business in the Americas,
 China  and  India .  Revenue excluding currency effects or sales at operations
owned less than a year will rise 5 percent in 12 months through
tomorrow, the Chertsey, England-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 4.4 percent median increase estimated
by three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We’ve got really positive trends on winning contracts and
also feel pretty good about retention rates,” said Chief
Executive Officer Richard Cousins in a phone interview. The 4
percent growth rate of the fourth quarter is “not a bad guide”
for 2012, he added.  Compass, which provides food to delegates at Group of 20
meetings, has increased the proportion of sales it generates in
the U.S. and other non-European markets, including  Brazil  and
China. The company said economic conditions in parts of mainland
 Europe  were “challenging.”  “When you are exposed to countries like Mexico, Colombia,
Brazil, Turkey, India, China, Russia, you naturally grow in
those countries at anywhere between 10 and 30 percent, whilst in
the U.K. and Europe you tend to naturally grow at half a handful
percent,” said Cousins. “It is a reflection of the change in
the global economic balance.”  In North America, Compass said it expects organic revenue
growth for the year of about 7 percent, and 9 percent in its
rest of the world division, which includes  Latin America  and
China. In continental Europe, organic revenue growth for the
full year to be will be about 1 percent, while sales will
decline by about 1 percent in the U.K. and Ireland division.  The operating-profit margin for the full year is expected
to match last year’s figure, the company said. Compass is
scheduled to release fiscal 2011 earnings figures on Nov. 23.  Compass is interested in small to medium acquisitions and
will continue to look at food-service companies in developing
countries and support services in Europe and North America, said
Cousins.  The shares fell as much as 2.6 percent and traded down 1.8
percent at 520 pence as of 1:32 p.m. in  London . Compass has
fallen 11 percent in London this year, more than the 3.6 percent
decline for  Sodexo (SW)  in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  