-- 
Congress Nears Five-Year Deal to Buoy Flood Program

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-30T18:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/congress-nears-five-year-deal-to-buoy-underwater-flood-program.html
(Corrects Sept. 29 story starting in 21st paragraph to
indicate that Wicker proposal would apply only to federal
program.)  U.S. lawmakers may be nearing
agreement on a long-term extension of the National Flood
Insurance Program, giving hope to homebuilders, insurers and
real estate firms that three years of uncertainty may be coming
to a close.  The federal program, almost $18 billion in debt in the wake
of 2005 hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, has been caught in a
legislative tug-of-war between lawmakers in the House and Senate
that has caused three lapses in the program in as many years.  The current House and Senate proposals, however, have
attracted something otherwise in short supply in the current
Congress: bipartisan support. A five-year reauthorization could
clear the way for new home-building in flood-prone areas and
generate new business for insurers and reinsurers including
Swiss Re,  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and Travelers Cos.  “For the first time since the program expired, the House
and the Senate are essentially on the same page,” said Eli
Lehrer, a vice president at the Chicago-based Heartland
institute, a research and education group that promotes free-
market ideas. “On the big questions that have gummed things up
in the past, the bills appear extremely likely to have the same
things in them.”  Under the program, the government provides flood insurance
-- mostly in partnership with insurance companies -- for homes
and businesses in flood-prone regions. Policies in the riskiest
areas are subsidized at less than actuarially sound levels.  The insurance, mortgage and building industries are
lobbying hard for a long-term extension of the program, which
insures 5.6 million policies with premiums in force of $3.4
billion.  Lapses  Previous lapses have caused hardship for real estate
agents, homebuyers and homebuilders like  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) ,
KB Homes and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , which are already struggling with a
moribund housing market. A lapse in 2010 resulted in the delay
or cancellation of 47,000 home sales, according to a National
Association of Realtors survey.  “Here we are in the worst economy in a long time and
because of those gaps in the program a little over a year ago we
were shutting down perfectly good real estate closings when we
needed every one we could get our hands on for this economy,”
said Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican.  In the Democrat-controlled Senate, a draft measure gained
swift approval from the  Banking Committee  this month with
positive reviews from Republicans and Democrats alike. Notably,
senators chose to drop a provision that would have written off
the program’s $17.8 billion debt, something that has created
problems with  House Republicans  who have been looking to raise
the money to pay that debt down through changes to the program.  ‘Right Direction’  “It’s a complicated bill, but I think we’re going in the
right direction,” said Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the
committee’s top Republican.  While awaiting Senate approval, the two chambers are
working to finalize another short-term extension -- the 12th in
the past three years. The current extension expires tomorrow;
the new short-term extension would give lawmakers until Nov. 18
to reach a deal on the five-year renewal.  In the Republican-controlled House, the Financial Services
Committee unanimously approved a bill offered by Representative
 Judy Biggert , an Illinois Republican. The House then passed it
406-22, in a vote Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  pointed to in a recent interview as one of the foremost
accomplishments of his 10-month tenure as chairman.  Bachus also said the House and Senate measures are “90 to
95 percent” similar.  Country ‘Underwater’  “This country is underwater, literally, not having a flood
insurance bill,” said Bachus, whose state of Alabama was among
regions devastated by  Hurricane Katrina . “Having these short-
term extensions is costing the economy, it’s costing jobs and
it’s costing development.”  In addition to reauthorizing the program for five years,
Biggert’s  legislation  would allow premiums to rise toward
actuarially sound levels, link coverage limits to inflation and
phase in coverage requirements for those who fall in newly
designated flood zones. The bill would also establish a new
system for handling flood-plain mapping.  The long-term extension may reduce costs for insurers in
the NFIP’s Write Your Own program, which lets corporate partners
write and service policies backed by the government, Donna
Jallick, a vice president at Harleysville Insurance, said in
congressional testimony in March. Jallick, representing the
Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, said insurers
have suffered from “significant liability and vulnerabilities”
due to the lack of a long-term extension.  State Farm  A unit of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the
largest U.S. home insurer,  withdrew  from its NFIP partnership in
June 2010, citing the program’s instability. Allstate, the
second-largest provider of home coverage, and Travelers still
participate, according to FEMA’s  website .  President  Barack Obama , in a Sept. 19  proposal  sent to
Congress to pay for the administration’s jobs package, included
a statement of support for Biggert’s legislation, specifically
increasing premiums for different policy holders.  Obama and Biggert differed in what should be done with the
additional  $4.2 billion  in revenue raised by the changes. Obama
proposed the option of depositing the revenue in the
government’s general fund, which would allow it to be used for
the jobs program or to pay down the national debt. That idea
swiftly drew Republican opposition.  No Offsets  “Financial Services Committee Republicans should welcome
the Administration’s support for the House-passed reforms to the
NFIP, but strenuously oppose any effort to divert new NFIP
revenue to the General Fund to offset other spending,”
committee staff said in a Sept. 20 memo obtained by Bloomberg
News.  A few issues between the two chambers remain, particularly
the final shape of the Senate version. Senator  Roger Wicker , a
Mississippi Republican, has secured the support of Shelby and
Senate Banking chairman Tim Johnson of  South Dakota  to include
language that would address wind damage -- an area of contention
between the  insurance industry  and some lawmakers in the wake of
the 2005 storms.  Wicker’s proposal, which is expected to be included when
the measure is debated on the Senate floor, would create a
system in the program for allocating losses between wind and
water damage when properties are destroyed. The flood program
covers damage from water but not wind, a distinction that Wicker
and others have said is hard to make in the wake of a hurricane.  Differences  The House and Senate versions also differ in how much the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  should increase premiums per
year, as well as in a House provision that would put a limit on
the policies that can be directly administered by the program.  “Temporary funding considerations are always disruptive
for the market,” said Cosette Simon, head of government affairs
in the Americas at Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest
reinsurer. “People know we have to have change here.”  The emerging deal stands to benefit reinsurers like Swiss
Re and  Munich Re  that could regain a foothold in the market.
Reinsurers, which write policies for insurance companies to help
bear their risks, have been cut out of the market since the
federal program began in 1968.  Included in the Senate bill is a provision that would
require FEMA to conduct an assessment of the private reinsurance
market’s capacity to assume a portion of the program’s insurance
risk, as well as clarify that the agency is allowed to secure
reinsurance from the private market.  “Swiss Re has an appetite” for reinsuring U.S. flood
risk, said Andrew Castaldi, head of catastrophe perils for the
Americas for Zurich-based Swiss Re. “There is more capacity in
the insurance and reinsurance market than there was 40 years
ago. It’s not really a solvency issue for many of the insurers
or the reinsurers. It’s just a matter of getting comfortable
with bringing it back to the private sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  