-- 
Copper Drops for Second Day as Global Economic Slump May Curb Metal Demand

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-29T19:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/copper-declines-on-concern-possible-recession-will-damp-demand.html
Copper dropped for a second day on
mounting concern that the global economy is headed into a
recession, slowing demand for industrial metals.  Global investors anticipate  Europe ’s debt crisis will lead
to an economic slump, a financial meltdown and social unrest in
the next year, a Bloomberg survey found. Europe’s woes have
reignited as  Greece  attempts to stave off default and spars with
its European Union partners over whether it deserves the next
tranche of aid next month. Copper prices in New York have
plunged 30 percent since touching a record in February.  “Fears of global recession” were “the key driver of the
copper selloff,” Jesper Dannesboe, a strategist at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said today in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for December delivery fell 0.05 cent to
settle at $3.246 a pound at 1:10 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
after sliding as much as 5.1 percent. The metal has slumped 24
percent since the end of June, heading for the biggest quarterly
decline since the last three months of 2008.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $21, or 0.3 percent, to $7,230 a metric ton
($3.28 a pound).  More than a third of participants in a Bloomberg survey say
deteriorating European debt will derail the world economy over
the next year, with the pessimism highlighting the pressure
policy makers face as they try again to fix the 18-month
sovereign debt crisis.  On the LME, tin for delivery in three months rose $125, or
0.6 percent, to $20,675 a ton, after gaining as much as 4.1
percent. Eight tin smelters on  Indonesia ’s Bangka Island may
load about 2,000 tons of refined metal before an export
suspension comes into force on Oct. 1, with no shipments
permitted after that date, industry executives said.  Zinc fell, while nickel, lead and aluminum gained in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  