-- 
Croda Says Business Stable as Skin-Care Makers Order More Often

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-09-29T15:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/croda-finance-chief-says-third-quarter-business-remains-stable.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA) , the maker
of sunscreen for Nivea, said business in the third quarter has
remained stable with demand for cosmetic and health-care
ingredients proving resilient to a consumer slowdown.  The company is “comfortable” with analyst estimates for
the full year and sees no reason to adjust its outlook, Finance
Director Sean Christie said in a phone interview today from
Croda’s headquarters in Goole,  England . Analysts predict about
236 million pounds ($370 million) in pretax profit for 2011,
according to the average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Croda’s customers, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , reduced
order sizes three years ago, and they continue to refrain from
“taking big punts on building stockpiles,” Christie said. The
company’s client base is diverse, and its products are used in
everyday consumer staples like anti-frizz shampoos and
moisturizers, as well as in agrochemicals and car lubricants.  “The reality is that skin-care is a pretty defensive
component of females’ weekly budget,” said Adam Collins, a
London-based analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.  Croda fell was down 1.2 percent at 1,664 pence as of 4:14
p.m. in London trading, paring a drop of as much as 3.9 percent
earlier in the day. The stock fell 3.8 percent yesterday because
of concern that an economic slowdown may hold back industry
sales. The shares have gained 3 percent this year.  “It’s not an easy market out there, but we’ve put a lot of
effort into pricing,” said Christie. “We’ve done everything we
need to do. We’re still producing some pretty good figures.”  Clarins Outlook  Beauty-care company Clarins is seeing a slowdown in parts
of  Europe , Reuters said in a report late yesterday, citing
comments by Chief Executive Officer Philip Shearer. Estee Lauder
Cos. rebounded by as much as 2.1 percent in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading today from a drop yesterday of 6.4
percent.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ,  Clariant AG (CLN)  and  BASF SE (BAS)  are among European
chemical companies expanding in personal-care ingredients as
they move away from more cyclical markets. BASF bought cosmetic-
products supplier Cognis for $3.8 billion last year.  The ingredients market is less susceptible to declines in
 consumer spending  than the related fine-fragrance and perfumery
industries, Christie said. In contrast to the last recession,
which companies entered with inflated stockpiles, clients are
ordering smaller amounts and more frequently.  “There’s no stock in the system now, and we’re seeing all
our customers living hand-to-mouth, watching what happens,”
Christie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  