-- 
Oil Gains in New York; Set for Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2008

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-30T05:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/crude-oil-rises-in-new-york-poised-for-biggest-quarterly-drop-since-2008.html
Oil rose in  New York , paring the
steepest quarterly drop since 2008, as investors speculated U.S.
fuel demand will increase on signs the economy of the world’s
biggest crude user is expanding faster than estimated.  Futures climbed for a second day after reports showed U.S.
gross domestic product last quarter and jobless claims last week
beat forecasts. West Texas Intermediate’s discount to European
Brent oil narrowed for a sixth day, the longest streak since
March 2010.  “The data out of the U.S. is supportive,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty
in Sydney. “Volatility continues for the oil market. I don’t
expect it to push through $85 in a hurry.”  Crude for November delivery gained as much as $1.09, or 1.3
percent, to $83.23 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $82.94 at 3:55 p.m. Sydney
time. Oil is down 7 percent this month. It has fallen 13 percent
this quarter, the biggest decline since the three months ended
Dec. 31, 2008.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 57 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $104.52 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are down 7 percent this quarter. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $21.58 to West
Texas Intermediate futures.  Libyan Output  Brent climbed to a record of $26.87 more than WTI on Sept.
6 as fighting in Libya reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content.  Libya  is now
producing 300,000 barrels a day of oil, said Ali Tarhouni, the
official in charge of the North African nation’s finance and oil
ministries, speaking to reporters in Tripoli yesterday.  The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a day last
month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with the 1.6
million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, faster than the 1 percent estimated by the Commerce
Department last month and beating the median forecast of 1.2
percent in a Bloomberg survey. Initial jobless claims last week
fell to the lowest since April and pending homes sales in August
declined less than expected.  European Economy  Oil may fall next week on concern that  Europe ’s economy is
showing signs of a slowdown as governments struggle to contain
their fiscal crisis and avert a Greek default, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Thirteen of 28 analysts, or 46 percent,
forecast oil will decline through Oct. 7, while eight
respondents, or 29 percent, predicted prices will increase.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will meet French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today in Paris after seeing European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  in Warsaw. European leaders
next week will discuss a permanent rescue fund after German
lawmakers approved an expansion of the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility.  The U.S. and the European Union accounted for about 38
percent of global oil demand last year, according to BP Plc’s
annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  A gauge of manufacturing in  China , which consumes about a
tenth of the world’s oil, shrank for a third month, the longest
contraction since 2009. The reading of 49.9 for the September
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared
with a preliminary 49.4 figure published last week. China is the
world’s second largest crude consumer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  