-- 
Oil Rises in New York on U.S. Economy, German Passage of Bailout Bill

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-29T20:51:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/crude-oil-rises-on-u-s-economic-expansion-german-passage-of-bailout-bill.html
Oil rose in  New York  as the U.S.
government reported that the economy grew faster than previously
estimated in the second quarter and German lawmakers approved an
expanded European bailout fund.  Futures gained 1.1 percent after the increase in gross
domestic product beat economists’ expectations.  Consumer
spending  also rose more than forecast in the quarter and jobless
claims dropped last week. Germany’s lower house of parliament
agreed to extend the European Financial Stability Facility
endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  “The GDP figure was better than expected, and that’s given
the market a good old boost,” said  Matt Smith , a commodities
analyst with Summit Energy Services Inc. in Louisville,
 Kentucky . “The jobless numbers in conjunction with GDP and the
personal consumption numbers have just buoyed the market after
the positive news out of  Europe .”  Crude for November delivery gained 93 cents to settle at
$82.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
tumbling 3.8 percent yesterday amid concern that Europe’s debt
crisis would trigger another global recession.  New York futures are down 7.5 percent this month and have
dropped 14 percent since the end of June, heading for the
biggest quarterly loss since the last three months of 2008.
Prices have fallen 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 14 cents to $103.95
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, compared with a 1 percent gain calculated last month,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 1.2
percent, following a 0.4 percent increase in the first three
months of the year.  GDP projections of 80 economists in the survey ranged from
1 percent to 1.5 percent. The government’s GDP estimate is the
third and final one for the quarter.  “The GDP blew away expectations,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “All of the doom
and gloom we were experiencing was probably overdone. There were
worries that we had dropped into recession but technically that
isn’t so.”  Jobless claims fell more than forecast last week as an
atypical calendar alignment made it more difficult for the
government to adjust the data for seasonal variations, another
report showed. Applications for benefits dropped by 37,000 to
391,000, the fewest since April, the Labor Department said. An
agency official said the data probably reflected a “slight
mistiming” in the seasonal factors used to modify the figures.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending rose at a 0.7 percent annual pace, up
from a previously reported 0.4 percent gain. Household purchases
in the first quarter climbed at a 2.1 percent annual pace.  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned U.S.
homes fell 1.2 percent in August, better than the 2 percent drop
forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  In  Germany , the lower house of parliament passed the
measure to expand the firepower of the euro-area’s rescue fund
with a vote of 523 to 85. The country’s upper house will vote on
it tomorrow.  “Obviously the extension of the European Financial
Stability Facility would have an impact on growth in Europe, and
then other countries, and that’s why the market is reacting so
strongly,” said  Christophe Barret , a London-based analyst at
Credit Agricole CIB.  The bill grants the EFSF powers to buy bonds in secondary
markets, enable bank recapitalizations and offer precautionary
credit lines. It raises Germany’s guarantees to 211 billion
euros from 123 billion euros.  European Confidence  The move came as European confidence in the economic
outlook dropped more than economists forecast in September to
the lowest level in almost two years, according to the European
Commission in Brussels. The prospect of a default in  Greece  and
instability in other European countries has roiled financial
markets for months.  About three-quarters of those questioned in a Bloomberg
survey this week said the euro-area economy will fall into
recession during the next 12 months and 53 percent said turmoil
will worsen in a banking sector laden with  government bonds ,
according to the quarterly Global Poll of 1,031 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.356 in New York at 3:07
p.m. in New York, its third increase this week. Earlier, it
touched $1.3679 on the German move. A stronger euro and weaker
dollar boosts the appeal of commodities as an alternative
investment.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 517,731
contracts as of 3:08 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 499,772
contracts yesterday, 24 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.38 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  