-- 
Crude Oil Rises on Speculation Europe Rescue Plan Will Temper Debt Crisis

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-29T12:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/crude-oil-rises-on-speculation-europe-rescue-plan-will-temper-debt-crisis.html
Oil climbed in  New York , paring its
biggest quarterly drop since 2008, after the  U.S. economy  grew
faster than estimated and on speculation Europe’s bail-out fund
will support economic growth.  Futures advanced as much as 1.9 percent, extending gains
after the Commerce Department said the world’s largest economy
expanded by 1.3 percent in the second quarter, compared with a
previous estimate of 1.1 percent.  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament today agreed to the extension of the European
Financial Stability Facility endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel . The country’s upper house will vote on it tomorrow.
Still, a Bloomberg poll indicates investors see the euro area
heading toward recession.  “Obviously the extension of the European Financial
Stability Facility would have an impact on growth in Europe, and
then other countries, and that’s why the market is reacting so
strongly,”  Christophe Barret , a London-based analyst at Credit
Agricole CIB who correctly predicted last month that prices
would drop and forecasts Brent will fall to $90 a barrel by
year-end. “Fundamentals remain very weak; economic growth is
worse than expected.”  Crude for November delivery gained as much as $1.52 to
$82.73 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $82.35 at 12:33 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday slid 3.8 percent to $81.21. Futures are down
7.3 percent this month and 9.9 percent this year. Prices have
dropped 14 percent since the end of June, the biggest quarterly
loss since the last three months of 2008.  Technical Support  Brent oil for November settlement was at $104.91 a barrel,
up $1.10, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $22.56 to New
York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Oil rebounded in New York after falling as low as $79.64.
Futures have technical support along the lower Bollinger Band at
about $79.21 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels. Five-day stochastic oscillators have fallen below 30,
signaling that prices have dropped too quickly.  Morgan Stanley said Brent will average $100 next year, down
from a previous projection of $130, because of increasing supply
and a weaker demand outlook.  Production capacity in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will climb almost 800,000 barrels a day in
2012, led by the return of Libyan fields, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by New York-based Hussein Allidina said in a report
yesterday.  Shell Refinery Fire  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  continued to fight a blaze that shut
a gasoline and diesel unit at its oil refinery in  Singapore , the
largest operated by the company.  Shell’s refining complex on an island off Singapore was on
fire for a second day as firefighters battled to contain the
worst blaze at the site in 23 years. The fire at Pulau Bukom is
still contained after a “surge” today at about noon local
time, the company said.  The Singapore Civil Defence Force is trying to prevent the
blaze from spreading to  storage tanks , according to the fire
department. Shell’s crude-distillate units at Pulau Bukom have a
total capacity of 500,000 barrels a day. The site also houses an
800,000 metric ton-a-year ethylene plant and a 155,000 ton-a-
year butadiene-extraction unit.  About three-quarters of those questioned in a Bloomberg
survey this week said the euro-area economy will fall into
recession during the next 12 months and 53 percent said turmoil
will worsen in a banking sector laden with  government bonds ,
according to the quarterly Global Poll of 1,031 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  