-- 
Komercni Banka Climbs for a Third Day, Paring September Loss

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-29T15:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/czech-stock-index-falls-as-erste-new-world-resources-decline.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit
of Societe Generale SA, rose for a third day amid speculation
declines earlier this month were overdone and as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. reaffirmed its “overweight” rating on the stock.  Komercni rose 3.1 percent to 3,455 koruna at its 4:24 p.m.
close in Prague, the highest level in almost four weeks. The
shares gained 16 percent this week, paring September losses to
2.1 percent. The Czech PX gauge of companies rose 0.7 percent.  Global stocks rose as U.S. data showed jobless claims fell
more than forecast last week and the world’s largest economy
grew faster than estimated in the second quarter. German
lawmakers approved the expansion of a bailout fund for debt-
stricken euro nations. The Czech index fell to a 29-month low on
Sept. 23 amid concern the region’s debt crisis is spreading.  “Komercni has been recovering from a sell-off at the end
of last week, which was worsened by forced stop-loss trades and
the market’s declines were overdone,” Milan Lavicka, an analyst
at J&T Banka AS in  Prague , said by phone today. “Sentiment
toward the banking sector has improved. German parliament passed
the fund top-up, and that may bring at least some relief.”  JPMorgan called the stock’s recent decline an opportunity
to buy, and reduced its earnings forecasts for Komercni. The
Prague-based bank’s share-price estimate was cut to 4,200 koruna
from 5,052 in JPMorgan’s report to clients today.  “Trading today has been helped by JPMorgan, which reduced
the target price but still has Komercni on ‘overweight,’ ”
J&T’s Lavicka said. He has a “buy” rating on Komercni shares.  The Prague Stock Exchange was closed yesterday for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  