-- 
Danish Bank Liquidity Aid Won’t Prevent Insolvencies, Winding-Up Unit Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-30T08:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/danish-liquidity-line-can-t-halt-failures-winding-up-unit-says.html
The Danish central bank’s liquidity
lifeline probably won’t prevent lenders at risk of insolvency
from failing, the head of the Nordic country’s state winding-up
unit said.  The 400 billion-krone ($72.6 billion) facility, which the
central bank announced today, will broaden existing collateral
rules to include bank loans. Lenders will be able to pledge 
healthy bank loans in exchange for six-month liquidity at the
central bank’s benchmark rate of 1.55 percent, it said.  The country’s lenders face a deepening crisis that
threatens to stall a recovery in Scandinavia’s worst-performing
economy. Two Danish  bank failures  this year triggered senior
creditor losses, leaving international funding markets closed to
all but the largest banks. Lawmaker efforts to spur
consolidation and help banks sidestep Denmark’s bail-in rules
have so far failed.  The liquidity program “will probably not solve all
problems,” Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, director at the Copenhagen-
based Financial Stability Company, Denmark’s state-backed bank
resolution unit, said in an interview before today’s
announcement. “The kind of financing you can get by borrowing
against your high quality loans at the central bank is not
medium-term financing. And medium-term financing is crucial for
having a proper financing strategy.”  Staying Afloat  The central bank is boosting its liquidity support to help
lenders stay afloat as they struggle to refinance debt backed by
a state guarantee that expires in 2013.  About 75 of  Denmark ’s 90 local banks probably need to
disappear, Financial Stability Company Chairman Henning Kruse Petersen said in an interview this month. Mergers are being
stalled by skepticism at Denmark’s healthier banks toward what
may be lurking on the balance sheets of their troubled peers,
according to Ulrik Noedgaard, the director general of the
country’s Financial Supervisory Authority.  The healthy parts of Amagerbanken A/S, which failed in
February, were bought by Faroese lender BankNordik P/F in May.
The Torshavn, Faroe Islands-based bank was downgraded this month
by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the takeover added
risk.  Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-biggest listed lender,
today said it bought parts of Fjordbank Mors A/S, which failed
in June after losing money on loans to real estate and farming.  Refinancing  Banks are cutting lending and dumping assets as they
struggle to refinance about 158 billion kroner ($29 billion) in
state-backed debt through 2013. Lenders with the biggest
refinancing burdens are unlikely to benefit from the central
bank’s liquidity line, Bjerre-Nielsen said.  “If they’re in a situation where the liquidity they have
acquired by issuing bonds with government guarantees is a very
large amount, I don’t think they’ll be able to solve it with
just having liquidity from the central bank,” he said. “But
they can probably get part of the gap solved by the central
bank. If you have a small gap, you should be able to bridge it
with the central bank facility.”  The central bank said today that lenders will be able to
borrow liquidity for six months, alongside an existing seven-day
facility, at the benchmark lending rate of 1.55 percent.  Tap Facility  FIH Erhvervsbank A/S, the largest holder of state-
guaranteed bonds, according to Financial Stability, probably
will tap the facility to give it flexibility as it reduces its
balance sheet and refinances loans, Chief Executive Officer
Bjarne Graven Larsen said in an interview. The bank holds about
45 billion kroner in state-backed bonds, after repaying about 5
billion kroner earlier this week.  Still, the facility may not be enough for some banks,
particularly if it expires in 2013, Graven Larsen said.  “For a bank to actually reduce the balance sheet and get
to where you want to be, it simply takes time and two years is
not a lot of time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  