-- 
AT&T Saves Customer Data for Up to Seven Years, Justice Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-29T22:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/data-retention-at-at-t-sprint-outlined-by-justice-department.html
U.S. mobile-carriers such as  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless retain customer data including billing
records and the cell towers used by a phone for at least a year,
according to a  Justice Department  document.  AT&T has some of the longest retention periods, saving
text-message details, some call records and copies of bills for
as long as seven years, according to the document, which was
posted today on the Justice Department’s website. The document
also outlined data-retention practices at  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and T-Mobile USA Inc.  “This disclosure reflects the importance of data
minimization,” Greg Nojeim, senior counsel at the Center for
Democracy and Technology in Washington, said in an interview.
“Some companies do a much better job of disposing of sensitive,
personally identifiable information. Once such information is no
longer needed for business-reasons, it shouldn’t be held onto
because of the risks that it could be obtained by a hacker.”  Mobile phone records are obtained through a legal process
mandated by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act,  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
The document posted today was originally produced for  law
enforcement  and was released following a Freedom of Information
Act request from the  American Civil Liberties Union  of North
Carolina.  “Communications providers store records for business
purposes, however those records can also be critical to a wide
variety of criminal and national security investigations,”
Sweeney said.  Law Enforcement Requests  Verizon Wireless responds to law enforcement requests for
customer data if it is able to provide the information,
according to Jeffrey Nelson, a spokesman for the Basking Ridge,
New Jersey-based carrier, which is owned by New York-based
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Newbury, England-based  Vodafone
Group Plc. (VOD)   “While we won’t comment on the details in the report,
 Verizon Wireless  keeps data for various periods of time in order
to provide services to our customers, including responding to
customer inquiries about their own accounts,” Nelson said in an
interview. “We take the privacy of our customers very
seriously, and have policies and procedures in place to
safeguard customer information.”  Privacy Policy  Michael Balmoris, a Washington-based spokesman for AT&T,
pointed to the company’s privacy  policy  and referred to an April
19 letter sent to Representatives  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts
Democrat, and Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, that detailed its
practices for handling customer data.  AT&T gathers data to provide “the best customer experience
possible” and uses “powerful encryption and other security
safeguards to protect customer data,” according to the
company’s privacy policy.  T-Mobile collects personal information for “various
business purposes” and to “create and improve products and
services,” according to the  privacy policy  posted on its
website. The company uses a “variety of physical, electronic
and procedural safeguards to protect personal information.”  T-Mobile did not immediately respond to requests for
comment.  Sprint uses personal information from customers for
business purposes, to “respond to legal process” and improve
services, according to its  privacy policy . “We maintain a
variety of physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards,”
which protect “personal information from loss, misuse and
unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction,”
according to the company’s policy.  Good Stewards  “We act as good stewards of our customers’ personal
information while also meeting our obligations to law
enforcement agencies,” Jason Gertzen, a spokesman for Overland
Park, Kansas-based Sprint, said in an e-mail. “Different
categories of data are retained for varying lengths of time
depending on the type and sensitivity of data, the applicable
laws and regulations governing the retention of such data and
the business purpose of the data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in  Washington  at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  