-- 
Denmark to Start Rescue Fund for Crisis-Hit Farm Industry Amid Bank Freeze

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-29T08:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/denmark-to-start-rescue-fund-for-crisis-hit-farm-industry-amid-bank-freeze.html
Denmark ’s farming council is
planning to set up a fund to prevent the country’s agricultural
industry from collapsing as bank credit dries up.  The fund will target institutional investors in an effort
to generate start capital of as much as 1 billion kroner ($183
million), the Danish Agriculture and Food Council Business
Director Lone Saaby said. The amount will be increased if the
fund is successful in its efforts to support the farming
industry, she said.  The credit freeze facing Denmark’s agricultural industry
threatens to shutter farms and local banks and exacerbate a low-
growth trap that has made Denmark the Nordic region’s worst-
performing economy. A crisis risks squeezing exports and
eliminating jobs, adding to stresses already present in the
economy from twin banking and housing crises.  “There is some urgency,” Saaby said in an interview in
Copenhagen yesterday. “We could have a complete crash of the
farming sector and that would hit a lot of small banks and even
larger banks. That would be the worse-case scenario.”  The agriculture and food industry is Denmark’s largest,
employing about 150,000 people and making up about one fifth of
total exports. The country’s  5,500  pig farmers export 85 percent
of production, making Denmark the world’s largest pork exporter.  Bank Losses  Under the farm rescue plan, credit provided by the fund
would replace bank loans, allowing lenders to remove them from
their balance sheets, Saaby said. Still, banks will probably
have to foot a loss on the loans, many of which are already non-
performing, she said.  “It’s a clear signal to the banks that they have to take
some losses,” Saaby said. “We don’t like the situation where
the banks provide credit for farms that should have been on the
market or restructured years ago.”  Danish registered unemployment rate rose to a nine-month
high in August, the national statistics office said today.
Joblessness rose to 4.2 percent from 4.1 percent in July.  “Rising unemployment is not what the Danish economy needs
right now,” Michael Staehr, chief economist at Sydbank A/S,
said in a note. Consumers aren’t spending, hurting businesses
which then fire employees, further reducing spending. It is, he
said, “a very evil circle.”  Agricultural property prices soared in the last decade amid
a nationwide property boom that peaked in 2007. Since then,
prices have plunged and this year bankruptcies in the industry
almost doubled. In June, regional lender Fjordbank Mors A/S
collapsed after writing down bad loans to farmers.  Farm Debt  Total farm debt more than doubled in the decade to 2011 as
land prices climbed and adjustable-rate mortgages became
commonplace, according to an August report by the agriculture
council. Debt climbed to 359 billion kroner in 2010 from 165
billion kroner in 2000. Adjustable-rate mortgages accounted for
two-thirds of loans last year. A decade earlier, the loans made
up 11 percent of total debt.  Fjordbank Mors’ failure may be the first in a string of
insolvencies that could stem from the farming sector, Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, the chief executive officer at Denmark’s bank
winding-up authority, the Financial Stability Company, said in
an interview. He warns that a farming crisis will hit exports
and impede economic growth as it trickles through industries
dependent on agricultural produce.  “The farmers, if they do not continue their business, it
will have an impact on the slaughter houses and exports of
agricultural products,” Bjerre-Nielsen said. “It may have an
impact on the overall level of income on society.”  Weak Loans  Banks most exposed to farming have a higher ratio of risky
loans, making them more prone to losses, according to the Danish
Financial Supervisory Authority. About one quarter of farming
loans at banks with at least 15 percent exposure to the industry
are “very weak,” the FSA said in a May  report .  The same ratio for agricultural loans at banks with less
than 5 percent exposure to the industry is about 18 percent, the
regulator said. Last year, banks wrote down 6 percent of their
loans to farms compared with 1 percent in 2007, it said.  Denmark’s banks are reining in lending as they struggle to
emerge from a crisis exacerbated by an international funding
wall as investors shun the country’s bail-in rules. The Nordic
country in October imposed the European Union’s toughest
resolution laws, and the two lenders that have since failed both
forced losses on senior creditors.  Many banks are either dumping assets or shutting off credit
in an effort to shrink their loan books and reduce their
reliance on funding. That’s making it more difficult for
troubled industries to get the loans they need to stay afloat.  “If you’re a farmer and you’ve been in this situation for
maybe three, four, five years, it’s very tough,” Saaby said.
“The small banks, they’re being forced by the FSA to try and
reduce their balances within the sector.”  Bankruptcies in the farming, fishing and forestry
industries rose 79 percent in the first eight months of 2011
from a year earlier, according to data from the Copenhagen-based
statistics agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  