-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to End Lenders’ Two-Month Bond Sale Drought Amid Crisis

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-29T15:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/deutsche-bank-said-to-sell-senior-unsecured-floating-rate-notes.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  raised 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) from the first sale of public, senior
unsecured bonds by a European lender in more than two months,
the longest period on record without a deal.  Germany ’s biggest bank priced the floating-rate notes due
October 2013 today at a yield of 98 basis points more than the
three-month euro interbank offered rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank paid a spread of 40 basis
points to issue two-year securities in February.  “Given the pricing, they probably swallowed a bit before
doing it,” said Roger Doig, a London-based analyst at Schroders
Plc, which manages the equivalent of about $58 billion in fixed-
income assets. “They have a strong investor base domestically
and their name is the same as the strongest country in the euro
zone. That all helps.”  European lenders’ access to the  bond market  has been
hampered as  Greece ’s flirtation with default worsened the euro-
region sovereign debt crisis. The last non-state-owned bank to
issue a similar public benchmark bond was  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest lender, which sold 1 billion euros of November 2012
floating-rate notes July 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Speculation policy makers are getting to grips with the
crisis thawed credit markets this week and paved the way for
Deutsche Bank’s deal. German lawmakers backed an expansion of
the euro-area rescue fund today.  Spread Narrows  The extra yield investors demand to hold bank bonds instead
of benchmark government debt fell to 3.39 percentage points from
a record 3.51 percentage points on Sept. 26, according to
Barclays Capital’s Euro Aggregate Banking Senior Index.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell
three basis points to 263, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
gauge dropped from 282 basis points at the end of last week.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Deutsche Bank raised 118.6 million euros by selling
floating-rate notes to domestic investors in July, paying no
premium to Euribor, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Frankfurt-based lender managed the new transaction itself, the
data show.  “It’s the kind of deal that can come in a very difficult
environment,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in  London . “If it’s the start of a trend all
the better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  