-- 
Dokic’s Father Still Banned From WTA Tour Events Even After Reconciliation

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-29T13:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/dokic-s-father-still-banned-from-wta-tour-events-even-after-reconciliation.html
Jelena Dokic’s father and former
coach, Damir Dokic, remains banned from attending tournaments on
the women’s tour, even after the two reconciled this week after
eight years, the  WTA  said.  Jelena Dokic, a former  Wimbledon  semifinalist who competes
for  Australia , yesterday said in a  statement  released by Tennis
Australia that she had visited her father at his home in  Serbia 
“to finally put an end to our disagreement.”  Jelena Dokic, 28, had ended contact with her father in 2003
following a series of incidents that overshadowed her career. He
was thrown out of the 2000 U.S. Open for abusive behavior in the
players’ lounge and censured at that year’s Wimbledon, where he
broke a television journalist’s cell phone. In 2001, Damir
accused organizers of the Australian Open of fixing the draw. He
also threatened to abduct his daughter.  “As a result of previous incidents, Damir Dokic is not
eligible to receive a credential for WTA tournaments,” Andrew
Walker, a spokesman for the WTA, said in an e-mail. “Beyond
that, each tournament has the right to decide, based on their
own security considerations, who is eligible or ineligible to
purchase a seat at an event.”  Walker said the WTA “will continue to monitor this
matter.”  Jelena, 72nd on the WTA rankings, said she had initiated
the meeting with her father “as I want to unite my family and
allow us to get on with our lives and be happy. This has gone on
too long.”  Jail Release  The reunion came 17 months after Damir was released
following almost a year in jail for threatening to blow up the
Australian Embassy in Belgrade and possession of an illegal
cache of weapons in his house.  “My father was very receptive and I believe he has changed
greatly,” Jelena said in her statement. “He understands that I
am my own person who makes my own decisions.”  After three years of struggling with depression which
prevented her from playing a full schedule, Dokic reached the
quarterfinals of the 2009 Australian Open.  This season, she won her sixth WTA title in  Kuala Lumpur  in
February and reached the final on the grass courts of Den Bosch
in the Netherlands in June. Her next event will be in Linz,
 Austria , starting Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 