-- 
Dollar Gains as Stocks Pare Rise, New Zealand Weakens on Fitch Downgrade

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-29T21:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/dollar-gains-as-stocks-pare-rise-new-zealand-weakens-on-fitch-downgrade.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major counterparts as stocks pared gains and  New Zealand ’s
credit rating was lowered by  Fitch Ratings , damping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The euro trimmed its advance against the dollar after an
approval in Germany of an expansion to the region’s bailout fund
failed to allay investor concern about the sovereign debt
crisis. New Zealand’s dollar weakened after Fitch cut the
nation’s rating by one step to AA, citing its high level of debt
and persistent current account deficit. The Brazilian real,
Mexico’s peso and the Australian dollar also reversed earlier
gains.  “Yes, there was an optimism at the beginning of the week
and yes, we had this ratification by the German Bundestag, but
the underlying flows remain largely risk-averse,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange group in
 Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon, the world’s largest custodial
bank, with more than $26 trillion in assets under
administration. “In this environment, no one wants to leave
risk on for too long.”  The dollar added 0.3 percent to 76.84 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, and touched 77.03, the first time the currency rose above
77 yen since Sept. 15. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.3597,
after earlier rising as high as $1.3679. The common currency
rose 0.7 percent to 104.48 yen.  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent after
gaining as much as 2.2 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB index of raw materials added 0.8 percent.  Mexico ’s peso was the worst performer among the major
currencies, falling 1.1 percent to 13.7100 per dollar after
earlier appreciating to 13.3969.  Lawmakers in the Bundestag, the lower house of the German
parliament, voted 523 in favor of legislation aimed at expanding
the powers of the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) EFSF, while 85
voted no and three abstained. The legislation is set to be
debated and put to a non-binding vote in the upper house, or
Bundesrat, tomorrow. All 17 euro members must approve the
changes to the EFSF before they go into effect.  German Vote  The vote in Berlin on changes to the EFSF allows the fund
to buy the bonds of distressed member states and offer emergency
loans to governments, raising  Germany ’s guarantees to 211
billion euros from 123 billion euros.  “We’re taking piecemeal incremental steps in trying to
move forward,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Markets
are cautiously optimistic, but the euro problems are far from
resolved. People are inching their way back into risk.”  About 93 percent of investors expect  Greece  to eventually
default, according to the quarterly Global Poll of 1,031
Bloomberg subscribers. Forty percent foresee the currency bloc
losing at least one member in the next year.  New Zealand had its long-term foreign-currency issuer
default rating cut to AA from AA+ by Fitch, which cited a high
level of debt and unfavorable economic growth. The long-term
local-currency rating was cut to AA+ from AAA. The outlook on
both ratings is stable.  The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, fell 0.7 percent to
77.10 per  U.S. dollar .  Monthly Gains  The yen and dollar have gained the most against eight
developed-nation counterparts this month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has added 6.7
percent and the dollar rose 6.9 percent.  The Japanese currency has outperformed its major peers this
quarter, gaining 11.7 percent in the past three months while
 Australia ’s dollar fell 4.3 percent.  Gains in the euro also were tempered after  Italy ’s
borrowing costs rose at a government debt sale today. Italy’s
five-year credit-default swaps were at 472 basis points today,
showing traders see a 34 percent chance for the nation’s
nonpayment, compared with 4.6 percent for the U.S.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, faster than the 1 percent estimated last
month, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was 1.2 percent, following a 0.4 percent increase in the
first three months of the year.  Jobs Data  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped by 37,000 in
the week ended Sept. 24 to 391,000, the fewest since April,
Labor Department figures showed today. The Applications fell
more than forecast last week as an atypical calendar alignment
made it more difficult for the government to adjust the data for
seasonal changes. Economists forecast 420,000 claims, according
to a median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The won snapped a two-day gain versus the dollar after a
report showed the current-account surplus narrowed in August,
dimming the growth outlook for  Korea ’s export-led economy.  The surplus was $401.3 million compared with a revised
$3.77 billion in July, the  Bank of Korea  said today.  “The narrowing of the current-account surplus was expected
in the market and points to a bleak outlook for the Korean
economy,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul .  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,173.70 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  