-- 
DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says ‘Entrenched’ U.S. Bankers Need New Competition

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-entrenched-u-s-bankers-need-new-competition.html
U.S. policy makers should back the
creation of new banks because the country’s biggest lenders are
restrained by faulty  mortgage loans  and inflated staffs,
according to  Jeffrey Gundlach , founder and head of asset manager
DoubleLine Capital LP.  “They should be encouraging new banks,” he said in an
interview today. “There aren’t enough new businesses to compete
with entrenched businesses.”  Gundlach, who helped manage the top-rated intermediate-term
U.S. bond mutual fund for 15 years, has been negative on U.S.
banks since 2007 as mortgage issues weigh on profitability and,
more recently, as trading losses mount. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , an
equity barometer that 24 big U.S. banks, is down 32 percent this
year, and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporates,
Bank bond index has lost 2.9 percent.  “There’s really just nothing good happening in the
banks,” said Gundlach, whose Los Angeles-based DoubleLine has
attracted $17 billion of assets since its December 2009
inception. He’s negative on Bank of America Corp. because of its
2008 takeover of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the biggest U.S. lender,
said “We have strengthened our balance sheet, our  capital
ratios  are three times what is required under regulatory
minimums, we have record amts of liquidity, and we’ve built up
sizable reserves to handle future mortgage related claims.”  Selling Assets  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has agreed to
sell almost $50 billion in assets and units amid investor
concern that mortgage losses may force him to raise funds to
comply with new international capital standards. He has
repeatedly said that the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm
will not need to issue new stock. The divestitures raise cash
and reduce assets deemed risky by regulators.  “We have important work to do to continue putting
Countrywide’s legacy mortgage issues behind us and building the
capital we will need to meet new regulatory requirements and the
market’s expectations in coming years,” Moynihan said Aug. 19.  Gundlach also is avoiding banks after debt from high-yield
bonds to subprime-mortgage securities dropped in June as the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York unloaded assets assumed in the
rescue of American International Group Inc. and held by a
vehicle called Maiden Lane II. The Fed still has about $21
billion to be auctioned, according to Barclays Capital data.  Trading Losses  Banks lost money after credit-default swaps indexes used by
dealers,  hedge funds  and other investors to protect against
losses on subprime housing debt and commercial mortgages
plummeted and rebounded on the Fed actions, according to
Gundlach.  Bank profitability is also damped by the dropping yield on
30-year Treasury bonds, which dipped below 3 percent for the
first time since 2009, after the Fed completed its $600 billion
of bond purchases, as well as the risk of losses in European
banks as the region struggles to avoid  Greece ’s default. Banks
should also slim down, as “employment in the financial services
industry is incredibly high relative to history,” he said.  Financial firms have announced more than 120,000 cuts this
year, while hiring in some markets or businesses, data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries show. London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s
largest bank, said last month it will shed 30,000 workers. Bank
of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender by assets, said Sept.
12 it also will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years
under a project to remove about $5 billion in annual costs.  Gundlach previously co-managed the  TCW Total Return Bond
Fund (TGLMX) , which returned 7.6 percent annually in the previous 15
years, the most by any intermediate-term bond fund, according to
data from Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  