-- 
DSK, French Accuser Faced Off Before Police

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-29T10:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/dsk-french-accuser-faced-off-before-paris-police.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and the
French woman who accused him of attempted rape met today at a
Paris police station for face-to-face questioning on the
allegations.  The two left the station in Paris’s 13th arrondissement
separately after a two-and-a-half hour long “confrontation,”
as the meeting is called, according to images broadcast on LCI
television. Neither commented before or after the meeting.  Writer Tristane Banon claimed Strauss-Kahn tried to rape
her in 2003 when she visited him for an interview, filing her
complaint in July as another attempted rape case against the 62-
year-old was unraveling in  New York . Strauss-Kahn resigned his
post as head of the  International Monetary Fund  in May to fight
claims by a Manhattan hotel maid. That case was dropped in
August after prosecutors said the maid’s story was unreliable.
Strauss-Kahn returned to Paris earlier this month.  “I’m scared” to come face to face with Strauss-Kahn,
Banon said on Sept. 24 at a Paris rally calling for stricter
punishment of violence against women. “I want no money” from
him, she said, and should any damages ultimately be awarded to
her, she said she would give the money to charity.  Paris prosecutors opened a preliminary inquiry into Banon’s
claims to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to open
a full investigation. Police have questioned about 20 people
with whom Banon spoke or who had heard about it, including her
mother, Strauss-Kahn’s ex-wife and daughter. Today’s meeting
should be the final step before prosecutors decide whether to
close the case or continue, Agence France-Presse reported today.  Strauss-Kahn called her account “imaginary” in a Sept. 18
television interview and said their meeting “didn’t involve any
aggression, any violence.”  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer Frederique Baulieu, Banon’s lawyer
David Koubbi and a spokeswoman for the prosecutors office didn’t
respond to requests for comment. The two met unaccompanied by
their lawyers, AFP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 