-- 
Meat Supply’s ‘Precipitous’ Drop to Spur Prices to Records, Rabobank Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-29T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/meat-supply-s-precipitous-drop-to-spur-prices-to-records-rabobank-says.html
U.S. meat and poultry production
may drop as much as 5 percent next year, sending beef and pork
prices to a record amid climbing feed costs and shrinking herds,
according to Rabobank International.  Producers are curbing output as tighter feed supplies boost
costs, which will lead to a “precipitous fall” in available
meat in 2012, David Nelson, a global strategist at Rabobank,
said in a report. The drop is compounded by a drought that is
forcing ranchers in the Southwest to cull herds and by surging
demand for U.S. beef in  developing countries , he said.  “There’s going to be less supply, so we’re going to have
higher prices,” Nelson said in a telephone interview from
Chicago yesterday. “It’s quite a shift.”  By late 2012, U.S. beef production may be running at rate
of 7 percent below comparable levels this year, Nelson said. The
spot-market price for fed steers sold to slaughterhouses may
average a record $1.16 a pound in 2012, up from a projected
$1.13 a pound this year, Nelson said in the report. Beef prices
also will climb to an all-time high, he said.  U.S. per-capita consumption of beef will continue to drop,
so the tightening supply of the meat may impact foreign buyers
the most, Nelson said. The “relatively cheap dollar” is
boosting demand for U.S. meat, Nelson said. The dollar is down
1.2 percent this year against a basket of six major currencies.  U.S. beef  shipments  climbed 27 percent in the seven months
through July 31, government data show. Exports in the fourth
quarter of next year will probably be down 10 percent or more
from the same period this year, because the beef “just won’t be
available” to ship, he said.  ‘Modest declines’  Pork output may have “modest declines” in 2012, sending
prices to a record, as producers slaughter more sows rather than
keep them for breeding because of rising feed costs, Nelson said
in the report. The price of corn, the main ingredient in
livestock feed, is up 26 percent in the past year and U.S.
 yields  may drop to a six-year low, the government has forecast.  Spot-market hog prices next year may average 10 percent
higher than the record levels this year, Nelson said in the
report, calling the outlook for hog and pork prices “robust”
amid strong overseas demand for the meat.  The broiler industry in the U.S. is “suffering some of its
worst losses in history,” amid weak demand and an increase in
breast-meat inventory, Nelson said. Profits may return in the
spring if there are “aggressive” production cuts, he said.
Those expected declines in output will worsen the U.S. protein
shortfall, according to Nelson.  Foodservice operators and retailers will need to secure
meat supplies earlier than normal next year, Nelson said.  “If they want to maintain and manage menu prices, they
should be thinking about locking in supplies as early as
possible,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 