-- 
Gasoline Slips on Lower Consumer Confidence, Less U.S. Demand

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-29T19:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/heating-oil-gains-on-europe-debt-optimism-jobs-gdp-reports.html
Gasoline declined after reports
that U.S.  consumer confidence  slid to the second-lowest on
record and U.S. motor-fuel demand in July was lower than
estimated.  Futures sank as the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
dropped to minus 53 in the period ended Sept. 25 from minus 52.1
the prior week. Energy Department  monthly data  showed gasoline
demand averaged 8.96 million barrels a day in July, less than
the 9.08 million estimated in weekly reports.  “This says everything about demand because when people are
worried, they hang onto their wallets,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “And now we find
out demand was actually less than we thought.”  Gasoline for October delivery fell 3.15 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $2.6192 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The more actively traded November contract lost 1.67 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $2.5586. October gasoline and heating oil
contracts expire at the end of floor trading tomorrow.  “This is indicative of the high prices consumers saw
during the summer and it gets people more bearish about
gasoline,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston.  Gasoline deliveries to wholesalers in the week ended Sept.
23, measured on a four-week average, was 2.4 percent lower than
a year earlier, according to department data.  European Debt Crisis  Futures have lost 14 percent in September and in the third
quarter on concern that the European debt crisis that began in
 Greece  would spread, endangering the region’s economy and
reducing global growth.  Gasoline and heating oil rose earlier on optimism that the
euro region’s credit crisis could be contained and as the  U.S.
economy  grew faster than earlier estimated, easing fears that
fuel demand will slip.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter, Commerce Department figures showed, higher than
1 percent in the previous estimate. Jobless claims fell 37,000
last week to 391,000, the fewest since April, according to Labor
Department data.  German Vote  German lawmakers approved an expansion of the euro-area
rescue fund’s firepower. The lower house of parliament passed
the rescue measure. Its upper house will debate the fund
tomorrow. Expanding the fund requires approval in all 17 euro
countries, and nine have authorized the changes.  “ Europe  is not going to go under this weekend, that’s all
we found out today,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida . “Yes, there’s some
optimism today but it’s just another Band-Aid.”  October-delivery heating oil fell 0.03 cent to settle at
$2.8181 a gallon on the exchange, after touching $2.8724. The
November contract lost 0.05 cent to $2.8266.  Futures have lost 8.4 percent this month and are down 3.9
percent for the quarter.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, dropped
1 cent to $3.455 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. The
average is at the lowest level since March 2 after falling every
day since Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  