-- 
Tech Battles Call for Simplicity, Thrift, Customer Focus: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/tech-battles-call-for-simplicity-thrift-customer-focus-view.html
High technology, once again, is
packed with battles for market supremacy.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is
introducing a tablet computer that takes aim at market leader
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Another prominent showdown involves  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s
efforts to capture the lead in online movie streaming.  Eye-catching as each joust may be, companies should heed
two enduring lessons about innovation in any market. First, big
breakthroughs tend to involve cut-rate simplicity, rather than
elaborate features. Second, even the best strategy will fail if
it isn’t customer-friendly.  The case for simple and cheap inspires Amazon’s tablet
rollout. The Kindle Fire offers a smaller screen than the iPad,
while omitting the built-in camera and some other features that
Apple provides.  Amazon does offer a rock-bottom $199 price, compared with
Apple models that often top $500. That contrasts with pricier
Apple imitations offered earlier this year by Hewlett-Packard
Co. and Research in Motion Ltd. (Those models fared poorly.) By
providing less than Apple -- but perhaps offering just enough --
Amazon is showing a crafty way for upstarts to target entrenched
leaders.  Harvard Business School professor Clay Christensen has
warned for years that competitive threats go beyond longtime
rivals’ efforts to make better products. Pay close heed, he
says, to newcomers whose cheap, seemingly inferior offerings use
new technologies that you don’t yet fully understand.  Those disruptive upstarts can be killers. As Christensen
argued in his bestselling book “The Innovator’s Dilemma,”
newcomers first target low-end customers who don’t seem
important. Then the insurgents gain traction. Their products
keep getting better and quicker. Eventually the upstarts
demolish the old guard.  Even the upstarts, though, can face tricky strategic
choices. Netflix reached such a crossroads after early success
in renting movie DVDs by mail. This booming business helped push
the traditional video-store giant, Blockbuster Inc., into
bankruptcy proceedings.  Now Netflix must cope with new disruptive technology:
Internet streaming of movies to viewers’ televisions or
computers. Hoping to stay on top, Netflix is bifurcating its
services and attaching the Netflix name to its nascent streaming
business. The older DVD rental operation will be renamed
Qwikster, with separate billing and customer data.  Although Netflix’s decision can be seen as an extreme
effort to apply Christensen’s principles, customers and
investors have seethed at the prospect of losing single-account
access to both DVDs and video streaming. Netflix stock is down
nearly 20 percent since the split was announced. Three lessons
from that misstep stand out:  -- Convenience matters. Straddling DVDs and streaming might
be more work for Netflix, but it’s a boon for customers wanting
movies in both forms. Customers cherish companies that make life
easier; loyalty vanishes as roadblocks arise.  -- Customers’ habits can’t be upended overnight. Netflix is
probably right about streaming’s future. But it will take time
for people to change movie-viewing habits. Step-by-step
transitions work best.  -- Great companies boost quality, not prices. Trying to
nudge customers toward streaming, Netflix jacked up its prices
this summer by as much as 60 percent. The company didn’t offer
parallel quality upgrades, and customers wailed.  One pioneer that ignored these maxims was Wingspan, an
Internet-only bank created by Bank One in 1999. That venture
perished within two years, as it became clear that customers
preferred to blend online and branch banking at one institution.  By contrast, high tech’s biggest success stories --
including Apple and Amazon -- constantly put all three
principles to work. They obsess about convenience; they guide
customers forward with many small changes over time, and they
steadily lower prices while offering more features or services.
That’s the secret to winning in disruptive times.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 