-- 
Edwards Lifesciences Drops on U.S. Review of Heart Product

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-29T20:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/edwards-lifesciences-drops-on-medicare-review-of-heart-product.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , a
pioneer in artificial heart valves, fell the most in three years
in New York trading after U.S. regulators said insertion of the
company’s new valve poses a high risk of stroke and death.  The shares of  Irvine , California-based Edwards declined
$4.99, or 6.6 percent, to $70.88 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. They dropped as much as 11 percent
to $67.50, the biggest intraday decline since August 2008.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will
review reimbursement rules for Edwards’s heart valve replacement
product, the agency said late yesterday on its  website . The
center said it’s aware of high rates of stroke and death by
patients who have received the valves, a procedure that’s mostly
performed in top academic medical centers.  “This limited experience in the U.S. raises the question
of generalizability of the existing evidence base to more ‘real
world’ settings,” the agency said.  At issue is the insertion of the valves through a procedure
called transcatheter aortic valve replacement, or implantation.
The procedure is meant to treat aortic stenosis, a condition
where a valve in the heart doesn’t completely close as it pumps
blood. The FDA has yet to approve the valve product itself,
according to Medicare.  Medicare pays for drugs and devices that have been approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. A national coverage
analysis means the agency has decided to review conditions for a
drug or device’s use and payment.  “The NCD draft is just entering the public comment period,
and we expect it to evolve as the societies, regulators and
other stakeholders provide their input on the important
details,” Edwards said in an e-mailed statement.  An adverse decision by the government would limit use of
the Edwards product,  Michael Weinstein , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a note to clients today. “Essentially, TAVI
is going to be a procedure done by the best doctors and only on
the worst patients.”  Edwards has been making artificial  heart valves  since 1960.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 