-- 
Lehman Says Creditors With $140 Billion in Claims Support Liquidation Plan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-29T13:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/lehman-says-creditors-with-140-billion-in-claims-support-liquidation-plan.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
creditors holding more than $140 billion in claims support the
company’s latest payout plan, up from $100 billion in July, the
defunct firm said.  More than 50 creditors have put that support in writing
ahead of a November vote and December hearing to confirm the $65
billion liquidation plan, Lehman said in a filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  yesterday.  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in September 2008, has been settling disputes and gathering
votes since July, when it agreed to allot more money to a group
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders such
as Paulson & Co. Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay
Lehman’s debts. Lehman also ended a legal battle to extract $11
billion from Barclays Plc and said yesterday it would settle a
lawsuit with Bank of America Corp.  Lehman, which holds cash and investments of about $25
billion, has said it aims to start distributing money to
creditors in the first quarter. About $13.6 billion in cash
comes from derivatives assets, Lehman said in yesterday’s
filing. Fees to managers and advisers total about $1.4 billion.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman
fought the Paulson group and the Goldman Sachs group of
derivatives creditors for months over control of its liquidation
plan. Lehman twice amended its proposals to pay claims in
response to creditor challenges.  Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  has said he intends to
raise a total of $65 billion from the firm’s assets in the next
few years, including the cash already in hand. He has previously
estimated final claims at more than $300 billion.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy with assets of $639 billion.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 