-- 
Heir to Ecuador Supermarket Fortune Sues Brothers in Inheritance Dispute

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-29T15:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/heir-to-ecuador-supermarket-fortune-sues-brothers-in-inheritance-dispute.html
The daughter of the founder of
 Corporacion El Rosado, S.A.  sued her brothers, claiming they
stole part of her inheritance in the company, which owns
supermarkets and shopping malls in  Ecuador .  Vivian Czarninski Baier de Adler accused her brothers,
Johny Jacobo Czarninski Baier and Danny David Czarninski Baier,
of reorganizing El Rosado after the death of their father,
Alfredo Czarninski in order to reduce her share of the company
and increase their own. The suit, filed in Delaware Chancery
Court yesterday, also accuses Vivian Czarninski’s niece of
aiding the alleged scheme.  After battling her brothers over their father’s will for
about four years “Vivian discovered the shocking truth: the
defendants had reduced her hundreds of millions of dollars worth
of holdings in El Rosado Group to almost nothing and the
corporate stock that she equitably owns and that was stolen from
her was located in  Delaware  and held by the Delaware LLC.”  The lawsuit grew out of a court fight in  Israel , where
Vivian Czarninski lives and where she sued in 2005 to uphold the
terms of the family’s will. Alfredo Czarninski died in 2003.  Vivian Czarninski claims much of the family fortune is now
in the hands of her brothers and being held in companies that
are incorporated in Delaware.  Fled  Germany   Officials at the company in Guayaquil, Ecuador, didn’t
answer telephone calls today. An e-mail to the company wasn’t
immediately returned.  The company owns 76 commercial stores in Ecuador and
employs more than 7,000 people. Alfredo Czarninski fled Germany
in 1936 and settled in Ecuador, where he founded a restaurant
that he eventually expanded into one of the biggest corporations
in the country, worth about $1 billion, according to the
lawsuit.  The case is Vivian Czarninski Baier de Adler v. Upper New
York Investment Company, LLC, no. 6896, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 