-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Week High on U.S. Data, German Vote

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-29T22:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/emerging-market-stocks-gain-ahead-of-german-vote-samsung-rises.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
sending a benchmark index to the highest in a week, after the
U.S. reported faster-than-expected growth in the second quarter
and German lawmakers approved the expansion of a European rescue
fund.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.4 percent to 894.48
by 4:33 p.m. in New York, the highest since Sept. 21. Brazil’s
Bovespa Index rose 0.2 percent and  Mexico ’s IPC Index gained 0.7
percent. Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  increased 1.3 percent,
and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 2.7 percent. The benchmark
in  India  increased 1.5 percent while that in  China  fell 1.1
percent.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 1.3 percent last quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed today. That’s more than the
1.2 percent forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and a
0.4 percent growth in the prior quarter.  Germany ’s lower house
of parliament passed a proposal by Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government today to expand the powers of the European Financial
Stability Facility, an euro-region rescue fund. The legislation
is set to a non-binding vote in the upper house tomorrow.  “Emerging-market equities are pricing in significant
recession risk in the developed world,” said  John Lomax , an
emerging-markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Better-than-expected U.S. numbers and
an increasing chance of stronger European policy action are
helping to reduce these risks.”  The MSCI emerging-market index has fallen 22 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent slide in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index.
Shares on the developing-nation gauge are trading at 10 times
trailing earnings versus 12 times for stocks in developed
nations. Concern  Greece  will default on its debt is dragging
global equities and commodities toward their biggest quarterly
losses since 2008.  German Vote  The plan approved by German lawmakers today will allow the
EFSF to buy bonds of distressed states and offer emergency loans
to governments, raising Germany’s guarantees to 211 billion
euros ($288 billion) from 123 billion euros.  “Investors appear to be pinning their hopes on the German
vote on the euro-area rescue fund,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-
based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $28 billion. “They seem to be betting that
the region’s debt troubles, though there will be sporadic bumps,
will eventually be resolved.”  CCR, Embraer  Banco Santander Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s
biggest bank, gained 1.5 percent to 14.45 reais as Chief
Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said the bank’s profit will
“return to normal” in the next three years as revenue from
emerging markets drives growth. Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias,
 Brazil ’s biggest toll-road operator, advanced 2.8 percent after
it was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at Banco BTG Pactual.  OHL Mexico SAB, the local unit of Spanish construction
company Obrascon Huarte Lain SA, jumped 4.4 percent in Mexico
City, the most among stocks in the IPC benchmark measure.  The Mexican peso depreciated 1.1 percent versus the dollar,
the worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies.
Russia’s ruble fell 0.8 percent and India’s rupee weakened 0.5
percent. Poland’s zloty strengthened 0.7 percent against the
 U.S. dollar , the best gainer among the developing-nation
currencies.  Russia’s Micex Index advanced 2.2 percent, led by OAO
Sberbank with a 5.5 percent gain. The BUX gauge in  Hungary 
advanced 1.2 percent, led by Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the country’s
former phone monopoly.  Turkish Speculation  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  rose 1.7 percent to 7.36 liras,
extending this week’s gains to 8.2 percent. Turkey’s stocks are
being bolstered by speculation the country will see more rating
upgrades, said Mine Yoruk, a trader at Erste Securities in
Istanbul.  Standard & Poor’s  lifted the country’s local-currency
debt to investment grade on Sept. 20.  Commodity producers slid amid concern slower growth in
China will reduce demand for raw materials.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents to a Bloomberg poll said
China’s gross domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last
quarter, will gain less than 5 percent annually by 2016. China
is the world’s largest consumer of commodities from copper to
zinc and  iron ore .  Jiangxi Copper Co. fell 2.7 percent in Shanghai trading and
PT Bumi Resources,  Asia ’s biggest exporter of power-station
coal, sank 5.9 percent in Jakarta. CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets cut
the stock to “underperform” from “buy,” saying the
Indonesian company’s plan to reduce debt is progressing more
slowly than expected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  