-- 
Energy Department Is No Venture Capitalist: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-09-29T00:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/energy-department-no-venture-capitalist-commentary-by-stephen-l-carter.html
It isn’t hard to predict how the
controversy over defunct solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC will
end. Congressional Republicans will in due course issue a final
report decrying crony capitalism and demanding an end to the
federal program of loan guarantees to alternative energy
companies.  Democrats will respond with a dissent, concluding that no
rules were broken or even bent, but proposing, just in case, the
addition of a new layer of expensive bureaucratic overseers atop
the program.  Certainly there will be plenty of grist for both mills.
Solyndra’s decision to file for bankruptcy and dismiss more than
1,000 employees after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee
from the  Energy Department  is a black eye for the program,
especially now that journalists have uncovered many red flags
that bureaucrats missed along the way. And the insistence by the
White House that no political favors were involved fails to pass
the giggle test.  On the other hand, with commercial lending markets still
largely locked up, and the need for the development of
alternative fuels as pressing as ever, a better-managed program
of loan guarantees has an undeniable appeal.  And if the Republicans are right that the process by which
Solyndra was approved stinks of cronyism, the Democrats are
right in pointing out that plenty of Republican lawmakers have
fought for federal loans and grants for questionable projects in
their own districts. (Indeed, as reported by Bloomberg News’s
Jim Snyder, Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform -- whose questions
top executives of Solyndra declined to answer last week on Fifth
Amendment grounds -- pressed for a  loan  for a local company
under the very green-energy program against which he is now
thundering.)  Still, “everybody does it” smacks of desperation when you
happen to be the fellow caught with your hand in the cookie jar.
Thus Democrats and their allies have also offered a quite
different and more sophisticated defense of the Solyndra loan.
The green-energy program, they contend, was created on the
assumption that a certain number of its beneficiaries -- the
figure 15 percent has been bandied about -- would fail. But this
would be more than compensated by the 85 percent that succeeded.  That relatively high expected failure rate, together with
the fact that the Energy Department’s portfolio of green-loan
guarantees stands near $30 billion, has led some observers to
argue that the program should be considered as analogous to a
venture capital shop. The department, after all, is putting
money into lots of startups, knowing that some will fail, but
betting that a few will hit it big.  Government Making Bets  True, the program deals with loans rather than making
investments -- but we are speaking here of an analogy, not an
identity.  Like the Energy Department program, the venture capitalist
makes bets, many of them very high risk, on many companies that
otherwise would have trouble raising capital, except perhaps at
prohibitive cost.  Yet the analogy fails because the venture capitalist is
disciplined in his lending by two forces that government does
not face. First, if the venture capitalist makes too many bad
bets, he will lose his investors. Government loan guarantee
programs, on the other hand, can be refunded by Congress as
often as politically convenient, and have been known to grow
larger after making bad bets.  Second, venture capitalists face potential liability for
breach of fiduciary duty if they fail in the duty of care and
loyalty imposed by law on those private individuals who handle
other people’s money. Government officials and departments, with
minor exceptions, are shielded from lawsuits by the doctrine of
sovereign immunity.  There is no way to subject a federal loan guarantee program
to the discipline of the markets, and that might be reason
enough for the government to stay out of the business of picking
winners and losers. But if the program is here to stay, perhaps
we should seek to discipline its administration through the
alternative route: a partial waiver of sovereign immunity.  The case for sovereign immunity is strongest when liability
would interfere with core functions of government: the provision
of security, for example. But even there, a partial waiver of
sovereign immunity has occurred: Law enforcement officials are
subject to civil suits for violations of rights.  The case for sovereign immunity is weakest when government
is largely providing goods or services that have duplicates or
analogues in the market. Suppose that in a town with two grocery
stores, the state is unhappy with the way the stores are
operating, and decides to open a third -- but immunizes the
store from suit, in the case, say, of selling adulterated food.  An Implicit Subsidy  This implicit subsidy would have two bad effects: First,
it would provide an undeserved cost advantage to the state-owned
store, which would not be required to insure against liability;
second, it would reduce the incentive of the state-owned store
to take adequate precautions to ensure the freshness and purity
of its wares. (If you believe that competition would be adequate
to provide the incentive, then there is no need for the private
stores to be liable either.)  This argument would seem to apply a fortiori when the
government decides, in effect, to operate a venture capital
shop, providing loans to selected private businesses in order to
help them become growing concerns.  One might object that in some cases private equity
investments have slowed. Thus the loan guarantees might be
necessary as a demand-side stimulus, and should be considered
closer to a core government function than to the duplication of
a service available in the market.  But it is not clear that this is so, particularly in the
market for alternative energy. Solyndra was able to raise
hundreds of millions in cash before the federal loan was awarded
and, according to some experts, could have raised more if needed
-- except that  the federal loan became an obstacle , because the
government initially had priority over other lenders in case of
default.  Some might also object that the prospect of facing personal
liability would distract federal officials from a proper
performance of their jobs, and that departmental liability might
lead to damages that would waste taxpayer funds. These are
strong arguments, but they are just as strong when made against
lawsuits in the private sector, where the risk of liability is a
constant but necessary distraction, and where corporate
liability hits the pockets of investors and consumers.  Liability is one risk of running a company that picks
winners and losers in the marketplace. If the alternative energy
loan guarantee program would be unable to function in the face
of potential liability, one might reasonably ask whether it
should exist at all.  (Stephen L. Carter , a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a  Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 