-- 
Engine Lease Seeks 25% of Market After Macquarie Deal

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-30T13:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/engine-lease-seeks-quarter-of-global-market-after-macquarie-deal.html
(Corrects number of spare engines required for short-haul
versus long-haul planes, in eighth paragraph)  Engine Lease Finance Corp., a
subsidiary of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., is targeting a
quarter of the global jet-engine leasing market to challenge
incumbents  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Rolls-Royce Plc.  The company agreed on Sept. 28 to buy 47  aircraft engines 
from  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  The transaction brings Engine Lease’s
portfolio to almost 300 engines, making it the biggest
independent lessor, and the No. 3 behind GE and Rolls-Royce,
said Jon Sharp, chief executive officer of Shannon, Ireland-
based ELFC.  “The bank has continued to favor engine leasing and wants
to grow our profile,” said Sharp, a 20-year veteran of Rolls-
Royce’s repair and overhaul business. “This represents another
step in that strategy, and the acquisition brings us not very
far behind those two.”  The business of aircraft-engine leasing has existed for
just over two decades, following in the footsteps of aircraft
leasing that now makes up 35 percent of all orders in the $70-
billion-a-year airliner business. Leasing engines helps airlines
better manage the so-called residual value of spare powerplants
that they have on hold to keep their fleets running.  With the Macquarie purchase, ELFC lifts its stake of the
global engine-lease market to about 21 percent from 16 percent,
Sharp said. General Electric has about 28 percent, and Rolls
Royce & Partners Finance, a joint venture with rail-car lessor
 GATX Corp. (GMT) , has 27 percent.  ‘Wasn’t Enough’  “We felt 16 percent wasn’t enough, and we should be aiming
for 25 percent,” Sharp said.  Aircraft manufacturers require airlines to buy spare
engines to ensure that fleets can operate without interruption
when engines have to be removed from under the wing either after
damage, or for scheduled inspections and repairs, Sharp said.  With single-aisle planes, airlines typically need eight
extra engines for every 100 flying, and they need about 12 for
widebody, long-haul planes, which fly fewer cycles because the
flights are longer though have longer route structures,
requiring spare engine support at both ends.  Airlines ask engine lessors to assume order positions for
them, make pre-delivery payments, and then lease the engines
back to the airlines for 10 years on day of delivery. That way,
airlines get the engines off their balance sheets, and they can
sell them to the engine lessors at a profit because they get
discounts buying engines in bulk, Sharp said.  “That makes use of airlines’ purchasing power,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 