-- 
England Coaches Are Suspended for Swapping Match Balls at Rugby World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-29T06:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/england-coaches-are-suspended-for-switching-match-balls-at-rugby-world-cup.html
England kicking coach Dave Alred
and fitness specialist Paul Stridgeon were suspended for the
 Rugby World Cup  Pool B decider against Scotland for swapping
balls in the team’s last game.  Alred and Stridgeon were found to have illegally switched
match balls during England’s 67-3 win over Romania on Sept. 24
in Dunedin,  New Zealand . They were reprimanded and suspended
following an internal Rugby Football Union review after
tournament organizers opened an investigation into the matter,
the RFU said.  “It’s unfortunate that we have had to take this action but
ultimately there was a breach of the laws of the game,” England
team manager  Martin Johnson  said in a statement. “But it’s
happened, some action has been taken and we have to move on.”  The suspension means that Alred and Stridgeon will be
banned from entering Auckland’s  Eden Park  for the match against
Scotland in three days. England is seeking its fourth straight
win to guarantee a spot in the quarterfinals.  Alred and Stridgeon had mistakenly thought that there was
an issue with some of the match balls used in the Romania match,
the  RFU  said.  “Those team management members took it upon themselves to
substitute balls during the match in contravention of both the
laws of the game and the spirit of the game,” English rugby’s
governing body added.  Rugby  World Cup  Ltd., which runs the 20-nation tournament,
said it welcomed the RFU’s “timely and decisive action.”  “RWCL recognizes that the RFU has investigated this matter
fully and taken appropriate action and therefore no further
action is required,” it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  