-- 
ENRC Reshuffle May Fail to Reverse Losses on Board Conflict

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-09-29T15:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/enrc-reshuffle-may-fail-to-reverse-share-loss-on-board-conflict.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.,
which has lost almost half its value since its chief executive
officer resigned in February, may fail to reverse losses with a
board reshuffle as analysts seek clarity on who is in control.  ENRC, a ferroalloys producer in  Kazakhstan , announced the
result of a three-month review of its management yesterday after
a conflict prompted CEO Felix Vulis to resign and shareholders
voted against rehiring independent directors Richard Sykes and
Kenneth Olisa. The management will include six independent
directors on a board of 11, handing them a majority.  “We are attracted by the commodity mix, but expect the
share to trade at a discount until visibility improves on
strategy, growth, governance,” Ben Davis and Myles Allsop,
analysts in London at UBS AG, wrote in a report today. There is
a “risk of disappointment on the degree of change,” they said.  Vulis, who stayed on as CEO after resigning to allow the
company to seek a replacement, will now remain in his position,
while Johannes Sittard, a former CEO, will stay as chairman.  ENRC slid 0.5 percent to 576.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in London, after falling 30 percent since the review began June
8 and 46 percent since Vulis offered his resignation on Feb. 4.  “The performance of the company was never affected by
these issues,” Sittard said in e-mailed response to questions
today. “This is a strong, independent and unified board.”  ‘ Shareholder Value ’  ENRC founders Alexander Machkevitch, Alijan Ibragimov and
Patokh Chodiev own 14.6 percent of the London-based company,
which makes ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum and power in
Kazakhstan. Machkevitch applied to the U.K. Listing Authority
for clearance to be chairman, the Observer reported Sept. 11.  The company will seek to maximize “shareholder value”
after the review, newly appointed senior independent director
Mehmet Dalman said in the e-mail. The company wasn’t studying
selecting Machkevitch as chairman, Dalman said yesterday.  “We question whether all that much has really changed,”
Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a note today. “To our mind a
number of questions remain and confusion surrounding who
ultimately drives the company is likely to linger.”  A row between independent directors and major shareholders
began August 2009 as Chairman David Cooksey was replaced by
Sittard, then CEO, and Vulis was hired, Olisa said on June 10.  “We feel problems arose in the first instance because the
oligarchs had no direct representative at board level,” Liberum
wrote. “Like it or like it not, we feel the appointment of
Machkevitch as chairman, together with a majority independent
board would have put to bed the issue once and for all.”  Glencore Plan?  Glencore International Plc, the commodities trader reported
to have studied a bid, may still be interested, Liberum said.  London ’s Sunday Times reported June 12 that Glencore was
considering a 12 billion-pound ($19 billion) takeover and had
held talks with shareholders. Glencore said in a June 15
statement it was “not in active consideration of an offer.”  The U.K. Takeover Panel barred Glencore from bidding for
ENRC for six months following the company’s announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 