-- 
Enterprise, Enbridge Propose Keystone Pipeline Alternative

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-09-29T20:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/enterprise-enbridge-propose-oil-pipeline-to-reduce-cushing-glut.html
Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  plan to build a 500-mile (800-kilometer) pipeline
to move crude from a bottleneck at Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
refineries on the U.S.  Gulf Coast .  The proposed Wrangler pipeline will be capable of moving as
much as 800,000 barrels a day and may be in service by mid-2013,
the companies said in a statement today. Bart Moore, a spokesman
for Houston-based Enterprise Products, declined to say how much
the project would cost.  The pipeline represents the first step in an effort by
Calgary-based Enbridge to bring Canadian crude to the Gulf, Mark
Chevalier, a senior consultant with Purvin & Gertz Inc., said in
an interview today. The system would compete with  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline, which would
also take crude from  Alberta ’s  oil sands  to Texas refineries.  “What they’re trying to do is dominate that route to push
all the other pipelines out,” said Paul Euseppi, an analyst
with Dallas-based Swank Capital LLC, which manages about $1.5
billion and including stock in Enterprise and an Enbridge
subsidiary. The pipeline may cost more than $1 billion, he said.  Technology to produce crude from U.S. shale-rock formations
and Canadian oil sands has increased production and led to a
glut at the Cushing storage hub. A lack of pipeline capacity to
move the petroleum to refineries has caused the price of West
Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, to trade at almost
$27 less per barrel than imported oil.  Earlier Pipeline Plan  Enterprise Products called off a previous plan to build a
Cushing-to-Gulf pipeline with Energy Transfer Partners LP on
Aug. 19 after the proposal failed to draw sufficient commitments
from shippers.  The difference between the two plans is Enbridge’s ability
to attract interest from oil producers in  Canada  for a complete
line originating in Alberta, Purvin & Gertz’s Chevalier said.  Enbridge announced in August that it is considering
building a “Monarch North” pipeline that could move crude from
 Chicago  to Cushing, as well expanding its existing ability to
deliver oil from Alberta to Chicago.  Oil Sands Surge  The proposal may affect other pipelines between Cushing and
the Gulf Coast. ConocoPhillips, which owns the Seaway pipeline
jointly with Enterprise, may be pressured to reverse the line or
sell its share, Bradley Olsen, a Houston-based analyst with
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., said in a note to clients.  “The cost of a Seaway reversal would be substantially
lower than the new Wrangler pipeline,” said Olsen, who rates
Enterprise’s units at “accumulate” and owns none.  Production from Alberta’s oil sands is expected to double
to more than 3.7 million barrels a day by 2025, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  The Keystone XL, which is awaiting U.S. State Department
approval because it crosses an international border, was
intended to address that increase when it was proposed in 2008.
The project is opposed by some environmentalists and landowners.  Enterprise Products fell 13 cents to $40.37 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Enbridge rose 33
cents to C$33.25 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in  Dallas  at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  