-- 
Europe Prepares Next Crisis Steps After Merkel Rescue-Fund Parliament Win

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-30T11:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/merkel-s-rescue-fund-victory-sets-stage-for-next-steps-in-euro-debt-crisis.html
European leaders are turning their
focus to the next steps to stem the region’s debt crisis after
German lawmakers approved an expansion of the euro-area rescue
fund’s firepower.  With the European Commission now expecting the overhauled
440 billion-euro ($594 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility in place by mid-October, euro finance chiefs will next
week discuss accelerating enactment of a permanent rescue fund
that provides more capital and a tool for managing defaults.  “I’m not convinced that this bailout package is going to
be remotely enough for the euro zone itself,”  Wilbur Ross , the
billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “I think it should start with a ‘T,’ not
a ‘B,’” he said, referring to trillions instead of billions.  European officials are also studying measures that include
leveraging the EFSF, said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . There may be “an
orderly Greek default later this year, with a haircut on Greek
debt, an immediate recapitalization of Greek banks, European
guarantees for restructured Greek debt and conditional fiscal
support” for Greece, he said.  Papandreou in Paris  With concern growing that  Greece  will be unable to avoid
default, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  meets French
President Nicolas Sarkozy at 5 p.m. today in Paris after seeing
European Union President Herman Van Rompuy in Warsaw.  In Berlin, the upper house of parliament, or Bundesrat,
approved the enhanced fund today after the lower house voted 523
in favor and 85 against. Lawmakers approved giving the EFSF
powers to buy bonds in secondary markets, enable bank
recapitalizations and offer precautionary credit lines. It
raises Germany’s guarantees to 211 billion euros from 123
billion euros.  “The situation on the international financial markets is
worrying,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told the
Bundesrat today. He said the EFSF upgrade is “urgent.”  After the likely ratification by  Austria  today, four
nations will still have to vote on the measure. The European
Commission said the expanded rescue fund is set to be in place
by mid-October.  Fund Phase-In  Even before it’s in place, European governments are moving
toward enacting the permanent fund next year, a year sooner than
planned, to replace the EFSF. Phasing in the permanent fund,
known as the European Stability Mechanism, would provide a 500
billion-euro war chest. It also includes provisions for sharing
costs with bondholders for countries with “unsustainable”
debt.  Additional measures now in play include reopening the
second Greek rescue agreed in July to increase the financial
industry’s contribution and creating a safety net for Europe’s
banks.  Merkel’s alliance of  Christian Democrats  and Free Democrats
mustered enough votes in the lower house to pass the changes on
the strength of her ruling majority. That meant she didn’t
depend on the opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens, both of
which also backed the bill.  “In the end, the unity of the coalition was stronger than
the dissent,”  Peter Altmaier , parliamentary whip of Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , told ZDF television. Even so, “we
will have to deal with this issue for some time yet.”  Merkel Win  Merkel, who heads the biggest country contributing to
bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, spent weeks cajoling
dissenters in her coalition to back the July 21 accord by euro-
area leaders to expand the fund. Resistance was most vocal from
members of the Free Democratic Party, Merkel’s junior coalition
ally that has flirted with an anti-bailout stance.  Provisions inserted into the bill to satisfy  Germany ’s
constitutional court and potential rebels will allow lawmakers
to vote on all new aid requests from the fund.  Almost two years into the debt crisis centered on Greece,
the U.S. is urging European governments to go further and show
more urgency. Europeans haven’t responded “as effectively as
they needed to,” President  Barack Obama  said during a
roundtable discussion at the White House this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at   bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  