-- 
Merrill Lynch Wealth Shuns Treasuries, Bunds on Recession Doubts

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-29T09:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/merrill-lynch-wealth-shuns-treasuries-bunds-on-recession-doubts.html
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth
Management is shunning “expensive” debt from the U.S., U.K. or
euro-region core in favor of local-currency denominated Asian
bonds as a global double-dip recession is unlikely.  The company, which oversees more than $1.2 trillion, sees
more value in developing nations’ securities, betting their
currencies are more likely to appreciate, said  Bill O’Neill ,
chief investment officer for  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa .
Merrill Lynch views Irish bonds as having the best potential
among euro-area securities in the next three to six months. The
company is underweight sovereign bonds, meaning it keeps its
holdings of such debt below levels recommended by benchmark
indexes used to gauge performance.  “Short of a rerun of a  Japan  experience in these
countries, I don’t see significant value in these bonds relative
to other asset classes,” said London-based O’Neill in an
interview. Japan has struggled with deflation since a recession
two decades ago.  Bond yields of top-rated nations such as the U.S.,  Germany 
and the U.K. fell to records this month as investors sought
havens amid signs that the global economic recovery is
sputtering two years after the deepest recession since the
1930s. Rates have also been driven down as a debt crisis in the
euro region deepened.  ‘Excessive Premiums’  German 10-year yields will need to rise to about 2.5
percent to 3 percent from less than 2 percent today before
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth considers investing in the
securities.  “We need to see safe-haven premiums washed out before we
buy them,” said O’Neill. “These excessive premiums were driven
by the need to preserve capital. They are too expensive in our
view. I don’t see yields at these levels as having a basis for a
healthy return.”  An auction of five-year German notes yesterday only drew
bids from banks that are obliged to participate in debt sales,
according to six people with knowledge of the offer.  Central banks in the U.S., the euro-area and the U.K. have
implemented programs of asset purchases to inject stimulus into
their slowing economies. The  European Central Bank  began buying
bonds in May 2010 to stabilize markets rocked by the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  European Turmoil  O’Neill said it was unlikely the world will sink back into
recession, even as developed economies reduce investment to pay
down their national debts.  “I have no doubt central bankers still have adequate tools
in the box to support growth,” said O’Neill. “They can do
further quantitative measures that are more focused than in
previous rounds.”  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for global
growth on Sept. 20 and predicted “severe” repercussions if
Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or if U.S. policy makers
fail to resolve a deadlock over the nation’s fiscal plan.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said on Sept. 20, compared with its June forecasts of
4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012. Its U.S. growth
projection for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent
in June. In the euro area, the IMF cut its prediction to 1.6
percent from 2 percent for this year and to 1.1 percent from 1.7
percent for next year.  Interest Rates   The ECB’s bond-purchase program differs from the policies
pursued by the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of England  because
it mops up, or sterilizes, the liquidity created by its asset
purchases, meaning the net effect on the  money supply  is
neutral.  O’Neill predicts the ECB may stop sterilizing its bond
purchases or cut interest rates later this year.  “The process of debt deleveraging still has a long way to
run and that will leave the economy susceptible to shocks,” he
said. “There are countries that still enjoy growth, such as
Germany and the emerging-market block. They should be prepared
to stimulate the economy to offset the impact from austerity
measures elsewhere.”  Merrill Lynch Global Wealth is also avoiding bonds from the
euro region’s most indebted countries, O’Neill said. Ireland and
Portugal followed  Greece  this year in requesting financial aid
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
Greece has since sought a second bailout.  The company may consider buying Ireland’s debt in the near
future as the nation has made the most progress in stabilizing
its debt and economy, he said.  Irish bonds handed investors a 7 percent return this year,
beating all peers in the so-called euro-area periphery,
including Greece, whose bonds lost 41 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  “It’s too early to move into the periphery market, but we
may be reaching that point within the next three-to-six
months,” O’Neill said. “We want to see the economy moving from
a primary deficit into a balance or a surplus. Ireland is in a
better position to achieve this before Greece or  Portugal  -- it
would be the one we are most likely to buy in that market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 