-- 
Ethiopia Sells Bonds to Finance Africa’s Biggest Power Plant

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T14:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ethiopia-sells-bonds-to-finance-africa-s-biggest-power-plant.html
Ethiopia  plans to offer more bonds
to finance  Africa ’s biggest power plant after selling 7 billion
birr ($408 million) of debt domestically over the past six
months, Communications Minister Bereket Simon said.  The sale will contribute to the 80 billion birr needed to
finish the 5,250-megawatt Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam on the
Blue Nile River, Bereket said in an interview on Sept. 27. The
country isn’t raising funds from foreigners in a bid to
demonstrate its economic resurgence, he said.  Ethiopia, source of the main tributary of the Nile River,
started building the hydropower plant in April as it seeks to
become a regional electricity exporter amid shortages in
countries including  Kenya , Sudan and  Uganda . The Horn of Africa
nation, which relies on commodities such as coffee for most of
its foreign currency, is also diversifying an economy that the
 African Development Bank  says may double in size by 2020.  “Building a dam on the Nile has been the dream of every
Ethiopian,” said Bereket, who heads a so-called public
mobilization council to raise funds for the project. “For
millennia, we have been looking at the Nile as if it has been a
curse that took our fertile soil and benefited others while
Ethiopia was impoverished.”  Egypt  depends on the flow of the Nile for all of its water
and historically opposed infrastructure projects by upstream
nations during former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule, according
to Ethiopia’s government. Since Mubarak was deposed in February,
Egyptian and Ethiopian officials have met twice and relations
are improving, Bereket said, without elaborating.  Bigger Than  Singapore   The hydropower plant is scheduled to be completed by mid-
2017. The project involves building a dam wall 145 meters (476
feet) high and 1.8 kilometers long, before flooding 1,680 square
kilometers (649 square miles), an area more than twice the size
of Singapore, of mostly uninhabited forest on the Blue Nile in
the western Benishangul-Gumuz region.  The government’s plan to borrow 398.4 billion birr by mid-
2015 to invest in industry and infrastructure may lead to the
economy over-heating and debt problems, the  World Bank  said in
June. Annual inflation in Ethiopia was 40.6 percent in August,
partly because the central bank boosted  money supply .  Ethiopia, Africa’s second-most populous nation, has been
ruled by former rebel Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s ruling party
since 1991 when the military junta of Mengistu Haile Mariam was
overthrown. The economy, which ranks as Africa’s fourth-biggest,
grew 9.9 percent in 2009, the fastest rate on the continent.  Sufficient Capacity  “The financial capacity to build the dam I don’t think
should be in doubt at all,” Zemedeneh Negatu, managing partner
for Ernst & Young LLP in Ethiopia, said in an interview on Sept.
22. “Over the next six years, Ethiopia can collect from taxes
somewhere between 450 and 500 billion birr.”  Donations of a month’s salary by civil servants have been
converted into bonds to help boost the nation’s savings rate,
currently 5.5 percent of gross domestic product, Bereket said.
Public funding is unlikely to be maintained as it would be “too
taxing,” so private companies have been encouraged to buy the
debt, which offers a coupon of 5 percent.  There are also plans for bonds to be offered to the
Ethiopian diaspora with returns above the London Interbank
Offered Rate, while sales to farmers are planned “early next
year,” he said.  Opposition Criticism  The opposition Oromo People’s Congress criticized the fund-
raising methods being used for what it said is an otherwise
popular project.  “In a university of several thousand, the president said
because five people spoke they all agreed to donate one month’s
salary,” Merera Gudina, chairman of the opposition OPC and
professor of political science at  Addis Ababa  University, said
in an interview in the capital on Sept. 21.  A “significant” portion of funding will also come from
the government’s development budget, Bereket said. A National
Bank of Ethiopia directive issued in April compelling banks to
buy  government bonds  equivalent to 27 percent of their loans
each month may raise 11 billion birr for development programs in
its first year, according to Access Capital, the Addis Ababa-
based research group. That amount is likely to increase in
subsequent years, it said in an April research note.  Ethiopia will generate most of the electricity that will be
traded among nine countries that are expected to connect to a
regional grid by 2016, according to the  Eastern Africa Power
Pool , an Addis Ababa-based body that facilitates regional
integration. The country started exports to Djibouti in May, a
transmission line to  Sudan  may be completed by January and a
feasibility study for a link to Kenya has been finished.  The dam, situated about 30 kilometers (18 miles) from the
Sudanese border, is “very critical” for Ethiopia to achieve
its industrialization goals and for neighboring states, said
Zemedeneh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 