-- 
EU Economic Confidence Drop Exceeds Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-29T10:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/eu-economic-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook dropped more than economists forecast in September to
the lowest in almost two years, reflecting growing concern that
the worsening debt crisis could push the euro region into a
recession.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 95 from a revised 98.4 in August, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since December 2009 and below 96 projected by economists,
according to the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe ’s economy is showing increasing signs of a slowdown
as governments struggle to contain the fiscal crisis and avert a
Greek default. About three-quarters of global investors surveyed
by Bloomberg this week anticipate the euro region will fall into
a recession during the next 12 months, with more than a third
predicting the European debt crisis will derail the world
economy in that period.  “The escalating sovereign-debt crisis and the resulting
tensions in the banking sector are clearly weighing on sentiment
and activity,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Indeed, we expect the economy to
contract in the third and fourth quarter.”  The euro was higher against the dollar amid speculation
German lawmakers will approve the expansion of the euro-area
bailout fund to help contain the debt crisis. The euro traded at
$1.3649 at 12:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.8 percent on the day.  First Time  Manufacturing and services output contracted for the first
time in more than two years in September, euro-area data showed
last week. In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, business
sentiment decreased for a third month in September and investor
confidence dropped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers dropped
to minus 5.9 in September from minus 2.7 in the previous month,
today’s report showed. An indicator of services confidence fell
to zero from 3.7, while a measure of  consumer confidence 
decreased to minus 19.1 from minus 16.5. Sentiment among
builders also worsened in September. The commission had
previously reported an August reading of 98.3 for the overall
confidence indicator.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its euro-
region growth forecast for this year and next to 1.6 percent and
1.1 percent, respectively. The Washington-based IMF had
previously forecast the economy to expand 2 percent this year
and 1.7 percent in 2012. The  European Central Bank  forecasts
2012 growth of about 1.3 percent.  Output Expectations  A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ output expectations
dropped to 0.2 from 5.9 in the previous month, today’s report
showed. An indicator of order books slumped to minus 11.8, the
lowest since October, while a gauge of employment expectations
declined to minus 0.4 from 1.3 in August.  “A recession is becoming increasingly likely,” said
 Christoph Weil , an economist at Commmerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
after today’s report. “The escalating fiscal crisis is becoming
an increasing concern to companies and consumers.”  International finance ministers and central bankers at a
meeting in Washington earlier this month urged European
officials to intensify efforts to contain the region’s debt
crisis as  Greece  teetered on the edge of default. President
 Barack Obama  said yesterday that Europe’s debt turmoil continues
to be a drag on the  U.S. economy .  Worsening Turmoil  “In Europe, we haven’t seen them deal with their banking
system and their financial system as effectively as they needed
to,” Obama said yesterday in  Washington .  More than half of the respondents in Bloomberg’s quarterly
Global Poll predicted that banking-industry turmoil will worsen,
according to the survey of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers. Eighty-eight percent said the
region’s economy is deteriorating.  “For the next 12 months, the global economy will slow
materially with advanced economies struggling to grow much above
zero,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said on Sept. 24. “Emerging
economies will maintain faster growth, albeit not as high as the
last 12 months.”  ECB Governing Council members  Ewald Nowotny  and Luc Coene
said the central bank may look at stepping up efforts to boost
growth as soon as next month. They both identified renewed 12-
month lending to banks as an option. ECB Executive Board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said on Sept. 26 that it’s important to
“reassure the markets.”  ECB Pressure  Economists at  Barclays Capital ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc predict the ECB will be forced to
reverse course on interest rates after raising the benchmark
twice this year to 1.5 percent. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve 
has already pledged additional economic stimulus.  “Pressure on the ECB to cut rates appears to be increasing
by the day,” said analysts including Simon Smith at foreign-
exchange broker FXPro Group Ltd. in  London  in an e-mailed note
before today’s data were released. “A rate cut before the G-20
meeting on Nov. 3-4 is more likely than not and would confirm
our long-held belief that both the ECB’s rate increases were
misguided.”  The ECB will hold its next rate meeting on Oct. 6.
President Jean-Claude Trichet, who will retire at the end of
October, said last month that downside risks to the region’s
economic outlook have “intensified.” Trichet, 68, will be
replaced by Italy’s Mario Draghi.  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in
Dublin, said December may be the “most likely month” for the
ECB to cut borrowing costs if the central bank decides to lower
 interest rates  before year-end.  “There are substantial barriers” to lowering rates in
October, McQuaid said. “Not least that the meeting would
conclude Trichet’s term of office with a dramatic U-turn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  