-- 
EU Needs a ‘Stiff Back’ on Energy Policy, EON CEO Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-29T16:12:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/eu-needs-a-stiff-back-on-energy-policy-against-members-eon-ceo-says.html
The European Union needs to object
more stridently when member states propose energy policies and
subsidies that work against single power and natural gas markets
in the bloc, said Johannes Teyssen, chairman and chief executive
officer of  E.ON AG. (EOAN)   “You need to get a stiff back,” Teyssen said today at a
conference in Brussels. “You need to fundamentally intervene.”
Plans for single markets in power and natural gas were
struggling because many lawmakers are conflicted between
national and regional interests, Teyssen said. “Implementation
is derailing.”  The bloc will work harder to make energy rules more
consistent across its 27 members, said  Philip Lowe , director
general of the EU commission’s energy department, who was
speaking on the same panel. “We have a job with governments and
regulators to give them that predictability,” Lowe said.  The imposition of a 170-million-euro ($232 million) tax on
nuclear and hydro generation in Finland, as well as  Germany ’s
decision to introduce a levy on nuclear fuel rods, has drawn
attention to the political risks for investors in EU energy,
Peter Atherton, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said last month.
European government intervention has cut 200 billion euros from
utility share values since January 2009 and may depress them
further as states impose climate-protection rules, the bank said
Sept. 13.  The European Commission will give formal warnings to the
U.K.,  France  and 16 other countries for failing to submit full
details of plans to open up energy markets to competition, a
person familiar with the EU’s decision said today.  18 Warnings  The U.K., France, the Netherlands,  Spain , Sweden,  Finland ,
 Belgium , Austria, Ireland, Cyprus, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria,
Romania, Luxembourg, Lithuania and Estonia will receive the
warnings for failing to adopt national rules to liberalize
electricity markets, said the person, who couldn’t be identified
because the EU process isn’t public. Those countries and Denmark
will also be warned for failing to notify rules concerning gas
markets, the person said.  EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said today the
commission is warning 18 nations for delays that “seriously
risk undermining” EU efforts to trade more gas and electricity
within its borders, according to the prepared remarks of a
speech today in Brussels. He didn’t name the countries.  The EU is “not a stable political environment” and energy
utilities will struggle to raise the money needed to help the
region upgrade its energy assets to meet climate-protection
targets, said Jean Francois Cirelli, president of  GDF Suez. (GSZ)   “It is unimaginable it will be financed easily,” Cirelli
said today at the conference, citing figures from the
 International Energy Agency  that 2 billion euros a week is
needed for energy investments in the bloc. Energy markets need
to be more open in many nations, including the French power
market, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  