-- 
European Watchdog Warns Banks on Need for Consistent Writedowns

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-29T16:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/european-watchdog-says-short-selling-ban-exceptional-will-end.html
The head of  Europe ’s markets
regulator warned banks to be consistent in their valuations of
sovereign debt amid concern some lenders have failed to record
sufficient losses on Greek bonds.  Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European Securities and
Markets Authority, likened the lack of transparency about banks’
individual holdings of government debt to the subprime mortgages
that triggered the credit crisis.  “Lack of transparency regarding exposures to subprime
mortgages created a situation of uncertainty about the financial
positions of banks,” he said in a speech in Vienna today,
according to a transcript released by ESMA on its website.
Recently, “a lack of transparency from banks on their exposures
to sovereign debt and related instruments are generating new
suspicions about the conditions of individual banks and this
requires similar answers in terms of transparency.”  His comments follow criticism by the  International
Accounting Standards Board  that banks are failing to write down
the value of their Greek government debt to reflect market
prices. Lenders’ impairments on Greek government ranged from 6
percent to as much as 51 percent in the second quarter,
according to analysts at Citigroup Inc.  “We are currently looking at how banks are applying
International Financial Reporting Standards for the valuation of
sovereign debt,” Maijoor said. “It is very important for ESMA
that financial institutions apply IFRS correctly, and are
consistent in their valuations of sovereign debt exposures.”  The Paris-based ESMA coordinates the work of national
regulators in the 27-nation European Union. National regulators
should force their banks to apply IFRS correctly, he said. ESMA
is responsible for ensuring “consistent enforcement” across
the European Union, he said.  “This lack of accounting consistency reduces the
comparability of banks and insurers’ reported profits and book
equity,” Citigroup analysts led by Sarah Deans wrote in their
Sept. 8 report to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  