-- 
Europe to Push Debt Crisis to the Brink, Pimco’s Crescenzi Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 
2011-09-29T20:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/europe-to-push-debt-crisis-to-the-brink-pimco-s-crescenzi-says.html
Markets will still face volatility
stemming from the European debt crisis, even after  Germany 
approved an expansion of the region’s rescue fund, according to
Anthony Crescenzi of Pacific Investment Management Co.  “We don’t expect any major decisions to be made, the type
that would settle markets,” Crescenzi, who helps manage $1.3
trillion as executive vice president at Pimco in  Newport Beach ,
California, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart with
 Carol Massar  and Matt Miller.” “There will be continuous games
of chicken, so to speak, taking it to the brink and of course
causing tremendous uncertainty and volatility in markets.”  German lawmakers’ approval of an expansion of the euro-area
rescue fund’s firepower handed Chancellor Angela Merkel a
victory, a precursor to addition steps to stem the European debt
crisis.  “It was well known that it would pass,” Crescenzi said.
While there’s “quite a bit of agreement” in  France  and Germany
to keep the euro-zone intact, “there’s quite a bit of
disagreement with how to do that,” he said.  The measure approved by Germany grants the EFSF powers to
buy bonds in secondary markets, enable bank recapitalizations
and offer precautionary credit lines. It raises Germany’s
guarantees to 211 billion euros from 123 billion euros.  The next moves may include leveraging the 440 billion-euro
($598 billion) European Financial Stability Facility, said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler &
Co. in London. In addition, there may be “an orderly Greek
default later this year, with a haircut on Greek debt, an
immediate recapitalization of Greek banks, European guarantees
for restructured Greek debt and conditional fiscal support” for
 Greece , he said.  “The mechanisms aren’t in place right now to handle that
sort of thing,” Crescenzi said of a Greek default and an
increase in the scope of bailouts. “Not enough has been done.
There’s still lot of political pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  