-- 
South Africa Says Europe Is Taking Necessary Measures to Curb Debt Crisis

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-30T06:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/europe-misses-growth-plan-even-with-debt-package-gordhan-says.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said European nations don’t have a plan to
sustain economic growth in the region even though they’ve agreed
a bailout package to prevent debt defaults.  While the financial rescue gives “some confidence” to the
global economy, “there’s not yet a plan to ensure the long term
viability of the euro zone,” Gordhan said in a speech to the
French South African Chamber of Commerce in Johannesburg
yesterday.  Europe, which buys about a third of  South Africa ’s
manufactured goods, is curbing spending to help tackle a debt
crisis that threatens to engulf Italy as Greece faces default.
Brazil, Russia,  India ,  China  and South Africa, which are members
of the BRICS political group, agreed in  Washington  this weekend
to help bolster the global economy.  “The commitment that the BRICS countries have made to
 Europe  and the United States is that we will do whatever
possible to assist in whatever way possible,” Gordhan said.
“But it is important that those who are in the epicenter of the
crisis provide the signals and the leadership that is required
to indicate that they’re getting on top of these problems.”  The slowdown in Europe threatens growth in Africa’s largest
economy, which grew an annualized 1.3 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in almost two years. Citigroup Inc.
yesterday cut its 2012 growth forecast for South Africa to 2.8
percent from 3.5 percent, and said the economy will expand 3
percent this year, compared with a previous forecast of 3.4
percent.  Bailout Plan  German lawmakers yesterday supported a plan to increase the
size of the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) European Financial
Stability Facility to help prevent debt defaults in the region.
BRIC nations are willing to buy European bonds and increase
funding to the  International Monetary Fund  to help ease the debt
crisis, Gordhan said on Sept. 28.  The rand had its worst weekly decline since October 2008
last week, plunging 7.9 percent to as low as 8.6165 against the
dollar, before paring losses. It is 17 percent weaker this year,
the worst performing of the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The rand traded at 7.9788 to the dollar as of 8:13
a.m. Johannesburg time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  