-- 
European Financial Transaction Tax Unlikely, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-09-29T11:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/european-financial-transaction-tax-unlikely-credit-suisse-says.html
The  European Commission ’s proposed
financial-transaction tax, which would impose a levy on stock,
bond and derivative trading, is unlikely to be implemented,
according to Credit Suisse analysts.  “At this stage we are skeptical that a Europe-wide
transaction tax will be implemented,” London-based analysts led
by Carla Antunes-Silva wrote in a note to clients today.  If the tax was agreed by all 27 members of the European
Union, it would have a “very negative” impact on markets,
particularly affecting investment banks, exchanges and high-
frequency trading platforms, the analysts said.  The U.K., whose agreement is needed for the tax to be
implemented, says it will approve the EU measure when the rest
of the world does likewise. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  proposed the tax yesterday, saying it could raise 57
billion euros ($77.7 billion) annually from 2014.  The idea would allow the financial industry to make “a
fair contribution at a time of fiscal consolidation,” according
to the commission, the EU’s executive arm. A transactions tax
should be imposed irrespective of whether non-members agree,
according to France and  Germany .  The British government “will continue to engage with its
international partners on financial-transaction taxes and has no
objection to them in principle,” the Treasury said in a
statement yesterday. “But any financial transaction tax would
have to apply globally and there are a number of practical
issues that need to be worked through.”  ‘Considerable Way Off’  U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told Bloomberg
Television “we do not think taxation is a matter for the
European Union, it’s a national responsibility; we set our own
taxes and we’re going to stay with that.” The measure has also
been opposed by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  The proposal may become a tax on financial companies’
customers rather than the firms themselves and the threat of
companies leaving the EU or setting up units abroad to avoid the
measure are further barriers, Chris Sanger, London-based head of
 tax policy  at Ernst & Young said in an e-mailed statement.  “Given the significance of these unknowns and the long-
standing divergences in national opinions, any binding decision
on a pan-European financial transaction tax still looks to be a
considerable way off,” said Sanger.  The proposal would apply a tax of 0.1 percent on trading of
stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  