-- 
European Watchdog’s Chairman Says Complex ETFs ‘a Concern’

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-29T08:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/european-watchdog-s-chairman-says-complex-etfs-are-a-concern-.html
European regulators are concerned
retail investors are buying more complex exchange-traded funds
in search of higher returns, said Steven Maijoor, chairman of
the European Securities and Markets Authority.  There is demand by consumers looking for higher returns and
“there are all kinds of structured products that are a response
to this demand,” Maijoor told journalists in Vienna late
yesterday. “We can see that more and more complex products end
up in the hands of retail investors,” he added. “That’s a
concern for us.”  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks. They became more popular in the aftermath
of the 2008 sell-off that wiped $37 trillion from global equity
markets because they carry lower fees than other funds, require
lower initial investment than futures, can be traded throughout
the day and cover most indexes.  While the $2.3 billion trading loss  UBS AG (UBSN)  disclosed
earlier this month was also linked to ETF trading, Maijoor said
it wasn’t clear whether it was “inherently” linked to the fact
the employee accused of causing the losses was trading in the
funds.  “On UBS I’d like to say the facts of the case are not
clear,” Maijoor said. “It’s not clear from what I’m reading in
the newspapers whether the problem was inherently related to
ETFs or whether it could have happened in any derivatives
trade,” he said. “We need to wait for the facts.”  More Complex  Maijoor said new ETF varieties were more complex than the
straightforward traditional versions and the risks they entailed
for investors and financial stability needed to be analyzed.
Britain’s Financial Services Authority and the Bank of England’s
Financial Policy Committee have this year also warned of a lack
of transparency in the ETF market.  “The classical ETF was a product where if you followed an
index you would buy, let’s say, the most important stocks of an
index and they would be your ETF,” he said. “There is now
financial engineering” in the design of so-called synthetic
ETFs and “we think it needs to be closely looked at whether
those new products are solid, are safe, and don’t have any
stability issue.”  ESMA doesn’t have the power to ban such products for
certain consumers yet and Maijoor said he hoped the watchdog
would get this authority in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  