-- 
Euro Area’s Rescue Options Are Shrinking Fast: Anil K Kashyap

-- B y   A n i l   K   K a s h y a p
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/euro-area-s-rescue-options-are-shrinking-fast-commentary-by-anil-kashyap.html
One of the benefits of being an
academic economist is that market participants and government
officials will often tell you what they think in relatively
frank terms.  Here is what I learned in dozens of meetings last week in
Frankfurt, Madrid and London:  -- There is wide agreement that the status quo is
unsustainable, and no one is optimistic about the future. The
elevated cost of borrowing for banks and some governments must
be addressed within weeks or at most a couple of months.  -- The euro area needs more integration and cooperation or
it will dissolve. European central bankers say a breakup would
cost a lot more than maintaining the union, yet they admit that
there are severe -- and possibly insurmountable -- political
impediments to getting  Germany  to guarantee other countries’
debt.  -- The prescription for what needs to be done has evolved
in recent months. Many outside experts long believed that the
largest European banks were seriously undercapitalized. The core
of the problem was the high levels of sovereign debt that had
not been marked to market that are held by banks in many
countries. For example, Spanish banks at the end of 2010 had 230
billion euros of government debt from troubled countries, though
less than 7 percent of those assets were marked to market.  Bank Assets  The lame stress tests conducted by the European Banking
Authority this year found no capital problems and ignored the
possibility of a sovereign default. As a result, the tests
failed to convince markets of the banks’ solvency. A European
version of the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program would have
been an obvious way to address the capital shortage, and the
European Financial Stability Facility appeared poised to take on
this task, provided its size was increased.  But three things changed. First, the stability fund was
increased by too little to credibly tackle all the problems.  Second, it is now clear that even this smaller version
faces major opposition in several countries. Ultimately, it
probably will be approved, but there is no chance it would
survive another round of parliamentary votes if it needed to be
rescaled.  Third, and most important, the markets have concluded that
Spanish and especially Italian sovereign debt should carry a
substantial  risk premium .  Italy ’s sovereign borrowing costs are
now 3.5 percentage points above those for Germany. It is
doubtful Italy can afford to keep paying such high rates for
very much longer. Thus,  Europe  can no longer just worry about
what to do about bank’s losses on existing assets.  Insuring Italian Debt  Any satisfactory outcome to the crisis must also ensure
that buyers can be found for Italian debt at prices the country
can afford. This is a major challenge, as Italy needs to borrow
hundreds of billions of euros each year.  Worse yet, a dysfunctional policy-making process is
exacerbating the crisis. The only common aspect of the decisions
so far is that they have been temporary. European politicians
haven’t decided at any point what they wanted the final outcome
to be. Doing so would have allowed them to better determine the
incremental steps needed to achieve the long-term result.
Instead, each pledge of “no more bailouts after this one”
limits future options.  The demise of the stability fund is a consequence of this
myopic approach. At first, the fund’s mandate was restricted to
attract support from member states. Later, when the scope of
action was broadened, the amount of money was restricted as a
way to make the new mandate more palatable to opponents. The
result was a series of compromises that amounted to throwing the
baby out with the bath water.  German Resistance  Issuing joint euro bonds was another option that could have
raised capital to shore up the banks and perhaps make funding
costs manageable. Again, politicians resisted; in addition,
Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court created serious
roadblocks by requiring parliamentary approval for any rescue.
The euro-bond option now appears to be off the table.  This leaves only one realistic option: The  European Central
Bank  must be prepared to buy any new debt, potentially in huge
amounts. It can also continue to help fund weak banks by letting
them use dodgy collateral in exchange for fresh lending.
Naturally, this scares orthodox central bankers, who view
printing money to buy government debt as the road to
hyperinflation. This fear is likely to be particularly acute
among German monetary officials: Juergen Stark cited his
opposition to the purchase program as the reason for his
resignation from the ECB board this month.  ‘Bridge Financing’  The path to full-scale ECB financing would probably begin
with a failed government-bond auction, maybe by Italy, which has
such high funding needs. In response, the politicians would
determine that their only immediate recourse is “bridge
financing” from the ECB. The central bank would be promised
that a new entity -- possibly a modified version of the existing
stability fund -- would be created to eventually take these
assets off its books. At the same time, the politicians in the
vulnerable countries would promise broad reforms to improve
growth and reduce spending.  But even under this scenario, uncertainty remains: What
will happen, say nine months later, when it’s time for the
debtor countries to implement the painful reforms and for the
creditor nations to hand over the money to relieve the ECB of
its assets?  It’s likely that governments won’t have prepared taxpayers
for these sacrifices and a revolt could ensue. In the debtor
countries, the politicians could simply fail to deliver
unpopular reforms, as we have seen in  Greece .  If this happens, the ECB would be required to become a
semi-permanent source of financing. It could very well refuse to
adopt that role. Another possibility is that Germany and some
other countries leave the euro.  If that decision is made, however, it will be in the midst
of an emergency, and not as part of a carefully studied,
democratically debated process.  (Anil K Kashyap, professor of economics and finance at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and director of
the Booth Initiative on Global Markets, is a contributor to
Business Class. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Anil K Kashyap at  anil.kashyap@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 