-- 
Ex-Moscow Mayor’s Billionaire Wife Denies Role in Fraud Case

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-29T10:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ex-moscow-mayor-s-billionaire-wife-denies-role-in-fraud-case.html
Yelena Baturina, the billionaire
wife of ousted Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, denied wrongdoing in a
$407 million fraud case that led to a police raid on her ZAO
Inteco property company in February.  The Interior Ministry’s investigative committee  said Feb.
17  that ZAO Premier Estate colluded with employees of Bank of
Moscow to fraudulently receive a loan of about 13 billion rubles
($407 million) that ended up in Baturina’s personal account. The
company had no intention of repaying the loan, while incorrect
information was given about the collateral against which it was
issued, the ministry said, without specifying the collateral.  Baturina, 48, who became Russia’s richest woman during her
husband’s 18-year stewardship of  Europe ’s largest city, said
late yesterday in an e-mailed statement that she sold a land
plot to Premier Estate for 12.6 billion rubles in May 2009,
leading to the transfer of the funds to her account. She denied
Russian media reports that she inflated the value of the land,
citing independent appraisals.  Russian state media accused Luzhkov, 74, of corruption and
favoritism toward his wife in the run-up to the ex-mayor’s
sacking last September by President  Dmitry Medvedev . Both deny
any wrongdoing. Russian regulators agreed to provide a record
395 billion-ruble bailout for Bank of Moscow in July after
state-run VTB Group bought the city government’s 46.5 percent
stake in the lender and discovered bad debts.  Luzhkov is living in the U.K.,  Russia ’s ambassador to the
U.K., Alexander Yakovenko, told the British Broadcasting Corp.
in an interview published on its website Sept. 9.  ‘No Grounds’  Russian investigators haven’t filed any charges against
Baturina or Inteco, according to yesterday’s statement. “There
are no grounds for any charges,” it cited the ex-mayor’s wife
as saying.  The money ended up in Baturina’s account legitimately
because the land belonged to her, Baturina’s press service said
yesterday.  Bank of Moscow’s press service declined to comment today on
whether Premier Estate is repaying the loan on schedule. Irina Dudukina, a spokeswoman for the Interior Ministry’s
investigative arm, didn’t answer her office or cell phones.  International Arrest Warrant  The former chief executive officer of Bank of Moscow,
Andrei Borodin is the subject of an international arrest warrant
by Russian authorities over his connection to the loan.
Investigators haven’t provided any proof of wrongdoing and the
loan is being repaid on schedule, Borodin’s Moscow-based
attorney Mikhail Dolomanov said in July.  The criminal proceedings against Borodin and VTB’s February
takeover of Bank of Moscow, Russia’s fifth-biggest lender, were
a “political” move to change the bank’s shareholders, Borodin
said Aug. 24 in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg.  Sberbank Investments, a unit of Russia’s state-run lender,
and B&N Bank’s Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Shishkhanov said
Sept. 6 they had agreed to buy Baturina’s Inteco. Lukhkov’s wife
decided to sell the company after getting a fair offer,
statements cited her as saying.  In the almost two decades her husband ran  City Hall ,
Baturina built up a fortune estimated by Forbes in June 2010 at
$2.9 billion. Her wealth fell to $1.2 billion, Forbes said in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  