-- 
Facebook, Twitter Usage Increases Companies’ Security Risks

-- B y   M a r c u s   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-29T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/facebook-twitter-usage-increases-companies-security-risks.html
Virus and malware attacks against
organizations have increased because of employees using
Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and other social media in the
workplace, according to a global study.  Of the 4,640 organizations surveyed by the  Ponemon
Institute , a research firm, more than half said these computer
attacks grew as a result of workers using social networks. About
a quarter of those respondents said the attacks rose by more
than 50 percent.  As social media services play a bigger role in businesses,
many organizations find themselves ill-equipped to handle the
accompanying security risks, according to the report.
Researchers surveyed information-technology employees at
organizations in the U.S.,  India ,  Brazil , Germany and elsewhere,
and found that only 35 percent had a policy on using social
media at work. Of those, 35 percent enforce it.  “A lot of organizations still didn’t have an acceptable
use policy,” said Larry Ponemon, chairman and founder of the
Traverse City, Michigan-based firm. For those with social-media
rules in place, “a policy that isn’t vigorously enforced isn’t
meaningful,” he said.  The virus and malware attacks use a simple approach to
attract victims, according to security company  Websense Inc. ,
which sponsored the survey.  Click Trick  “Most attacks are socially engineered driven,” said
Patrik Runald, a researcher at San Diego-based Websense. Users
may be enticed to click on a video, for example, “which takes
you to a page off of Facebook, where they trick you into
downloading something.”  Other findings from the report, titled “ Global Survey on
Social Media Risks ,” which was conducted in July:  -- In the U.S., respondents said workers spent an average
of 62 minutes each day using social media for personal reasons,
compared with 37 minutes for business purposes. In  Germany , it
was the opposite: Sixty-six minutes for work reasons and 19
minutes for nonbusiness purposes.  -- Almost 60 percent of the organizations increased their
Internet bandwidth to accommodate employees’ use of social media
in the past 12 months.  -- Social media is essential or very important to meeting
business objectives for 67 percent of respondents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Chan in  San Francisco  at 
 Mchan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  