-- 
Factors Show ‘Gradual’ Romanian Rate Cut, Central Bank Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-29T14:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/factors-point-to-romanian-rate-cut-in-future-central-bank-says.html
While a reduction in Romanian
 interest rates  was not possible today because of “persistent
uncertainties” in the European debt crisis, a cut in borrowing
costs in the future is possible, central bank adviser Lucian Croitoru said.  “Today was not the right moment for a monetary-policy
easing because of all the persistent uncertainties tied to the
European debt crisis,” Croitoru said in e-mailed comments to
Bloomberg. “Of course there are some factors that point to a
gradual interest-rate cut in the future.”  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the main rate for an
11th meeting at 6.25 percent, the European Union’s highest, in a
decision that was expected by all 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. It also left its minimum  reserve requirements  on
foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent.  “There are some factors that fuel disinflation, but there
are also uncertainties over capital flows, administered prices
and a slowdown in exports linked to foreign demand, which
justified today’s decision,” Croitoru said.  Central banks across the region are seeking to balance the
risks of slower growth in western  Europe , the main importer of
goods from its eastern neighbors, and weaker currencies as
investors cut exposure to emerging-market assets. Romanian
policy makers have kept interest rates stable since June 2010 as
they assess the impact of the global slowdown and fading effect
of a tax increase on prices.  ‘Persistent Uncertainties’  The economic prospects reveal a consolidation of
disinflation, “but also persistent uncertainties” related to
developments in the external environment, capital flows, as well
as administered and some volatile prices, the central bank
said in a separate  statement .  “Therefore, the central bank will gradually adjust the
monetary policy stance, in line with these developments and in
the context of fulfilling the Romanian authorities’ commitments
under the external financing arrangements with international
institutions,” it said.  “The current monetary policy remains adequate and it has
led to the resumption of the disinflation trend, and I think
that the central bank will continue to promote a policy that
will bring the inflation within its targeted band this year and
in the future,” he said in the e-mail.  Inflation Rate  Romania’s inflation rate fell to the lowest in 17 months in
August, dropping more than economists forecast, as a bumper
harvest boosted food stocks. It declined to 4.25 percent from
4.85 percent in July, the lowest since March 2010, the National
Statistics Institute said Sept. 12.  “The high volatility of food prices has lessened and it’s
been more than a year since the government raised the value-
added tax, so we can now safely say the two main factors that
prompted the central bank to pause its rate-cutting trend are
fading away rapidly,” Croitoru said.  “We recognize that a more benign inflation outlook in the
near-term and difficult growth prospects have raised the
probability of a rate cut this year,” analysts at Citibank
wrote in a commentary today. “Nonetheless, we still think the”
central bank will “keep rates on hold at 6.25%  during the
remainder of the year.”  Economic growth slowed to 1.4 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter compared with 1.7 percent in the first.
 Romania  is on track to meet a forecast of 1.5 percent growth for
this year, Prime Minister Emil Boc said on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  