-- 
Peltz’s Trian Pulls $7.7 Billion Offer to Buy Family Dollar, Adds Director

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-29T20:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/family-dollar-shareholder-trian-withdraws-offer-for-company.html
Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) 
shareholder  Nelson Peltz  withdrew his $7.7 billion offer to buy
the discount retailer and instead placed an ally on its board to
work on increasing the company’s value.  Edward P. Garden, chief investment officer of Peltz’s Trian
Fund Management LP, will join Family Dollar’s board, which has
been expanded to 11 directors, the Matthews, North Carolina-
based retailer said today in a statement.  Trian, which owns 8.3 percent of Family Dollar, said the
second-largest U.S. dollar store chain’s shares still are
undervalued and that Garden will work “constructively” with
the company’s management. Trian also agreed to limit its
ownership to 9.9 percent and vote for Family Dollar’s board
nominees, the fund said today in a filing.  “Trian is now more firmly wedded to the company,” John Heinbockel, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  New York ,
said today in a note to clients. He recommends buying Family
Dollar shares and he expects Trian’s “positive influence” on
the retailer to continue.  Trian offered on Feb. 15 to buy Family Dollar for $55 to
$60 a share, or as much as $7.7 billion including net debt. The
retailer rejected the offer less than a month later and adopted
a defense to discourage unsolicited offers. Trian urged Family
Dollar to reconsider, saying its plan to spur growth with new
stores and remodeling didn’t address sales and profit margins
that trailed larger rival  Dollar General Corp. (DG)   Adding Stores  Family Dollar said yesterday it plans to open as many as
500 stores next year to accelerate sales growth.  Joshua Braverman, a Family Dollar spokesman, didn’t reply
to telephone messages seeking comment. Trian won’t comment
beyond its filing, said  Carrie Bloom , a spokeswoman.  Family Dollar fell $2.32, or 4.4 percent, to $50.99 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 2.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  