-- 
FBI Said to Be Probing Solyndra for Possible Account Fraud

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T22:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fbi-said-to-be-probing-solyndra-for-possible-accounting-fraud.html
The FBI is investigating Solyndra
LLC for possible accounting fraud and the accuracy of financial
representations made to the government, according to an agency
official.  The FBI is examining possible misrepresentations in
financial statements, according to the FBI official, who
requested anonymity because the investigation is continuing.  Solyndra, which made cylindrical-shaped solar panels, filed
for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6 and fired about 1,100
workers with little notice, about two years after winning a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee from the Energy Department.  The company’s offices in Fremont, California, were raided
by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents on Sept. 8. The
 Justice Department  hasn’t said why Solyndra is being probed.  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions and “is cooperating
fully” with the U.S. Attorney in  San Francisco , according to a
Sept. 20 statement from Solyndra.  David Miller , a company
spokesman, didn’t immediately return a phone call and an e-mail
seeking comment today.  Solyndra’s collapse has prompted congressional scrutiny of
President Barack Obama’s administration, which issued final
approval of the loan that also won support from officials in the
administration of  George W. Bush .  White House Pressure  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
which has investigated the loan since February, have said the
administration pressured federal loan officers to expedite the
review of Solyndra’s application so it could be promoted as a
stimulus success story.  The company was the first to receive a guarantee under the
stimulus act and was the largest award given to a solar
manufacturer under the program.  Democrats, who dispute claims politics played a role,
joined Republicans in criticizing Solyndra Chief Executive
Officer Brian Harrison for what they said were
misrepresentations of the company’s finances in meetings with
lawmakers.  “When Mr. Harrison was in my office in July, he said that
Solyndra’s future was bright, with sales and production
booming,” Representative Henry Waxman of  California , top
Democrat on the Energy committee, said at a Sept. 23 hearing on
where Harrison was a witness. “I’d like to know why he told me
that in July, and then filed for bankruptcy one month later.”  Harrison, Stover  Harrison and Chief Financial Officer Bill Stover invoked
their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination and
refused to answer questions at the hearing.  Harrison joined Solyndra in July 2010, after Solyndra had
received its loan guarantee and its auditor had warned its
financial difficulties were deep enough to raise questions about
how long it could survive.  Companies seeking guarantees were required to estimate
project costs, list private investors and provide a model
detailing cash flows for the life of the project, according to
the 2006 Energy Department solicitation for loan guarantees.  Solyndra submitted an application in 2006 and added details
in October 2007 after the company was identified by the  Bush
administration  as a potential candidate for a guarantee.  It is unlawful for applicants for federal loan guarantees
to make untrue, misleading or incomplete statements, according
to James F. Bowe Jr., an energy regulatory lawyer with Dewey &
LeBoeuf in  Washington , who isn’t involved in the Solyndra case.  IPO Withdrawn  The company withdrew a planned initial public offering in
June 2010, citing adverse market conditions. A month earlier,
Obama toured the new manufacturing factory that U.S. aid helped
to build and said Solyndra was a testament to “American
ingenuity and dynamism.”  By December, the company was almost out of cash and sought
to restructure the loan agreement with the Energy Department.
The department at the time knew the company had failed to set
aside $5 million in the first of six payments into a  reserve
fund ,  Damien LaVera , an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
new deal eliminated the payments, he said.  The agreement made the government’s debt subordinate to $75
million in private investment in a last-ditch effort to save the
company, Energy Department officials have said.  Harrison replaced Solyndra founder Chris Gronet as chief
executive. Gronet remained chairman until Aug. 19, when the
company announced his departure, 12 days before it halted
operations on Aug. 31.  Gronet, a former executive at  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) ,
expressed anger when action on the loan guarantee was postponed
in January 2009, Energy Department e-mails show.  “I was appalled to learn on Friday that our application is
being delayed yet again,” Gronet wrote in an e-mail to Steve
Isakowitz, the Energy Department’s chief financial officer, in
the early morning hours on Jan. 12, 2009.  He later spurned an apology from David Frantz, director of
the loan program under Bush, according to an e-mail sent later
that day.  “I find the response completely unacceptable,” Gronet
wrote. “An apology from David is not enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  