-- 
Fed’s Rosengren Backs More Rules for Banks Based Outside U.S.

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-29T06:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fed-s-rosengren-backs-more-rules-for-banks-based-outside-u-s-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the challenges at some banks based
outside the U.S. highlight how regulators need to curtail the
vulnerability of global banking to more turmoil.  “It has become clear that financial stability is too
central to the performance of economies not to explore options
for moving forward and reducing instability,” Rosengren said
today in remarks prepared for a speech in  Stockholm . “The
global banking system currently remains more vulnerable than it
should and could be,” he said.  Rosengren singled out the need for foreign banks to become
less dependent on short-term funding, especially from money
market mutual funds. Three years after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., money-market borrowing rates for dollars
are rising, leading the Fed and  European Central Bank  to make
the currency available to  Europe ’s institutions for as long as
three months.  Money market mutual funds are contributing to dollar
shortages as they “shun some financial institutions with
various exposures to troubles in Europe -- a situation that is
having negative impact on short-term credit markets,” he said.
He didn’t comment on the outlook for the  U.S. economy  or
 interest rates .  U.S. prime money-market funds cut their exposure to euro-
zone bank deposits and commercial paper, or short-term IOUs, to
$214 billion in August from $391 billion at the end of last
year, according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Influence Stability  “I would suggest that the financial stability issues
raised in 2008, and which have become increasingly prevalent of
late, require a reexamination of issues that influence the
stability of short-term credit markets,” Rosengren said at the
Global Interdependence Center’s Conference on Capital Markets in
the Post Crisis Environment.  Rosengren said he would prefer requiring  money market funds 
to have “a meaningful capital-like buffer” that should exceed
“their single-issuer concentration exposure limits -- perhaps
on the order of 2 to 3 percent.”  “It is critical that one way or another we make the
industry less susceptible to credit shocks and liquidity runs,”
Rosengren said.  Additional steps are needed to make foreign banking
operations less dependent on short term funding, he said.  “While we should actively consider a variety of options,
my personal preference would be to move towards all foreign
banking operations requiring some form of bank capital,”
Rosengren said.  Rosengren, 54, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985 and became its president in 2007. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  