-- 
Festival Guru, Boulud Serve Up $225 Burgers, Tequila for Charity

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/festival-guru-boulud-serve-up-225-burgers-tequila-for-charity.html
When party organizer Lee Schrager
approached the Food Network about producing a food festival with
television chefs like  Mario Batali  and Alton Brown, channel
executives turned him down.  “They said they aren’t in the food-festival business, and
you should be paying us for using our talent,” Schrager said in
an interview.  A few years later, the network saw the promotional benefit
of food festivals for its whisk-wielding stars and joined the
foodie bashes organized by Schrager, who is a vice president at
the Southern Wine & Spirits of America distributorship in Miami.  After launching a festival there, he and the network
created a New York version in 2009. The nonprofit Food Network
 New York City Wine & Food Festival , which runs from today
through Sunday, is now one of the U.S.’s largest culinary fairs,
attracting more than 40,000 people to about 140 events.  Last year, about $1.2 million of the event’s net proceeds
went to Share Our Strength, a Washington-based charity that aims
to end childhood hunger, and to  Food Bank for New York City 
where Schrager is a board member.  Friday’s Blue Moon Burger Bash, hosted by actor  Whoopi
Goldberg , sold out within days. Schrager said he created it
after TV host Rachael Ray nudged him about starting an event for
burger lovers. The two then traveled the globe looking for the
best recipes. Friday’s burger fest at Brooklyn Bridge Park has
attracted a sell-out crowd of 2,000 people paying $225 each.  Ticket buyers paid $200 for “The Art of the Taco” hosted
by Bobby Flay and $400 to eat a meal  prepared by David Bouley  in
his TriBeCa test kitchen. Parents and kids will learn the fine
points of cake decorating for $40 from “Ace of Cakes” star
Duff Goldman.  Talking to Adria  One of the festival’s best bargains is a  free conversation 
with legendary chef Ferran Adria. On Saturday he’ll talk at the
Standard- New York  hotel about  his culinary pursuits  since
closing his famed El Bulli restaurant.  “Chefs as rock stars, that’s the thing for us,” Adria
said. “When I went to culinary school 30 years ago, I wanted to
be a chef. Now people go and want to be Bobby Flay.”  Schrager got the food bug while watching his mother cook as
a child growing up in Massapequa, New York. After finishing his
studies at the  Culinary Institute of America , he segued into the
nightclub business and in the 1980s ran Torpedo, a club in
Miami’s South Beach favored by models and fashion designers. In
the 1990s he became an event planner and philanthropist,
chairing and designing Make-A-Wish Foundation’s galas.  Eating in Aspen  The idea for a food festival came when a friend took him to
one in Aspen for his 40th birthday celebration 12 years ago.
Schrager launched the  South Beach  Wine & Food Festival more than
a decade ago to raise money for Florida International
University’s  Chaplin School  of Hospitality and Tourism
Management. Annual proceeds have grown to about $2.5 million
last year from $63,000, he said.  “Food festivals are on people’s calendars now, just like
people in classical music know about the opening night at the
 Metropolitan Opera ,” Schrager said.  (The Food Network  New York City  Wine & Food Festival starts
today and runs through Sunday. Information and tickets:
 http://www.nycwineandfoodfestival.com/2011/events.php )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 