-- 
Fifty-Year Drop in Asian Monsoons May Be Linked to Fossil Fuels

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-09-30T00:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fifty-year-drop-in-asian-monsoons-may-be-linked-to-fossil-fuels.html
The reduction in seasonal rainfall
in  South Asia  over the past 50 years may be a result of tiny
chemicals emitted into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels,
U.S. scientists said.  Computer models incorporating the effect of aerosols
emitted from car exhaust pipes, power plants and cooking stoves
may explain the 10 percent drop in monsoon rainfall in parts of
India over the last five decades, according to a study yesterday
in  Sciencexpress , the online version of the journal Science.  As much as 80 percent of South  Asia ’s rain falls during the
June-to-September monsoon. Seasonal winds fluctuate widely and
scientists have been developing new models that may help farmers
prepare for water-supply disruptions and mitigate loss of life
and property. Record monsoons last year caused floods in
 Pakistan  that displaced almost 20 million people and caused more
than $9 billion in damage.  “Our data shows that the 50-year trend of decreasing
monsoon rains is not a natural variation and is likely because
of the particles from burning fossil fuels,” study co-author  Yi
Ming , a scientist at the Washington-based National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, said in an interview. “By better
understanding the past, we can be more confident about
predicting future  climate change .”  The researchers ran data on pollutants compiled by the
 United Nations ’  International Panel on Climate Change  in
computer models to determine the effect on monsoon precipitation.
They then compared the results with 50 years of rain data from
 India  and Pakistan.  Microscopic particles like sulfates and carbon released
from coal-burning power plants and automobiles can reflect
sunlight back into space, producing a cooling effect. This can
in turn influence global wind circulation patterns that underlie
the monsoon system, Ming said.  Monsoons are large-scale winds in the Indian Ocean and
southern Asia that blow from the southwest in summer and from
the northeast in winter. During the four-month wet season, they
bring heavy rains accompanied by lightning and thunderstorms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  