-- 
Fitch Downgrades Seven Slovenian Banks on Poor Asset Quality

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-29T13:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fitch-downgrades-seven-slovenian-banks-on-poor-asset-quality-1-.html
Seven Slovenian lenders, including
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d., country’s two biggest, were downgraded by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited a worsening asset quality in the Alpine country.  Abanka Vipa d.d., Gorenjska Banka d.d., Banka Celje d.d.
and Probanka d.d. had their long-term credit and viability
ratings lowered, while Banka Koper’s viability rating was cut,
Fitch said today in a statement issued in  London .  “The downgrade of NLB’s issuer default rating also
considers delays and some uncertainty surrounding the bank’s
pending recapitalization and the government’s participation in
this,” Fitch said in the statement. The Sept. 20 collapse of
the government “could significantly delay NLB’s
recapitalization,” it said.  Slovenia’s banking industry is under strain after the
recession of 2009 depleted its capital. Banks set aside record
loan-loss reserves, which may rise more as the export-dependent
economy slows on weakening demand in  Europe . Nova Ljubljanska
needs to raise 400 million euros ($544 million) in fresh
capital, a second such move this year, to improve its  capital
ratios  after Slovenia’s biggest bank barely passed the European
Union’s stress test in July.  Moody’s Downgrade  The government of Prime Minister Borut Pahor fell after
disagreements with its coalition partners, increasing
uncertainty in the euro-region nation until Dec. 4, when the
early vote will take place.  Fitch yesterday became the second rating service to cut
Slovenia’s credit score by one level after Moody’s did so on
Sept. 23, citing weak economic outlook and the political
uncertainty.  “The situation is quite serious since a capital boost for
the banks would increase the government’s deficit even further,
which Slovenia simply can’t afford,” Radivoj Pregelj, an
analyst at Abanka Vipa d.d., said in an e-mail.  Slovenian banks may resort to financing by the  European
Central Bank , Nova Ljubljanska Chief Executive Officer Bozo
Jasovic said at a business forum in Portoroz, Slovenia.  “This, of course, is not a long-term solution,” Jasovic
said.  Nova Ljubljanska received 243 million euros in a capital
increase from the government in March. It now aims to raise 400
million euros by the end of the year.  -- Editors: James M. Gomez, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Langley at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net  