-- 
Ford to Add 7,000 U.S. Jobs in Next Two Years

-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-09-29T13:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ford-encouraged-by-u-s-recovery-mulally-says-correct-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  reiterated the automaker’s plan to add
7,000 jobs over the next two years in the U.S. as it expects the
world’s largest economy to avoid another recession.  Ford is discussing adding as many as 10,000 jobs in the
U.S. in negotiations with the United Auto Workers union on a new
four-year contract, according to three people familiar with the
talks. Mulally, who was in  Thailand  today, declined to comment
on the progress of discussions with the UAW.  Ford announced Jan. 10 plans to hire 4,000 factory workers
and 750 engineers this year and 2,500 hourly workers next year.
Some of the hiring was to support Ford’s development of battery-
powered cars, the company said at the time. The automaker is now
looking for new ways to expand employment, Mulally said.  “We are actually going to add nearly 7,000 new jobs in the
U.S. over the next two years,” Mulally, 66, said in a group
interview. “And you can imagine that with that backdrop that
the attitude of everybody is how do we continue to make
progress, because what we all care about is growing the business
and providing great jobs and great careers.”  Still Seeing Expansion  The second-largest U.S. automaker’s plan to recruit more
workers comes as President  Barack Obama  seeks to rally support
for his $447 billion proposal to boost hiring. With unemployment
stuck at 9.1 percent last month and the economy growing at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter, jobs will be a
central issue as Obama campaigns for re-election in 2012.  “We’re still seeing economic expansion,” Mulally said.
“It is relatively less than we’ve had following previous
recessions. But clearly the recession we went through is the
worst that we’ve had since the Depression, so we’re very
encouraged by the recovery.”  Mulally was in Thailand to attend the production debut of
Ford’s Ranger pickup at a local plant.  Ford shares fell 1.9 percent to $9.93 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares have fallen 41
percent this year.  While growth in  Europe  has slowed due to the region’s debt
crisis, expansion in the Asia-Pacific region remains
“substantial,” Mulally said. Increasing Ford’s business in
 Asia  is part of the CEO’s wider plan to boost annual global
sales 50 percent to 8 million vehicles by 2015.  Market Share  Ford’s U.S. market share rose to 16.8 percent this year
through August from 16.7 percent last year, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Under Mulally, the Dearborn, Michigan-
based carmaker has been diversifying its model lineup, including
adding the Fiesta subcompact.  “The U.S. industry has been through its worst, and Ford is
optimistic about the auto market’s recovery,” said  Ashvin
Chotai , London-based managing director for Intelligence
Automotive Asia. “Ford’s financial situation is very good, with
the restructuring and partial recovery. The hiring plan seems
flexible and realistic, too.”  Mulally, who has headed Ford since September 2006, led the
company to earn $9.28 billion in the past two years after $30.1
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The automaker borrowed
$23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all major assets
including its blue oval logo as collateral. That helped Ford
avoid bankruptcy and boost U.S. market share the last two years.  UAW Talks  The discussion about creating 10,000 jobs is part of high-
level negotiations between Ford and UAW President  Bob King  over
wages, benefits and employment gains in the new contract and is
still subject to change, said the people, who asked not to be
identified revealing internal deliberations.  “Job reduction in 2009 was severe, so Ford must be
restoring the headcount from then,” Chotai said.  Ford,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are among
automakers using Thailand as a global production hub due to tax
incentives and trade arrangements that grant access to  Southeast
Asia ’s 592 million consumers.  Ford has invested $1.3 billion in Thailand in the past
three years. The carmaker signed a 15.5 billion-baht ($497
million) loan agreement in July with three Thai banks to fund a
new passenger car manufacturing plant in the eastern province of
Rayong.  Ford said earlier this month it would add eight models in
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  over the next five
years as vehicle sales increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Sean Collins at 
 scollins14@bloomberg.net  