-- 
Forint Weakens for Second Day as Hungary Clashes With EU on Tax

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-29T13:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/forint-weakens-for-second-day-as-hungary-clashes-with-eu-on-tax.html
The forint weakened for a second
day as  Hungary ’s refusal to end a telecommunications tax
deepened concern the government will struggle to reduce its
 budget deficit .  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 291.72 per
euro as of 3:14 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has retreated 8.8
percent this quarter, heading for its worst performance since
the three-month period ended in March 2009.  The European Commission called on Hungary today to abolish
a tax on telecommunication operators, saying the revenue is used
for the government’s central budget and not for meeting the
specific costs of regulating the industry. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government sees “no reason” to end the special levy
designed to narrow the budget shortfall,  Peter Szijjarto , the
prime minister’s spokesman, said in a statement today.  The dispute over the tax signals Hungary’s policies are
“not sustainable,” Daniel Lenz, chief emerging markets
strategist at  DZ Bank  AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “Moreover, today’s
decision from Brussels has proven that some political decisions
are perhaps doubtful from a legal perspective too.”  Orban imposed special taxes on energy, financial, retail
and telecommunications companies last year, as part of measures
to cut the deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product next
year following a shortfall of 4.3 percent in 2010. He plans to
lower Hungary’s debt to 72 percent of gross domestic product
next year from 80 percent at the end of 2010, which was the
highest among the European Union’s eastern members.  ‘Dangerous Precedent’  A separate law allowing the early repayment of foreign-
currency home loans at below-market rates with banks absorbing
the costs, which enters into force this week, sets a “dangerous
precedent,” may reduce the willingness of parent companies to
fund their Hungarian units, hurting credit and economic growth,
 Fitch Ratings  said in a statement yesterday, echoing similar
comments from Moody’s Investors Service a day earlier.  The mortgage repayment “plan is a disaster and the timing
to introduce it could not have been worse,” DZ Bank’s Lenz
said. “As foreign banks are strongly affected as well I expect
this to become an issue that will be discussed on a European
political level.”  Hungary today cut its offer of 12-month Treasury bills by
34 percent at an auction after getting the lowest amount of bids
on that maturity in more than six years. The government raised
26.4 billion forint ($124 million) of bills, 13.6 billion forint
less than planned. Investors bid for 30.2 billion forint, the
least since Feb. 10, 2005, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  