-- 
Fortescue Wins Court Hearing in Bid to Fight Director Ban

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T06:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fortescue-says-court-grants-special-leave-to-appeal-in-asic-case.html
Andrew Forrest , founder of
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., won a hearing before  Australia ’s
highest court in his bid to fight a regulator-sought ban on
holding director posts at publicly traded companies.  The  High Court  of Australia today granted Forrest’s request
for the hearing, Fortescue said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange. A date for the hearing of the appeal hasn’t been
set yet.  The Australian Securities and Investment Commission alleged
that Forrest and Fortescue, the country’s third-biggest exporter
of iron ore, misled and deceived investors with a description of
contracts with three Chinese companies. Forrest had breached his
duties as a director, according to the regulator.  The commission will defend the appeal, Acting Chairman
Belinda Gibson said in a notice on its  website .  “This case raises important issues which form the bedrock
of confidence in the integrity of our markets, including
misleading and deceptive conduct, continuous disclosure and
directors’ duties,” Gibson said.  Federal Court Justice John Gilmour cleared Forrest and
Fortescue on Dec. 23, 2009, after a trial in Perth, saying their
opinions were honestly and reasonably held. An appeal panel
 overturned  the decision on Feb. 18 this year, ruling the
conclusion was erroneous and referred the case back to the trial
judge for determination of a penalty.  Binding Contracts  In 2004, Fortescue said in letters to the stock exchange
and media releases that the Perth-based company had binding
agreements with China Metallurgical Construction Group Corp.,
China Harbour Engineering Co. and China Railway Engineering Corp.
to build an  iron ore  mine, a port at Port Hedland in  Western
Australia  and a railway, according to court records.  Fortescue shares rose in Sydney trading following the
announcements to 50.5 Australian cents on March 23, 2005, from
5.9 cents on Aug. 23, 2004, the records show.  The stock slumped after the Australian Financial Review
reported in March 2005 that the agreements didn’t impose any
legally binding obligations on the Chinese contractors,
according to the appeals court judgment. Fortescue fell 25
percent to 37.7 cents on March 24, 2005.  The shares dropped 1.6 percent to A$4.45 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, compared with the 0.8 percent decline
in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The appeal case is:  Australian Securities and Investments
Commission  v.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  WAD23/2010. Federal
Court of Australia - Full Court (Perth)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 