-- 
Freeport McMoRan’s Peru Copper Miners Strike Again Over Wage Increase

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-09-29T07:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/freeport-mcmoran-s-peru-copper-miners-strike-again-over-wage-increase.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ’s copper miners in Peru will go on strike today after wage
talks collapsed, their third stoppage this month, while workers
in  Indonesia  will resume negotiations, union officials said.  About 1,200 workers at Freeport’s  Sociedad Minera Cerro
Verde SAA (CVERDEC1)  unit, Peru’s third-largest copper producer, are
scheduled to walk off their jobs at 8:30 a.m. New York time,
union General Secretary Leoncio Amudio said. The Labor Ministry
ruled the  strike action  was legal, which bars the company from
hiring outside contractors, he said.  “Talks have made little progress as the company isn’t even
meeting half our demands,” Amudio said yesterday by telephone
from Arequipa, 750 kilometers (466 miles) southeast of Lima.
“This strike will probably last longer than last time unless we
reach an agreement.”  Workers in  Peru ,  Chile ,  Bolivia  and Indonesia have gone on
strike at copper, gold and zinc mines this year, seeking better
working conditions and a greater percentage of record profits.
Cerro Verde was shut for five days this month, while Freeport’s
Grasberg mine in Indonesia began a month-long strike on Sept. 15,
raising concerns the stoppages may widen a global metal deficit
and boost prices.  The Grasberg union and PT Freeport Indonesia will resume
talks tomorrow to help end the strike after negotiations on wage
increases last week failed, according to Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at the labor union.  Freeport plunged 7.2 percent to $32.30 in New York trading
yesterday. Cerro Verde dropped 4.5 percent to $34.20 in  Lima .  Force Majeure  Workers in Peru are demanding a 9 percent annual wage rise,
while Cerro Verde is offering a one-time bonus of 1,200 soles
($433), Amudio said.  Cerro Verde, which is studying a $3.5 billion expansion to
increase annual copper output by 45 percent, produced 312,336
metric tons last year. Copper and molybdenum concentrates
weren’t “materially affected” by this month’s strikes,
Freeport spokesman  Eric Kinneberg  said on Sept. 18.  Kinneberg didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call
and an e-mail seeking comment.  “A mine the size of Cerro Verde will usually have several
days of output stockpiled for shipment,” Carlos Diez Canseco, a
mining consultant and former head of the National Mining Society
industry group, said in an interview. “But they may have to
declare force majeure if the strike goes on for more than a
week.”  Force majeure is a legal clause that allows companies to
miss contracted shipments because of circumstances beyond their
control.  Grasberg Negotiations  “We will discuss the 2011-2013 working contract as well as
the latest condition at Grasberg and the strike at tomorrow’s
meeting,” Solossa said by phone from Timika, the town closest
to Grasberg.  More than 1,000 of the 8,000 strikers rallied for two hours
today in Timika, protesting against Freeport’s policy that
replaced the employees with contractors and sanctions against
several union members, Solossa said.  According to Article 144 and 145 of the 2003 Indonesian
Labor Law, in an event of a strike, laborers on stoppage are
entitled to wages and the company isn’t allowed to replace them
with outsourced workers and to sanction the strikers. Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman at Freeport, didn’t respond to
a call and text-message to his mobile phone seeking comment.  “We heard that mining continues, but it’s very limited
because the management is hiring inexperienced workers,”
Solossa said. “We demand our pay and urge Freeport to stop
using contractors to do our jobs. That’s against the law.”  Copper Prices  Copper for December delivery fell 19.3 cents, or 5.6
percent, to $3.2465 a pound on the Comex in  New York , the lowest
settlement since August 2010. On the London Metal Exchange,
copper dropped $343, or 4.5 percent, to $7,251 a metric ton
($3.29 a pound).  The management of Freeport’s Indonesian unit, which has the
world’s largest recoverable reserves of copper, is negotiating a
two-year extension of a labor contract that’s set to expire on
Sept. 30.  The company said on Sept. 27 it may adjust its wage offer
to help end the strike, which is causing a loss of 3 million
pounds (1,361 metric tons) of copper a day. Grasberg produced
553,000 tons in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  