-- 
French Socialist Party Candidates Target Banks, Financial System

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-29T07:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/french-socialist-party-candidates-target-banks-financial-system.html
The six candidates for the French
 Socialist Party ’s presidential nomination pledged to rein in the
financial system and impose greater supervision on banks.  In the second of three televised debates last night, the
candidates were unanimous on the need to curb the financial
industry.  Segolene Royal, the May 2007 election candidate defeated by
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , and Arnaud Montebourg, another
Socialist contender, pledged they would “put banks under the
guardianship” of the state, if elected.  Martine Aubry , the
former party chief, said she would “tax the financial system”
and  Francois Hollande , the party’s leading candidate, said he
would  revise stock options  rules. They didn’t elaborate on their
plans in the two-and-half hour debate.  Separately, candidate Manuel Valls said he would raise the
value-added tax by one percentage point, ”except for essential
goods.” Aubry and Royal promised legally binding rules to force
 gender equality  in the government and in business.  An Ipsos opinion  poll released yesteday showed Hollande
would garner 44 percent of the votes at the Oct. 9 party
primaries, topping his nearest rival Aubry by 17 percentage
points. Royal would get 13 percent of the votes, Montebourg 10
percent, Valls 5 percent and Jean-Michel Baylet 1 percent, the
poll showed.  Ipsos surveyed 574 voters who plan to cast their vote in
the ballot between Sept. 21 and 26. It didn’t provide a margin
of error.  The Socialist Party is holding two rounds of voting in the
primaries, on Oct. 9 and Oct. 16. The winner will be the party’s
candidate in the May 2012 presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  