-- 
FSA’s Turner Says ‘Sympathetic’ to Studying Transactions Tax

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-29T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/fsa-s-turner-says-sympathetic-to-studying-transactions-tax.html
A top U.K. banking regulator backed
public discussion about the merits of enacting financial
transactions taxes, a day after the British Treasury opposed a
European Union proposal for such a levy.  Adair Turner , chairman of the Financial Services Authority
and a member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee, told an academic conference in the southern U.K. city
of Winchester yesterday that he is “certainly sympathetic” to
transaction taxes being explored.  The EU this week suggested such a tax take effect in 2014,
annually raising about 57 billion euros ($77 billion). The
proposal would apply a tax of 0.1 percent on trading of stocks
and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives contracts,
according to the European Commission, the EU executive.  European governments are split over the tax’s merits and
British banks warn that an EU-only measure would drive business
to other regions. The U.K., home to  Europe ’s biggest financial
center, has opposed the move, which requires the unanimous
support of all EU countries. The U.K. Treasury reiterated this
week that such a levy would need to apply globally.  Turner, who said he was discussing a personal position,
first raised the idea of a so-called  Tobin tax  in August 2009,
when he told Prospect magazine it would help redistribute bank
profits to the poor and “public goods” like fighting  climate
change .  Not ‘Forbidden’  “I thought financial transaction taxes should be taken out
of the index of forbidden thought,” Turner said yesterday. He
nevertheless added that it was hard to make the case that a
transaction tax would have prevented the recent financial
crisis.  “I think there are pros and cons,” he said.  Turner also said regulators may need to use unconventional
policy tools to ensure banks don’t cause another credit boom and
financial turmoil.  Supervisors “may need to be still more radical” in
regulating banks’ trading of complex financial products, he
said. He called for minimum ratios for measuring risk, known as
risk weights, to be applied globally as part of the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision ’s rules on bank reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Winchester at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  