-- 
Furukawa Electric Will Pay $200 Million Fine in U.S. Probe of Price-Fixing

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-09-29T16:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/furukawa-electric-will-pay-200-million-fine-in-u-s-probe-of-price-fixing.html
Furukawa Electric Co. agreed to
plead guilty and pay a $200 million fine for a price-fixing and
bid-rigging conspiracy involving the sale of parts to carmakers.  Three executives, Junichi Funo, Hirotsugu Nagata and
Tetsuya Ukai, also agreed to plead guilty and to serve prison
time in the U.S. ranging from a year and a day to 18 months, the
 Justice Department  said in a statement today.  The charges are the first stemming from a continuing U.S.
antitrust probe of the auto-parts industry, according to the
Justice Department. Tokyo-based Furukawa and the three
executives agreed to help the department in the investigation,
the statement said.  “As a result of this international price-fixing and bid-
rigging conspiracy, automobile manufacturers paid noncompetitive
and higher prices for parts in cars sold to U.S. consumers,”
said Sharis Pozen, acting assistant attorney general in charge
of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, in the
statement.  David Noble , administration manager for Plymouth, Michigan-
based American Furukawa Inc., the company’s U.S. unit, declined
to comment and said the company would issue a statement
tomorrow.  Before the Justice Department’s announcement, Furukawa rose
2.7 percent, to close at 225 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japanese Citizens  The company was part of the conspiracy from January 2000
through at least January of last year, according to the
department.  The three executives, who are Japanese citizens,
participated in the scheme from April 2003 through July 2009,
the department said. For a portion of that time, Funo and Nagata
engaged in price fixing in the Detroit area, the department
said.  Funo was Furukawa’s assistant general manager for Honda
sales in the U.S., later becoming manager of the company’s Honda
sales division in  Japan . Nagata was a general manager of sales
in the U.S., rising to chief financial officer.  Ukai worked in Japan in Furukawa’s Honda sales division,
eventually becoming general manager, according to the
department.  The company conspired to rig bids and fix prices for wire
harnesses and related products, the department said. The
harnesses are systems that control a car’s electrical components
and circuit boards.  The plea agreements require approval by a judge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  