-- 
Gasoline Cargoes to U.S. Set to Gain as Refinery Maintenance Crimps Supply

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-29T16:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/gasoline-cargoes-to-u-s-set-to-gain-as-refinery-maintenance-crimps-supply.html
Gasoline shipments across the
Atlantic Ocean will be at the highest level since June over the
next two weeks on declining production from U.S. refineries and
excess inventories in  Europe , a survey showed.  Thirty-one tankers were booked or are due to be chartered
for loading in the period, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of four shipbrokers, one owner and two
traders yesterday. That’s the highest number since at least June
and one more cargo than last week, previous survey data show.  U.S. refineries step up maintenance in the final weeks of
September and the first weeks of October to get ready for more
production of winter fuel. ConocoPhillips is idling operations
at its 185,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Trainer,  Pennsylvania ,
and will close the plant permanently if a buyer isn’t found. The
East Coast had 1.62 million barrels a day of operable capacity
as of June, according to the Energy Department. Gasoline rose as
much as 1.2 percent today to $2.6835 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The “U.S. refinery maintenance period is late September
early October as they switch from summer gasoline production to
heating oil in the winter, so this reduction in output could
certainly result in more gasoline cargoes sourced from Europe,”
Jonathan B. Chappell, managing director, research, at New York-
based Evercore Partners Inc., said today by phone.  An excess of gasoline stocks in northwestern Europe can
also spur more shipments of the auto fuel to the U.S., according
to  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets strategy at
BNP Paribas.  Supply Push  “If Europe develops an additional surplus of supply, you
could also have a supply push,” London-based Tchilinguirian
said today by phone. U.S. gasoline inventories gained 791,000
barrels to 214.9 million in the week ended Sept. 23, the
 Department of Energy  said.  Of the 31 vessels, known in the industry as medium-range
tankers, 16 have already been booked and 15 will probably be
hired, according to the survey. They will be able to carry about
9.8 million barrels of gasoline, or 700,000 barrels a day over
the next two weeks. The daily rate is 83 percent of the 839,000
barrels the U.S. imported over the past year, the department
said.  The October forward contract for the Northwest Europe to
U.S. East Coast freight route advanced 23 percent yesterday to
$9,634.25, according to data from Marex Spectron. That’s the
highest since June 24, the data show.  Participate in Rally  “The list of available ships looks very tight up to Oct.
5, and we still have quite a few cargoes to cover,” Will Leslie, head of tanker derivatives at broker ACM-GFI in  London ,
said by e-mail yesterday. “On the back of this, we’ve seen a
huge amount of interest, as people have scrambled to adjust
positions and participate in the rally: it’s been very busy and
volumes have been high.”  As a result, there are 23 vessels likely to be available to
carry trans-Atlantic gasoline cargoes, five less than the same
period a month earlier, the survey showed.  Daily rental income for tankers carrying gasoline across
the Atlantic decreased 7.4 percent today to $12,423, according
to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. That’s about a six-fold
increase from the 2011 low reached Sept. 8.  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwestern
Europe. Each tanker would normally haul about 37,000 tons of
cargo, or 315,000 barrels.  Charter rates on the route declined 2.9 percent to 180.21
industry-standard Worldscale points today, according to the
exchange.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  