-- 
GE-Philips Health Equipment Market Opens as Smartphones Win FDA Nod: Tech

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-29T22:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ge-philips-health-equipment-market-opens-as-smartphones-win-fda-nod-tech.html
When Brian Froelke joined emergency
responders in tornado-ravaged Joplin,  Missouri , in May, the
physician brought along a  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  smartphone with a
hairbrush-size gadget attached.  The device, made by Redmond, Washington-based startup
Mobisante Inc., converts a phone into a pocket ultrasound
machine. Froelke used it to examine a pregnant woman who came to
a temporary hospital complaining of stomach pain.  “It was helpful to reassure the mom that the baby didn’t
have any obvious problems,” Froelke says.  Mobisante’s device, which goes on sale in October, is part
of a wave of new smartphone applications and attachments in the
nascent mobile health market, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Oct. 3 issue. In the past eight months, products that turn a
phone into a blood-pressure monitoring cuff, a CT-scan viewer
and other health-care gadgets have received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration clearance.  The market is predicted to grow: By 2015, 30 percent of the
world’s smartphone users will be using mobile health products,
up from 5 percent now, estimates Research2guidance, a mobile-
market consulting firm in Berlin.  “Health care will be fundamentally different than it used
to be,” says Bakul Patel, a policy adviser at the FDA.  And potentially less expensive. One of the promises of
mobile health products is that, by building on existing products
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, they can perform the same function
as high-end hospital gear for a fraction of the price.  ‘Bang for Buck’  Mobisante’s ultrasound attachment, for example, costs
$7,495. Though the images aren’t the highest quality available,
a top-of-the-line ultrasound machine costs as much as $100,000,
and Mobisante’s device is “easily the best bang for your
buck,” says Jason C. Wagner, an emergency department doctor in
 St. Louis , who reviewed it for Emergency Physicians Monthly.  By reducing costs for insurers and medical providers,
mobile health-focused startups hope to snag a slice of the
$273 billion medical equipment and supplies market, currently
dominated by large companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Royal Philips Electronics NV.  “Big companies of tomorrow are the small companies of
today,” says Cedric Hutchings, chief executive officer of
Withings, a company in the Paris suburb of Issy-les-Moulineaux
that makes a $129 blood-pressure monitoring cuff that attaches
to iPhones.  Although smartphones have been on the market for years, the
long process for obtaining FDA clearance means health-related
apps and attachments are only now starting to appear in
significant numbers.  ‘New for Them’  MIM Software Inc. sells an iPhone and iPad app for
physicians to view CT, MRI and PET images on their mobile
devices. Mark Cain, the Cleveland-based company’s chief
technology officer, says MIM built a prototype of the app in a
week, then spent 2 1/2 years and more than $150,000 getting FDA
clearance, which came through in February.  “It was new for them, it was new for us,” Cain says.  The cost and approval time may shrink in 2012, when the FDA
is expected to issue  detailed guidelines  about which mobile
health devices and apps fall under its jurisdiction, and how it
will regulate them. That will help potential customers like
hospitals and medical practices decide which devices to buy and
“will probably help accelerate this area,” says the FDA’s
Patel.  The pioneers have already done some of the legwork:
Mobisante, for instance, had to prove to the FDA that
smartphones’ digital screens were comparable to the screens on
existing ultrasound machines, work that future applicants may
not have to replicate.  Retail Opportunity  Mobile health products could get another boost next year,
when AT&T Inc. plans to start carrying some in their retail
stores, according to Glenn Lurie, president of emerging devices
at the company.  Mobisante says it’s in talks with several potential big
purchasers, including the U.S. Army, which is interested in
using the portable ultrasound device to diagnose wounded
soldiers in the field. In June, Health Care Service Corp., a
Chicago-based insurer with 13 million customers, began testing a
wireless service from Baltimore-based startup WellDoc Inc. that
helps Type 2 diabetics manage their disease.  Investors and potential acquirers already are eyeing the
market. In September, Sandy Spring, Maryland-based venture
capital firm Hickory Ridge Group started a $50 million fund
focused on new health technologies, including mobile products.  “We are looking very closely at some of these startups,”
says Paul Coss, a director for wireless technologies at Philips
Healthcare. “There’s some clever innovation happening there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  