-- 
Gecamines of Congo Must Publish Asset-Sale Revenue, IMF Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-09-29T17:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/gecamines-of-congo-must-publish-asset-sale-revenue-imf-says-2-.html
Gecamines, the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo’s state-owned copper-mining company, must publish
contracts and revenue from recent asset sales under the terms of
a government economic program backed by the  International
Monetary Fund , the multilateral lender said.  Gecamines sold its stakes in two mining projects run by
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore International Plc to companies
associated with Israeli businessman Dan Gertler earlier this
year. Gecamines didn’t announce the deals publicly at the time
and has declined to publish full details of the sales or
transfer the proceeds to Congo’s Treasury.  “The obligation to report such information covers all
state-owned enterprises, unless such enterprises are explicitly
excluded from the program,” IMF Country Director in Congo Samir Jahjah said in an e-mailed response to questions today from
Kinshasa, the Congolese capital. “At this time, there are no
such exceptions under the DRC’s program.”  Congo holds 4 percent of global copper reserves and is
among the world’s largest producers of cobalt. The Central
African nation, recovering from more than four decades of
dictatorship and war, is in the second year of a three-year,
$561 million loan program backed by the IMF to reduce poverty
and spur economic growth.  “An important objective” of the program is to generate
more revenue to address Congo’s health, education and
infrastructure needs, Jahjah said. An “important source” of
this revenue is natural resources, he said.  ‘Best Practices’  “To generate this revenue, the natural-resource sector
must be managed more effectively, in line with international
best practices,” Jahjah said. “These practices include strong
governance and transparency.”  The IMF asked the government for information on recent
asset sales by state-owned companies in its periodic review of
Congo’s adherence to its loan program, Jahjah said, without
identifying the specific deals. On Sept. 16, both Gecamines and
state-owned miner Sodimico sent letters in response to IMF
inquiries about recent asset sales by the two companies. The
letters were published on the website of Congo’s Mines Ministry.  The controversy over the sales by Gecamines and Sodimico
delayed the IMF’s release of the next instalment of its loan to
Congo,  le Potentiel , a Kinshasa-based newspaper, reported today,
citing people it didn’t identify.  No Delay  Jahjah denied there had been a delay in a mobile-phone
message today. “The review is proceeding on the timetable
envisaged,” he said.  In its response to the IMF questions, Gecamines said it
disagreed with an IMF suggestion that the proceeds from a $137
million sale of its share in the Mutanda copper and cobalt
project should be transferred to state coffers, in accordance
with Congolese law. After the copper and cobalt miner became a
commercial company in December, such laws didn’t apply, it said.  “According to the 2008 law on public enterprise
restructuring, proceeds from asset sales should go to the
Treasury,” Jahjah said.  Albert Yuma, head of Gecamines’ board, had his mobile phone
turned off when called for comment today and didn’t respond to a
text-message request for comment. Finance Minister Matata Ponyo
was out of the country and could not be reached for comment,
according to a person who answered the phone at his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 