-- 
Greek, Irish Bonds Advance After German Lawmakers Approve Fund Expansion

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-29T16:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/german-bonds-rise-before-european-confidence-data-euro-aid-vote.html
Greek government bonds rose for a
third day, leading gains by securities of  Europe ’s most indebted
countries, as German lawmakers backed an expansion of the euro-
area rescue fund.  Irish and Belgian debt also advanced as  Germany ’s lower
house of parliament passed the measure granting the fund powers
to buy bonds in secondary markets, enable bank recapitalizations
and offer precautionary credit lines. German 10-year bunds
snapped a four-day drop after a report showed confidence in
Europe’s economic outlook fell more than analysts forecast.  “Investors are now looking at putting risk on rather than
taking it off,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income
research at HSBC Holdings Plc, speaking in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua .
“People are looking at the short end once again.”  Greece ’s two-year yield fell 453 basis points to 65.24
percent at 5 p.m. in London, down from a euro-era record 84.52
percent on Sept. 14. The 4 percent note due August 2013 gained
2.115, or 21.15 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,364) face amount, to
42.605. Ten-year rates slid 37 basis points to 22.68 percent.  Irish two-year yields declined 54 basis points to 7.04
percent, and Belgium’s two-year rates fell for a seventh day,
dropping 11 basis points to 1.85 percent.  “We’ve seen some buying of Belgium right across the
curve,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed debt-market
strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “There is a fantastic
spread obtainable on the front end of  Belgium  versus Germany. We
think it’s a pretty safe bet.”  German Lawmakers  Lawmakers in the Bundestag voted 523 in favor of the
legislation, while 85 voted against and three abstained. It is
now set to be debated and put to a non-binding vote in the upper
house tomorrow. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , head of
Europe’s largest economy and the biggest country contributor to
bailouts for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , spent weeks
convincing dissenters in her coalition to back the July 21
accord by euro-area leaders to expand the fund.  German 10-year bunds halted a four-day loss after the
European Commission said its index of executive and consumer
sentiment in the region dropped to 95 this month from a revised
98.4 in August. That’s the lowest since December 2009.  The 10-year bund yield was little changed at 2.01 percent,
after rising to 2.02 percent yesterday, the most since Sept. 2.  Market Uncertainty  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in the market,
especially on the political side,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  Bunds erased earlier gains after U.S. government reports
showed jobless claims fell more than analysts forecast and
gross-domestic product grew more than earlier estimated, easing
concern the world’s largest economy is slowing.  German bonds have rallied this month as reports signaled
the region’s economy may be slipping back into a recession.
Bunds have gained 1.6 percent in September, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg.  Global investors anticipate that Europe’s debt crisis will
lead to an economic slump and social unrest in the next year
with 72 percent predicting a country abandoning the euro within
five years, according to a Bloomberg survey. About three-
quarters of those questioned said the euro-area economy will
fall into recession in the next 12 months, according to the
quarterly Global Poll.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds rose after the country sold 7.9 billion euros
of securities, less than the maximum target.  The Treasury auctioned 3.14 billion euros of notes due in
2014 to yield 4.68 percent, compared with 3.8 percent at the
previous sale on Aug. 30. Demand climbed to 1.36 times the
amount sold from a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.32 in August. Italy
also auctioned securities due in 2015, 2021 and 2022.  The 10-year bond yield fell seven basis points to 5.58
percent, while the two-year rate dropped nine basis points to
4.28 percent.  Sweden ’s bonds advanced after the debt office said it would
be able to sustain a larger-than-needed  bond market  to keep up
liquidity for the nation’s debt as its borrowing levels shrink.
The 10-year yield fell eight basis points to 1.84 percent.  Volatility on Sweden’s sovereign debt was the highest
among developed-country markets today, according to measures of
10-year bonds, two-10-year spreads and credit-default swaps. The
yield change in the nation’s 10-year bonds was 1.8 times the 90-
day average, the Bloomberg gauge showed. Sweden isn’t part of
the  euro area .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  