-- 
German Unemployment Declines for 27th Straight Month as Hiring Holds Up

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-29T08:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/german-unemployment-falls-by-more-than-forecast-26-000-as-hiring-holds-up.html
German unemployment declined more
than economists forecast in September, suggesting the labor
market in  Europe ’s largest economy is weathering the region’s
worsening debt crisis.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
26,000 to 2.92 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. That’s the biggest drop since April. Economists had
forecast a decline of 8,000, the median of 24 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. The adjusted jobless rate slipped
to 6.9 percent from 7 percent in the previous month.  Germany’s unemployment has reached the lowest level since
the country’s reunification two decades ago after increasing
global export demand prompted companies to step up spending and
hiring. That growth momentum has been sapped by a possible
recession in the U.S. and the threat of a renewed financial
crisis that could be triggered by a sovereign default in  Greece .  “We hear a lot of talk of recession and weakness, but the
labor market doesn’t reflect that right away,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “Given the
uncertainty, companies might become more cautious regarding
investing and hiring. I don’t expect unemployment to rise over
the coming months, but show more of a stagnation.”  The euro rose after the release, trading at $1.3653 at
10:45 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.8 percent on the day.  ‘Full Tilt’  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  Chief Financial Officer
Friedrich Eichiner told reporters on Sept. 8 that the Munich-
based carmaker’s plants are “working at full tilt.” German
rival Audi AG is hiring staff to boost output and sports-car
maker Porsche AG is seeking to fill about 130 engineering
positions at its Leipzig factory.  German spending and output have helped power the region’s
expansion. Export growth accelerated in the second quarter,
helping counter a drop in consumer demand and construction
output. Imports increased 3.2 percent in that period, up from
1.7 percent in the previous three months.  In September, business confidence fell less than economists
forecast. The Ifo institute in Munich said on Sept. 26 its
sentiment index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped
to 107.5 from 108.7 in August. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
had projected a drop to 106.5.  Investor Concern  Germany ’s harmonized jobless rate was 6.1 percent in July,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compared with 9.1 percent in the U.S., 9.9
percent in  France  and an OECD European average of 9.4 percent.  “We’re seeing the growth dynamic running out of steam a
bit, but I don’t think there will be a fundamental change in the
labor market,” said  Alexander Krueger , head of capital market
analysis at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf, Germany.
“Employment will hold up at a high level.”  Investor concern that European leaders are not taking
sufficient action to stem the region’s spiraling debt crisis has
weighed on equity markets. Germany’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  has
tumbled 22 percent over the past two months and the euro
depreciated 5 percent against the dollar in that period.  Germany’s lower house of parliament, or Bundestag, votes
today on measures to enhance the European bailout fund, or
European Financial Stability Facility. Even though support from
the opposition ensures passage,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
struggled to rally votes to secure a majority within her own
coalition as lawmakers balk at further German funding.  German Exports  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  this week won
parliamentary backing for a property tax to meet deficit-
reduction targets required to receive an 8 billion-euro ($11
billion) aid payment and avoid a sovereign default. Countries
such as Spain and Ireland have also been forced to toughen
austerity measures and step up spending cuts.  With European governments seeking ways to plug their budget
gaps, German companies may struggle to maintain their sales
growth. Exports unexpectedly declined in July and manufacturing
growth slowed this month, underscoring signs the economy is
losing momentum. German investor confidence this month fell to
the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 lowered its
growth forecast for both Germany and the euro region this year
and next. The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-
region growth forecasts for the second half and warned the
economy may come “close to standstill at year-end.”  Bernhard Maier, sales chief at Porsche, said the carmaker
will be able to weather a global slowdown.  “I’m very confident that we’ll have a chance to keep
growing next year even if economies are cooling down somewhat,”
he said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We’re seeing no
reaction to our order intake and sales” from recent stock-
market turbulences.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  