-- 
Gilts Rise on Bets Bank of England Moving Closer to Buying Bonds

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T12:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/gilts-rise-on-bets-bank-of-england-moving-closer-to-buying-bonds.html
U.K. gilts rose, driving 10-year
yields lower for the first time in five days, amid speculation
the central bank is preparing to add economic stimulus by
purchasing bonds as soon as next month.  The yield on two-year notes fell the most in a week after
 Bank of England  Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said policy makers
have the tools available to provide additional “monetary
loosening.” U.K. house prices were little changed in September
and “downside risks” to the  property market  have increased as
economic prospects weaken,  Nationwide Building Society  said. A
separate report showed mortgage approvals rose last month.  “Given the potential magnitude of announcement effects, it
would make sense for gilts to remain relatively supported,”
said  Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in London. The central bank is likely to start a so-called
quantitative-easing program with 50 billion pounds ($78 billion)
of debt purchases in November, he said.  The yield on 10-year bonds fell six basis points to 2.49
percent at 1:34 p.m. in  London . The 3.75 percent security
maturing in September 2021 advanced 0.595, or 5.95 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 111.030. The two-year note yield
declined two basis points to 0.58 percent after dropping to as
low as 0.55 percent.  Sterling climbed 0.4 percent to $1.5638, and was little
changed at 87.07 pence per euro.  Economic Stimulus  Yields on 30-year gilts reached a record-low 3.45 percent
on Sept. 23 as speculation that Bank of England officials are
moving closer to adding economic stimulus. Most of the nine-
member Monetary Policy Committee said that more bond purchases
are “increasingly probable,” according to minutes from this
month’s meeting.  While Dale said inflation may exceed 5 percent in the
coming months, meaning restarting asset purchases isn’t a “no-
brainer,” he also said that the global slowdown now looks
“more persistent,” according to an interview with the Daily
Mail newspaper published in London today. MPC member Ben
Broadbent said on Sept. 26 that he was “reasonably close” to
voting for more QE, while  David Miles  said the case for stimulus
has become more “finely balanced.”  Ten-year gilts rose 1.7 times their average change over the
past 90 days, the second-highest among 24 developed markets
monitored by Bloomberg.  Home Costs  “The increasing likelihood of further QE in the U.K. is
driving the price action in gilts,” said Nishay Patel, a fixed-
income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “We expect the
Bank of England to announce QE in the U.K. soon.”  The average cost of a home rose 0.1 percent from August,
the Nationwide said today. From a year earlier, values were down
0.3 percent.  The outlook for the property market has darkened as the
euro-area debt crisis weighs on the economy and pushes up banks’
funding costs. While data today showed U.K. mortgage approvals
rose in August to the highest in 20 months as record-low
borrowing costs supported housing demand, they’re still only
about half the monthly average in the decade to 2007, before the
financial crisis struck.  Gilts have returned 7.8 percent in the third quarter, more
than the 7.1 percent increase in German bunds and 6.1 percent
gain from U.S. Treasuries, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies showed.
Sterling is 2.6 percent weaker against the greenback in the
period, while it has strengthened 3.7 percent versus the euro.  The Bank of England will report its next interest-rate and
bond-buying decisions on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  