-- 
Gingrich Offers New ‘Contract With America’ With Revamp of U.S. Tax Code

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-29T19:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/gingrich-to-offer-new-contract-of-proposals.html
Republican presidential hopeful
 Newt Gingrich  today outlined a series of proposals modeled after
the 1994 “Contract with America” that vaulted him into the
House speakership, including a revamp of the tax code and
methods to replace last year’s health-care overhaul.  Gingrich, who released his 10-part plan at a town hall
meeting today in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , is banking on the
announcement to revive his bid for the White House, which polls
show lags far behind top rivals Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  His 1994 contract provided an agenda and unifying campaign
message for Republicans before they won the House majority in
that year’s November elections for the first time in four
decades. It also earned Gingrich, of  Georgia , a reputation as an
idea-generator for his party.  As part of today’s “21st Century Contract With America,”
Gingrich proposes the repeal of financial-sector regulations as
part of changes designed to curb government rules on business.
Laws that he would sidetrack include the overhaul of financial
rules approved last year to respond to the financial crisis and
the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002, which aims protect investors
from fraudulent accounting by corporations. He also calls for
abolishing the  National Labor Relations Board .  The flagging  U.S. economy  can only recover if a host of
tax, regulatory and other changes occur that turn back the scope
of the federal government, Gingrich said in an outline of the
plan posted on his campaign web site.  Principles of 1994  “We understood these principles when we won the first
Republican majority in the House in 40 years in 1994,” said
Gingrich, who served as speaker for four years beginning in
January 1995. “Balanced budgets, streamlined government and the
biggest capital gains tax cut in history led to unemployment
falling to under 4 percent by 2000.”  In polls of Republican voters, the former Georgia
congressman has routinely ranked behind Perry, Romney, Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  and Texas Representative  Ron Paul . Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who hasn’t announced a
bid, also tops Gingrich.  A Sept. 9-12 Bloomberg National Poll found Gingrich won the
support of 4 percent of Republican and Republican-leaning
voters. Perry garnered the backing of 26 percent, while Romney
had the support of 22 percent.  Repeal and Replace  In his proposal, Gingrich called for repealing the health-
care law that is President Barack Obama’s signature
accomplishment. Gingrich said he would replace the law’s
requirement that most Americans buy health insurance or face a
penalty with either a “generous” tax credit or the ability to
deduct a portion of the value of their health coverage from what
they owe the government.  He also advocates health policies adopted by other
Republican politicians, including allowing health-care consumers
to purchase insurance across state lines, expansion of tax-
advantaged health  savings accounts  and curbs to “frivolous”
medical malpractice lawsuits.  On taxes, he seeks to reduce the corporate  tax rate  to 12.5
percent from 35 percent, end taxes on estates and on  capital
gains , and allow companies to write off all of the costs of new
equipment in one year. Individual taxpayers would be given the
option of filing their tax returns under an optional “flat
tax” that offers a lower income tax rate but limits tax
deductions.  Boosting Growth  Gingrich said he wants to balance the federal budget
without tax increases, asserting that higher economic growth
could generate revenue needed to accomplish that goal.  “I’m for more revenue through royalties from oil
exploration, not from tax hikes,” Gingrich said on Twitter
after the Iowa event began.  On entitlement programs, he calls for allowing younger
Americans the option of putting some of their Social Security
savings into personal savings accounts, embracing an idea that
Republicans in Congress refused to advance under former
President  George W. Bush .  Gingrich’s bid for the Republican nomination suffered a
setback in June when more than a dozen of his campaign staffers
resigned after disagreeing with him over strategy and the role
of his wife, Callista. Those who left included his national co-
chairman and his campaign manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  