-- 
Google Joins Apple Mobilizing Lobbyists to Push for Tax Holiday

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/google-joins-apple-mobilizing-lobbyists-to-push-for-tax-holiday-on-profits.html
As a coalition led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  presses for a tax holiday on
more than $1 trillion in offshore profits, it is turning to a
well-positioned lobbyist: Jeffrey Forbes, once chief of staff to
 Max Baucus , chairman of the tax-writing Senate Finance
Committee.  Data compiled by Bloomberg News show that Forbes is part of
an army of more than 160 lobbyists, including at least 60 who
once worked for a sitting member of the House or Senate, pushing
for the repatriation holiday. Their job is to persuade Congress
to establish a tax break estimated to cost the U.S. government
$78.7 billion over the next decade.  Independent studies have found that the last time this tax
break was tried, in 2004, the bargain rate for bringing home
offshore profits did little to spur hiring or domestic
investment. Most of the money was used to buy back stock.  “This is an issue that involves a whole lot of people
hired by corporations that are pushing for those corporate
interests rather than the public interest,” said James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies at American University in Washington.  Though the studies found that money brought home in 2004
ended up benefiting a narrow set of shareholders, support is
growing in Congress for the tax holiday as companies expand
their roster of lobbyists. One case they are making is that the
potential flood of cash will boost the faltering U.S. economy.  Complex Issues  “There are many issues that are very important but are
complex and don’t seem of great importance to the wider public -
- those are the issues primed for having people who formerly
worked on the Hill or executive branch intervening in making
policy,” Thurber said.  Those with Capitol Hill connections who are lobbying for
the repatriation tax break include former Louisiana
Representative Jim McCrery, who until 2009 was the top
Republican on the U.S. House’s tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee; Dena Battle, the former legislative director for that
committee’s current chairman, Representative  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican; and at least four former staffers for House
Speaker  John Boehner .  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, an  Ohio Republican ,
said former staff members don’t influence policy. “The speaker
makes such decisions based on what is best for his constituents
and the American people,” Steel said.  ‘Regenerate the Economy’  Advocates for the break say a repatriation holiday would
bring more than $1 trillion to the U.S. now held overseas.  “It would do much to regenerate the economy,” said Robert Livingston, a former Republican chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee and speaker-designate who is now
lobbying for  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  “A total of $1.5 trillion from all
affected U.S. companies would go a long way to pull us out of
the doldrums.”  There are more insiders pushing for the tax holiday than
those in Bloomberg News’ tally of at least 60. That figure
includes only registered lobbyists who worked for a sitting
member of Congress and disclosed lobbying on the issue for the
WIN America Campaign, the group of  companies  seeking the break,
or for one of the companies or associations in the coalition.  WIN America is coordinated by SKDKnickerbocker, a
Washington political consulting and public relations firm, which
includes as a managing director Anita Dunn, former
communications director for President  Barack Obama . Dunn isn’t a
registered lobbyist.  Longtime Fixtures  The list of more than 160 lobbyists includes other longtime
fixtures in Washington, such as former Representative
Livingston; Democratic fundraiser Tony Podesta; and Kenneth Kies, former chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation.  The proposed break has gained momentum in recent months,
with several prominent Democrats, including Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, expressing a willingness to consider the
tax holiday. Meanwhile, Republican presidential candidates
 Michele Bachmann , a House member from Minnesota, and Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  have called on Congress to let companies
bring home offshore earnings at a reduced  tax rate .  The Obama administration has said it is opposed to a stand-
alone tax holiday for repatriated profits, pointing to the 2004
experience. Obama has been taking aim at tax breaks benefiting
certain industries, such as oil and gas, and deductions and
exclusions claimed by millionaires. He has embraced changes
suggested by billionaire  Warren Buffett , who has said he pays
taxes at a lower rate than his secretary.  U.S. multinational companies have amassed more than $1.375
trillion in profits overseas on which they have paid no federal
income tax, according to a recent report by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
When the earnings are returned to the U.S. -- or repatriated --
they are taxed at the top corporate rate of 35 percent, with
credits for foreign income taxes paid.  Reprising 2004 Holiday  The companies are pushing to reprise the 2004 holiday that
allowed them to bring home offshore earnings at a low tax rate
of 5.25 percent. Under that break, companies repatriated to the
U.S. $312 billion, largely for stock repurchases rather than
direct hiring or investment, according to a recent paper in the
Journal of Finance, the latest in a series of studies that
reached similar conclusions.  The proposed holiday would reward the companies that have
most aggressively parked profits in  tax havens  such as Bermuda,
the Cayman Islands and Switzerland, said Martin A. Sullivan, a
former Treasury Department economist and contributing editor for
the non-partisan Tax Notes.  “A lot of what companies report as foreign profit is
really U.S. profit that should be subject to U.S. tax,”
Sullivan said. “Those earnings didn’t get overseas by accident.
Many of these companies intentionally put them there to avoid
paying U.S. taxes.”  Tally of Lobbyists  Bloomberg’s tally covers individuals who were registered to
lobby on the repatriation issue at some point in the first half
of this year, the period for which records are available. Some
of the lobbyists have since left their firms. The figures don’t
include those who were listed as lobbying on general tax issues
for companies in the WIN America coalition, except where the
lobbyists confirmed to Bloomberg News that they were working on
repatriation.  Newer members of the revolving-door community are involved,
such as Danielle Maurer, a lobbyist at the Republican firm of
Fierce, Isakowitz & Blalock. It has been paid $160,000 so far
this year by Oracle to lobby on a variety of tax issues, and the
Win America coalition recently hired the firm. Maurer had been
director of member services for Boehner, helping assign House
members to committees.  Baucus Alumni  In all, three former staffers of Baucus, the Finance
Committee’s chairman since 2007, are lobbying on the
repatriation holiday. Besides Forbes, there’s Nick Giordano of
Washington Council Ernst & Young, a longtime Cisco lobbyist.
Microsoft has retained Timothy E. Punke, a former adviser to
Baucus on trade issues who is active in Democratic politics.  The WIN America campaign’s manager is Karen Olick, former
chief of staff to Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat.
One of the spokesmen for the group is  Doug Thornell , who most
recently was a staffer for Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a
Maryland Democrat who is a member of the House leadership. Like
Anita Dunn, Thornell and Olick aren’t registered lobbyists.  “Our economy needs all the help it can get, and leaving
this money in foreign banks when we could bring it home now
makes no sense,” Thornell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  