-- 
Google Targets IBM, Adobe With Advertising-Analysis Web Service

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-29T18:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/google-targets-ibm-adobe-with-advertising-analysis-web-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, will sell an analytics service for
online advertisers, in a direct challenge to offerings from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   Google Analytics Premium costs $150,000 a year and gives
increased processing power, phone support and the ability to
measure the impact of a new campaign within four hours of
posting it online, said Amy Chang, director of product
management, in an interview.  Mountain View , California-based Google is adding new
services catering to large businesses to lessen its reliance on
online advertising. While a  free version  of Google’s analytics
tool has hundreds of thousands of users, added features in the
paid version may lure corporate clients who currently rely on
services from IBM and Adobe, Chang said.  “Everyone is struggling to get better ad spend,” Chang
said. “Google Analytics allows everyone across the board on a
marketing team to be a data-driven marketer.”  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , gained an advertising-
analysis service with its purchase of Coremetrics Inc. last
year.  San Jose , California-based Adobe added a similar business
through its 2009 purchase of Omniture Inc. for $1.55 billion.  Google said it will have dedicated salespeople and support
teams for its paid data service. The four-hour turnaround for
analysis compares with 24 hours for the free version.  “It changes the decision making from days into minutes and
that matters to a lot of marketers and a lot of clients,” Chang
said.  Companies that have signed up for the paid service include
Travelocity.com Inc., Gucci Group NV, TransUnion Corp. and  Papa
John’s International Inc. (PZZA) , Google said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 douglas_macmillan@businessweek.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  