-- 
Graceway Pharmaceuticals Seeks Bankruptcy, Sale to Galderma

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-29T17:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/graceway-pharmaceuticals-files-for-bankruptcy-in-delaware.html
Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, a
maker of skin treatments and asthma medication, sought
 bankruptcy protection  with a plan to sell its assets to Galderma
SA for $275 million.  The closely held company, based in Bristol,  Tennessee ,
listed debt of as much as $1 billion and assets of as much as
$500 million in Chapter 11 documents filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Graceway cited the loss of patent protection on Aldara, a
cream used to treat precancerous skin growths and genital warts
that was once its biggest product. Net revenue from Aldara fell
to about $52.2 million in 2010 from about $320.8 million a year
earlier after generic-drug makers gained the right to produce
cheaper copies, according to court documents.  “The loss of exclusivity with respect to Aldara, and the
resulting decrease in net sales, is the primary factor that has
led” to the bankruptcy, Gregory C. Jones, Graceway’s executive
vice president of strategic development, said in court papers.  Galderma, based in Cham,  Switzerland , agreed to buy
virtually all of Graceway’s assets in the U.S. and  Canada  for
about $275 million in cash, plus the assumption of certain
liabilities, according to court papers. Graceway said it will
ask to hold an auction to seek better offers. The company
expects to complete the sale by the end of January, according to
a statement issued yesterday.  3M Purchase  GTCR Golder Rauner LLC, a Chicago-based private-equity firm
with more than $8 billion under management, formed Graceway in a
2006 partnership with Chief Executive Officer Jefferson J.
Gregory, according to court filings. Graceway bought  3M Co. (MMM) ’s
pharmaceutical business in the Americas, including Aldara, for
$875 million in 2007.  Graceway sued Nycomed U.S. Inc., based in Melville,  New
York , and  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , based in Allegan,  Michigan , in February
2010 for infringing its Aldara patents with generic versions,
according to court documents.  A federal judge in  New Jersey  denied Graceway’s request to
halt the sale of the drugs. Perrigo later settled with Graceway,
authorizing it as a generic distributor of Aldara. The Nycomed
lawsuit hasn’t been resolved, court papers show.  Aldara generated about 85 percent of Graceway’s sales in
2009, a share that plummeted to about 16 percent in the first
two quarters of 2011, according to court papers. To make up for
the lost sales, Graceway developed Zyclara, which is used to
remedy the same skin conditions.  Zyclara Sales  The company can exclusively market Zyclara for treating
certain skin diseases related to sun overexposure until 2013 and
for treating genital warts until 2014, court papers show.  Zyclara accounted for more than a third of Graceway’s sales
in the first two quarters of 2011. The Maxair Autohaler, a
rescue inhaler used to treat asthma, generated about 16 percent
of sales in the period.  Graceway owes about $430.7 million to lenders with a first
priority of repayment, court papers show. The drugmaker owes
about $330 million to second-lien lenders and about $81.4
million to unsecured mezzanine lenders represented by Goldman
Sachs Credit Partners LP as agent. Trade and general unsecured
creditors are owed about $30 million.  The company will seek court approval of a $6 million
intercompany loan to help fund operations while in bankruptcy,
according to court documents.  The case is In re Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, 11-13036,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The
Lawsuit is in re Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC v. Perrigo Co.,
10-00937, District Court of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 