-- 
Libyan Leaders Seek Interpol Assistance in Search for Qaddafi’s Son Saadi

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-29T15:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/libya-leaders-seek-interpol-warrants-in-hunt-for-saadi-qaddafi-officials.html
Libya ’s interim government asked
Interpol to issue an international arrest warrant for Muammar Qaddafi’s son Saadi as it seeks to round up former officials and
create stability in the North African nation.  The National Transitional Council asked Interpol to issue
the warrant for Saadi, who fled to Niger this month, on
suspicion of “misappropriating properties through force and
armed intimidation” when he headed the Libyan Football
Federation, Interpol said today in a  statement  on its website.  It was the first time the NTC approached Interpol to issue
a warrant, the Paris-based police group said. Interpol issued
so-called red notices for Muammar Gaddafi, his apparent heir and
son Saif al-Islam and former military intelligence director
Abdullah al-Senussi at the request of the  International Criminal
Court  on Sept. 9 for alleged crimes against humanity.  The council says it wants to try former government
officials in Libya. Its drive to complete the liberation of the
country is being hampered by political infighting and the
doggedness of Qaddafi’s supporters in their last two strongholds
of Bani Walid and Sirte. NTC officials say that a new government
will only be unveiled once all of Libya is under their control.  Ali Tarhouni, the official in charge of Libya’s finance and
oil ministries, told reporters today in Tripoli, the capital,
that a government would be formed “very soon.”  Oil Output Rises  The fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year rule reduced oil
output and disrupted power supplies in the country with  Africa ’s
largest crude reserves. Libya is already producing 300,000
barrels a day of oil, Tarhouni said, adding that $1.5 billion of
Libya’s funds had been unfrozen.  Interpol’s warrant for Saadi “will significantly restrict
his ability to travel and cross international borders,” its
secretary-general, Ronald K. Noble, said in the statement. “It
is a powerful tool that will help authorities locate and arrest
him.”  Saadi is also subject to a United Nations travel ban and
assets freeze imposed in March because he was a commander of
military units allegedly involved in the repression of
demonstrations during Libya’s uprising.  Libyan Justice Minister Mohammed Al-Alaji said yesterday
that the NTC asked Tunisia to extradite former Prime Minister
Baghdadi Mahmoudi.  Sirte Battle  Saif al-Islam may be leading loyalist fighters in Bani
Walid and another son, Mutassim may be in charge of supporters
in the family’s hometown of Sirte, Ahmed Bani, the NTC military
spokesman, told reporters yesterday in Tripoli.  The battle for Sirte will be over “very soon,” with NTC
forces already in control of the airport and port, NTC spokesman
Abdul Busin said today in a telephone interview in Tripoli. NTC
forces “are holding off slightly” in some areas of Sirte for
the moment, he said.  U.S. Senator  John McCain  told reporters in Tripoli today
that America will help find Qaddafi.  Bani said he couldn’t confirm reports Qaddafi is hiding in
the western town of Ghadames near the border by  Algeria  under
the protection of Tuareg tribesmen. The NTC isn’t greatly
concerned about Qaddafi’s whereabouts, he added.  “We are working on the full and complete liberation of
Libya, and to secure all the cities,” Bani said. “After that,
we will do our best to look for this person. This does not worry
us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Tripoli at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  