-- 
Libya’s Interim Government Seeks Interpol Help in Hunt for Qaddafi Aides

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T06:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/libyan-leaders-vow-to-remove-weapons-from-tripoli-in-bid-to-restore-calm.html
Libya ’s interim administration
pledged to restore calm and remove heavy weapons from the
capital, Tripoli, and said two of  Muammar Qaddafi ’s sons may be
leading loyalists in his last strongholds.  Heavy weapons have no place in Tripoli, Ahmed Bani,the
National Transitional Council’s military spokesman, told
reporters yesterday in the capital, where gunfire is regularly
heard a month after NTC forces took control of the city.  Qaddafi’s presumed heir, Saif Al Islam, is in Bani Walid
and another son, Mutassim, a former security adviser, may be in
the family’s hometown of Sirte, Bani said. He said he couldn’t
confirm reports Muammar Qaddafi is hiding in the western town of
Ghadames near the border by  Algeria   under the protection of
Tuareg tribesmen.  “We are working on the full and complete liberation of
Libya, and to secure all the cities,” Bani said. “After that,
we will do our best to look for this person. This does not worry
us.”  NTC fighters have been trying to gain control of Sirte and
Bani Walid since talks on their peaceful surrender broke down
earlier this month.  Political infighting and the doggedness of Qaddafi’s
supporters are hampering the drive by Libya’s interim leaders to
complete the liberation of the North African nation and form a
new cabinet. NTC officials said this week that a new government
will only be unveiled when the entire country is liberated.  Saif Al Islam appeared on television on Sept. 27 trying to
rally loyalists to continue their fight, in footage aired by
Syria-based Arrai TV. The broadcaster said the video was dated
to Sept. 20 and didn’t say where it was filmed.  Fighting in Sirte has been halted to allow civilians to
flee and for ammunition to arrive. Bani said the city’s port,
airport and military base are now under NTC control.  “North Sirte is free,” he said, adding that the south had
been breached by NTC fighters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Tripoli at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  