-- 
Libyan Interim Leader Jibril Says It May Take Months to Form a Government

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-30T07:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/libyan-interim-leader-jibril-says-it-may-take-months-to-form-a-government.html
Libya  may not have a new interim
government for weeks or months, said Mahmoud Jibril, prime
minister of the nation’s National Transitional Council.  No government will be formed until the entire North African
country is liberated, including the cities of Sirte and Bani
Walid where forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  continue to fight,
Jibril told journalists yesterday in Tripoli, the capital.  “There was a decision by the NTC to maintain the executive
office as is with some changes at the ministries,” he said.
Libya’s liberation “can take a week, a month. We don’t know.”  The formation of an interim Cabinet has been repeatedly
postponed since the NTC took Tripoli in late August. The council
has been working to stabilize the economy and establish
authority over factions that rebelled against Qaddafi, including
the council in Misrata, the main rebel stronghold in the west
during the seven-month conflict. The Misrata council is leading
the Sirte operation.  The NTC is working on legislation to review and raise all
salaries in the country and hasn’t yet discussed forming a new
Cabinet, Jibril said.  Frozen Assets  Jibril said that while $16 billion of Libyan assets have
been unfrozen, the council has gotten “much less” than this
amount. The $16 billion will be more than enough to fund the
government for the time being, he said.  He also said the council plans to scrap all tariffs on
imports of food and foodstuffs and to import 750,000 heads of
lamb to feed Libyans during the upcoming Islamic holiday Eid Al
Adha. The interim government also approved payments of a 400-
dinar ($323) monthly stipend to the families of those killed in
the revolt and a salary of 450 dinars to 500 dinars a month for
soldiers who fought in the conflict, he said.  A Republican U.S. congressional delegation, led by Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , toured Tripoli and met with Jibril and
other council leaders.  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois ,  Lindsey Graham  of
 South Carolina  and Marco Rubio of  Florida  were also in the
group.  Libya “inspires people in Tehran, Beijing, Damascus and
Moscow,” McCain said. “The U.S. has confidence in this
council.”  “My impressions are that they are making progress,” he
said in an interview with  CNN . “They do have significant
challenges in a variety of ways, including the fact that a lot
of the militias that are out there taking part in the fighting
against Qaddafi forces are still not under their control.”  Battle for Sirte  The battle for Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte will be over
“very soon,” with council forces already in control of the
airport and port, NTC spokesman Abdul Busin said yesterday in a
telephone interview in Tripoli. NTC forces “are holding off
slightly” in some areas of Sirte for the moment, he said.  Libya now is producing 300,000 barrels a day of oil, Ali Tarhouni, the official in charge of the North African nation’s
finance and oil ministries, told reporters in Tripoli yesterday.  Libyan oil production slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in
July from 1.7 million barrels in January, according to the
 International Energy Agency , as a result of the uprising against
Qaddafi’s rule.  Libya’s interim government is taking all necessary measures
to control stockpiles of chemical weapons that were captured
last week, The Hague-based Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons said.  “We welcome the fact that Libyan authorities are taking
necessary measures to secure the bunkers,” OPCW Director-
General Ahmet Uzumcu said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“It is important for the OPCW that these stockpiles are secured
and misuse is prevented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Tripoli, Libya, at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  