-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Add Comcast, Verizon Pay TV to Xbox Live

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/microsoft-is-said-to-plan-xbox-live-expansion-with-comcast-pay-tv-service.html
Microsoft Corp.  plans to offer
online pay television service from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  through  Xbox Live , in an bid to channel more
entertainment to its video-game console, people with knowledge
of the situation said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , is in talks with
almost two dozen providers of music, sports, movies and TV shows
in the U.S. and  Europe , and may announce an expanded Xbox Live
streaming service as soon as next week, said one of the people,
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer is promoting the Xbox
360 console as a way to switch easily between games, DVDs and
pay TV. He said on Sept. 14 that by Christmas, Microsoft will
add the Bing search engine to the Xbox and use its Kinect
controller’s voice recognition to sift through shows on the Web.  “We all know the frustrations of using guides and menus
and controllers, and we think a better way to do all of this is
simply to bring Bing and voice to Xbox,” Ballmer said at a
developers conference. “You say it, Xbox finds it.”  Microsoft also expects to sign deals with  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO cable channel, Sony Pictures Entertainment’s Crackle
streaming service, NBC Universal’s Bravo and Syfy channels and
Lovefilm UK, a subsidiary of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the person said.  Wayne Hickey, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment, as did Bobbi Henson, a spokeswoman for Verizon, and
Jennifer Khoury of Comcast, which controls NBC. Greg Belloni, a
Sony spokesman, had no immediate comment. Dorothy Jean, a
spokeswoman for Lovefilm, declined to comment. An HBO
spokesperson declined to comment.  Pay-TV Tether  The new applications from Philadelphia-based Comcast’s
Xfinity TV service and New York-based Verizon’s FiOs would
require users to prove they already are pay-TV customers in
regions where the services operate, two of the people said.  The Xbox 360 plays DVDs and video games, and owners can pay
$60 a year for the Xbox Live premium service, which allows for
multi-user play over Web. Console owners can also add
subscriptions to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s and Hulu LLC’s online film and
television services, and pay-TV through  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse in
its markets.  The surge in online entertainment has thrust the Xbox 360
and its console rival,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation 3, into
competition with other Web-connected devices in the home, from
DVRs to television sets.  Microsoft’s Moves  Since last year, Microsoft has integrated social networking
features into Xbox Live, letting viewers chat with each other
while watching movies and shows. The company announced in June
that 35 million people used its paid Xbox Live service around
the world, spending an average of 60 hours a month playing games
and watching entertainment.  Comcast had 22.5 million pay-TV customers as of June 30.
Verizon Fios had 3.8 million.  Cable and satellite TV providers such as Comcast are
looking to stem defections by putting their services on more
devices and making it easier for them watch.  In June, Comcast CEO  Brian Roberts  demonstrated a TV
interface called Xcalibur that uses Web-connected servers to
forgo the need for a set-top box at all.  Microsoft fell 9 cents to $25.58 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Comcast lost 33 cents to $22. Verizon slid 5
cents to $36.84 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  