-- 
Micron Technology Declines After Posting Quarterly Loss on PC Chip Prices

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-30T20:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/micron-posts-loss-as-weak-pc-demand-depresses-chip-prices-shares-decline.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, fell in U.S. trading after
reporting a fiscal fourth-quarter loss on weak demand for
personal computers.  The net loss was $135 million, or 14 cents a share,
compared with a profit of $342 million, or 32 cents, a year
earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Revenue in the period ended Sept. 1 fell 14 percent
to $2.14 billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average
estimated profit of 2 cents on sales of $2.11 billion.  The price of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, which
provides the main memory in PCs, dropped as supply increased and
demand from makers of laptops and desktop PCs remained sluggish.  “It looks pretty bad,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst
at MKM Partners LLC. “It used to be if you got supply right,
you were fine. Now there seems to be something wrong with
demand.”  Micron shares declined 83 cents, or 14 percent, to $5.04 at
4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, for the biggest
decrease in three months. The stock has dropped 37 percent this
year.  The company is the only remaining U.S.-based maker of DRAM
after Asian manufacturers forced out the pioneers of the
industry, such as  Intel Corp . and Texas Instruments Inc.
Producers’ inability to match supply to demand in DRAM has hurt
earnings as prices for the chips, which are traded on commodity
exchanges in  Asia , often fell below the cost of production.  Consumer Business  “The PC business is not super strong going into the
holidays,” said Mark Adams, Micron’s head of sales, on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “The consumer business
seems off on the demand side.”  DRAM prices have fallen 15 percent this quarter, Micron
said.  Separately, Micron said the trial phase of its legal
dispute with Rambus Inc. concluded on Sept. 21, and the jury is
deliberating on the verdict. A negative outcome could have a
material impact on results for the fourth quarter, the company
said in the filing.  For the 2011 fiscal year, Micron reported net income of
$167 million, or 17 cents a share. Before yesterday, Micron had
reported an annual profit in only four of the past 10 years. The
company goes head-to-head with  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s second-largest chipmaker behind Intel.  Micron has lessened its dependence on DRAM by following
Samsung and Toshiba Corp. into the market for Nand  flash memory ,
chips that provide the storage in portable electronics such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 