-- 
Time to Kill Another European Transactions Tax Proposal: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/time-to-kill-another-european-transactions-tax-proposal-view.html
Some bad ideas won’t die. The
European Union proposed yesterday raising about 57 billion euros
($78 billion) a year by taxing trades of stocks, bonds and
derivatives by financial institutions.  In addition to being politically unfeasible and poorly
designed, the tax would undermine the one thing Europe needs
most to counter rising debt burdens: economic growth.  A transactions tax was first championed by John  Maynard Keynes  during the Great Depression. Another prominent economist,
 James Tobin , resurrected the idea in the 1970s -- the levy is
often called a “ Tobin tax ” -- as a way to dampen  currency
speculation . In 2009, the tax idea rose again, this time as a
Robin Hood effort to reclaim money from the bailed-out financial
sector to make U.S. and European taxpayers whole.  Bill Gates ,
the Microsoft founder, is said to be considering recommending a
transactions tax as a means for the Group of 20 bloc to
replenish development financing for poor nations.  The tax is doomed -- and for good reasons. Politically,
it’s a nonstarter because EU treaty rules require region-wide
tax proposals to be adopted unanimously by the 27 member
nations. With many British jobs dependent on the vibrancy of the
City of  London , Europe’s busiest financial district, Britain
won’t back it.  The British are being slyly hypocritical here. They already
impose a small duty -- a “stamp tax” dating from the 17th
century -- on stock trades. The new proposal would raise that
tax and divert the extra amount to Brussels. Seeking to soften
British opposition, the EU has proposed exempting foreign
exchange trades, which the City dominates. U.K. officials still
fear the tax would drive financial jobs offshore and so insist
they will only support it if it’s adopted globally.  Highly Unlikely  That’s highly unlikely even without the opposition of U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner , who appears dead-set against a
transactions tax.  The case against the tax includes more than political and
practical arguments. The U.K.-based  Institute of Development
Studies  has concluded that the tax, which the group supports,
wouldn’t increase market distortions but probably wouldn’t
stabilize volatile financial markets, either. At the same time,
the IDS study agreed with Geithner and others that the tax would
ultimately miss its intended targets.  Financial institutions would bear the initial cost, the
study said, but in the long run a significant proportion could
be passed to retail investors and consumers. Although the EU
would try to insulate households and small businesses from the
levy -- a 10-euro fee on a 10,000-euro stock purchase would be
“not excessive” it said -- banks could bypass fee caps by
embedding additional costs in commissions, markups or other
tricks.  Among the many reasons to oppose the tax, however, one
reigns supreme. The EU says the tax would slow economic growth
by 0.5 percent of gross domestic product. At a time when  Europe 
would swoon over a growth rate of 1 percent or more, a proposal
that entails a half-point decline in GDP represents bad policy,
badly timed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  