-- 
Imperial Put Trades Soared to Record Ahead of U.S. Probe Report

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-09-29T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/imperial-put-trades-soared-to-record-ahead-of-u-s-probe-report.html
Imperial Holdings Inc.’s bearish
options trading surged to a record before the financial firm
said some executives are under investigation, sending the shares
down by more than half yesterday.  Volume for puts to sell shares totaled 1,948 on Sept. 27,
or 85 times the daily average since the options were listed on
exchanges in February and 35 times the number of calls to buy.
Put volume that day was more than double the 882 contracts that
changed hands since the options began trading in March, and were
the first transactions for the derivatives since Sept. 12.  “This feels like a trade with prior knowledge of a news
event, or extraordinarily good timing,” said Ophir Gottlieb,
managing director of client services at San Francisco-based
Livevol Inc., which sells options-market analytics.  Imperial, the provider of insurance-premium financing that
raised $189.2 million in its U.S. initial public offering in
February, was served with a federal search warrant on Sept. 27,
the  Boca Raton , Florida-based company said in a statement after
the market closed that day.  Chief Executive Officer Antony Mitchell, 45, and Chief
Operating Officer Jonathan Neuman are among employees “under
investigation in the District of  New Hampshire ” in connection
with the company’s life-finance business, the company said
yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Imperial plunged 65 percent yesterday in New York, closing
at $2.19. The stock had dropped 41 percent since its IPO through
1:42 p.m. on Sept. 27, when trading was halted, according to
exchange data sent to Bloomberg.  The Palm Beach Post reported at 2:26 p.m. local time that
agents of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  had raided
Imperial’s headquarters.  Blocks of 80  The most-active options on Sept. 27 were October $5 puts,
which accounted for more than half of all volume. Those
contracts, which had never traded before that day, changed hands
in blocks as large as 80 starting at 11:25 a.m.  Those puts first traded at 10 cents and increased more than
27-fold to $2.75 yesterday. A block of 80 contracts conveys the
right to sell 8,000 common shares.  Material information about an investigation and search
warrant can be obtained ahead of a public disclosure without
breaching insider-trading rules, according to  John Coffee , a
securities-law professor at  Columbia University  in New York.  “People around courthouses aren’t always quiet, there’s a
lot of gossip in the hallways,” Coffee said yesterday in a
phone interview. “If it’s mere gossip, and someone hears
it, they’re basically free to trade.”  ‘Complete Surprise’  The probe is “a complete surprise,” Mitchell said in the
statement. “We are not aware of any wrongdoing and will
cooperate fully with all relevant authorities to assist them in
their investigation.”  Mitchell, Neuman and David Sasso, Imperial’s director of
 investor relations , didn’t respond to phone messages yesterday.
John Kacavas, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Hampshire,
declined to comment on the investigation.  “Any criminal or civil investigation may affect the
ability of the company to continue as a going concern,” Scott Valentin, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, which led the
company’s IPO, wrote yesterday in a note. Valentin cut his
rating on Imperial to “market perform” from “outperform” and
now predicts the stock may trade at $6.20 a share within the
next year, down from $15.  Imperial, which ended yesterday with a market value of
$46.4 million, retained law firm Greenberg Traurig LLP,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  