-- 
India to Borrow 32% More Than Planned in Second Half; Bonds Drop

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-09-29T11:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/india-to-borrow-32-more-than-planned-in-second-half-bonds-drop.html
India ’s federal government
increased its debt-sale target for the second half of the
financial year by about 32 percent, citing a drop in state-run
small savings plans. Ten-year bonds slumped.  The finance ministry plans to raise 2.2 trillion rupees
($45 billion) selling bonds in the six months ending March 31,
higher than the budgeted 1.67 trillion rupees, R. Gopalan,
secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, told reporters in New
Delhi today. The government raised 2.5 trillion rupees in the
first six months of the year.  “This has come as a negative surprise,” said Nirav Dalal,
the Mumbai-based head of debt markets at Yes Bank Ltd.
“Considering the heightened fiscal conditions globally, there
was a sense that the government would maintain their numbers.”  The yield on the benchmark 7.8 percent note due April 2021
jumped 10 basis points to 8.44 percent after the announcement,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The rupee fell
0.5 percent to 48.97 a dollar at the 5 p.m. close of trading.  The government expects a shortfall of 350 billion rupees
because of fewer collections in small-savings accounts, and
dwindling cash reserves, Gopalan said. The surplus at the
beginning of the year was 170 billion rupees less than expected,
and a dip in the available sources of funds prompted the
government to lift market borrowings, he said.  Taming Inflation  The nation’s benchmark bond yield has risen about 50 basis
points, or half a percentage point, this year as the  Reserve
Bank  of India increased borrowing costs six times to tame
inflation that remained above 9 percent for nine consecutive
months. It has also surged the most among the 14 economies in
 Asia  this year, partly on concern slower economic growth and
higher  oil prices  may cause slippages in tax collections and
boost fuel subsidies.  The government predicts the economy will expand 8 percent
this financial year, slower than the 8.5 percent in the previous
12 months.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will still meet his goal
of narrowing the  budget deficit  to a four-year low of 4.6
percent of the gross domestic product, Gopalan said. Mukherjee
is aiming to increase the  tax revenue  by 18.5 percent to 9.32
trillion rupees this year, even as a 19 percent slide in the
benchmark Sensitive Index of shares in 2011 forces him to delay
sale of assets.  “There’s a serious threat to the government’s deficit
target on expected higher spending on subsidies and lower
revenue from disinvestment,” said  Indranil Pan , chief economist
at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. Bond yields may touch 8.7
percent in the year and the budget shortfall may widen to as
much as 5.4 percent of GDP, he predicted.  India has raised just 3 percent of a targeted 400 billion
rupees from selling stakes in state-run companies, with plans
for Oil & Natural Gas Corp., Steel Authority of India Ltd. and
Hindustan Copper Ltd. stalling.  The central bank on July 26 said that the government needs
to focus on the quality of its expenditure to gain control over
inflation. “Fiscal consolidation is, therefore, critical to
managing inflation,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  