-- 
Indian Rupee Has Worst Quarter Since 2008 on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-29T12:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/india-s-rupee-falls-most-in-a-week-as-europe-spurs-fund-outflows.html
India ’s rupee completed the biggest
quarterly drop since 2008 on concern investors will sell
emerging-market assets as  Europe ’s policy makers struggle to
stem the region’s debt crisis.  The currency dropped the most in a week today as exchange
data showed global funds pulled a total $5.6 billion this month
from the stock markets of India,  Indonesia ,  South Korea , Taiwan
and Thailand. India’s currency and bond markets will remain shut
tomorrow as local banks close accounts at the end of the first
half of the financial year. Global investors anticipate Europe’s
crisis leading to an economic slump, financial meltdown and
social unrest in the next year, a Bloomberg survey found.  “Till more clarity emerges from the euro zone, we will see
bouts of  risk aversion  where currencies like the rupee are sold
off,” said J. Moses Harding, Mumbai-based executive vice
president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. “What we are seeing is a
classic case of ‘buy the rumor, sell the fact’.”  The rupee weakened 8.8 percent this quarter to 48.9725 at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, the biggest drop since the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.5 percent today, the most
since Sept. 22.  India’s food inflation accelerated for the first time in
four weeks, a government report showed. An index measuring
wholesale prices of agricultural products gained 9.13 percent in
the week ended Sept. 17 from a year earlier, the commerce
ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi . It rose 8.84 percent
the previous week.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 49.68 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.43 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  