-- 
Food Inflation Accelerates, Maintaining Pressure on Indian Interest Rates

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-09-29T06:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/india-s-food-inflation-accelerates-maintaining-pressure-on-interest-rates.html
India ’s food inflation accelerated
for the first time in four weeks, maintaining pressure on the
central bank to raise borrowing costs to tame price gains.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 9.13 percent in the week ended Sept. 17 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New
Delhi today. It rose 8.84 percent the previous week.  The rate of inflation in the world’s second-most populous
nation remains above the level the central bank deems
acceptable and has been “fairly stubborn,” Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said this week as he weighs the risks to expansion
posed by a faltering global recovery against price pressures.
The  Reserve Bank of India  extended its record series of rate
increases on Sept. 16 to curb the fastest inflation among the
so-called BRICS economies.  “Inflation is still at elevated levels and that remains a
concern for the central bank,”  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report.
She expects the  Reserve Bank  to boost its repurchase rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 8.5 percent in October.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 rose 1
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.35 percent as of
12:15 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
declined 0.2 percent, and the rupee weakened 0.3 percent
against the  U.S. dollar . The currency has dropped 8.6 percent
this quarter, the most in  Asia  after the South Korean won.  ‘Grave Concern’  Accelerating food prices are a “matter of serious and
grave concern,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said today.
Pushing growth in India to above 9 percent may cause high
inflation and officials should use monetary policy to bring
down demand, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in New Delhi today.  Policy makers boosted India’s repurchase rate for the
sixth time this year on Sept. 16, increasing benchmark
borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25
percent. Indian wholesale prices rose 9.78 percent in August
from a year earlier.  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said last week the central
bank is close to the end of its cycle of rate increases as
inflation will probably slow next year. Production of grains
sowed during the June to September rainy season may climb 3
percent from a year earlier to 123.9 million metric tons, the
Farm Ministry said on Sept. 14.  Onion prices rose 17 percent in the week ended Sept. 17
from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Potato costs
increased 15 percent while prices of vegetables climbed 12
percent, according to the report.  Inflation may accelerate after Indian Oil Corp., the
country’s biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices on Sept. 16
for the second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels
below cost are increasing following the rupee’s drop, Indian
Oil Finance Director P.K. Goyal said Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 