-- 
India Rallies 30 Nations Against EU Airline Emission Levy

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-09-29T07:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/india-rallies-30-nations-against-eu-airline-emission-levy-2-.html
India  is working with more than 30
nations to draw up a strategy to counter the European Union’s
plan to impose emission charges on airlines flying into the
region starting next year.  “How can they dictate terms to us and why should we accept
it?” Vayalar Ravi, India’s civil aviation minister, said in an
interview in  New Delhi  yesterday before a meeting of the
 International Civil Aviation Organization  on the EU’s plan.
“This is their fantasy.”  Measures by the 27-nation bloc to impose carbon curbs on
flights to and from the region have sparked protests from
 China ’s airline association and carriers including  American
Airlines  and Continental Airlines. The EU plans “contravene”
international law and “is an attack on sovereignty,” the
 International Air Transport Association  said this week.  More than 30 members of the  International Civil Aviation
Organization  started their meeting on the EU’s emission trading
system in India’s capital today. The Montreal-based ICAO has 190
member states, including the U.S. and China, according to its
website. India’s aviation ministry is hosting the two-day
meeting, Ravi said, without naming the countries that are
participating.  ‘Tit-for-Tat Taxes’  “By making the scheme applicable to non-EU airlines, there
is a feeling that the European Union is overstepping its
authority,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director at
industry adviser CAPA Centre for Aviation. “Retaliation could
take the form of tit-for-tat taxes, restrictions on traffic
rights for European carriers and could even impact European
aircraft manufacturers.”  The EU decided in 2008 that aviation should become a part
of its cap-and-trade carbon program after airline discharges in
 Europe  doubled over two decades. Emissions from international
aviation now account for 2 percent to 3 percent of global
greenhouse gas discharges, according to the EU.  “The EU stands firm and, at the same time, willing to
discuss with our partners the possibility of having equivalent
measures,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, the EU spokesman for Climate
Action Commissioner, said in an e-mail today. “This is not a
tax, it is a pollution ceiling. If you emit less than the
ceiling, you will not need to pay.”  Transatlantic Flight  Starting in January 2012, airlines flying into the EU will
have to buy carbon permits if they exceed the emission norms set
by the bloc. The costs of meeting emissions targets may raise
airline fares for a transatlantic flight by between two euros
($2.72) and 12 euros, according to Jos Delbeke, the European
Commission director-general for climate.  Air India Ltd., Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the three carriers flying to Europe from India,
posted losses in the year ended March 31 as they battled high
fuel costs that account for about 40 percent of an airline’s
operational expenses.  Airlines will be joining Europe’s power stations and
factories in the region’s emissions-trading system that now
covers more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers. Under the
legislation, 85 percent of the emission allowances making up the
airline-industry cap would be allocated for free, and the
balance would be auctioned in 2012.  The European Commission set the benchmarks this week to
calculate the distribution of free carbon-dioxide permits among
international airlines from next year. The regulator set a level
of 0.6422 carbon allowances per 1,000 ton-kilometers for the
eight years through 2020. Airlines will receive 0.6797 carbon
allowances per 1,000 ton-kilometers in 2012.  $4.9 Billion Profit  The EU’s carbon curbs will add $1.2 billion of costs to
airlines in 2012, IATA’s Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said
in a Sept. 27  statement  on the group’s website. Carriers are
forecast to make a combined profit of $4.9 billion next year,
according to IATA.  The China Air Transport Association said in June the EU’s
plan is “unreasonable and illegal.” The nation’s big three
state-controlled carriers are members of the group.  “The permit is a penalty on all foreign carriers going to
Europe,” Minister Ravi said. “The aviation industry is growing
in our country, and we can’t be penalized for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  