-- 
IPOs Shelved at Record Pace as Offer Pipeline Balloons

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-09-29T14:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ipos-shelved-at-record-pace-globally-as-pipeline-for-offerings-balloons.html
Companies canceled or postponed
$8.9 billion in initial public offerings in the third quarter as
stocks plunged, putting the market on pace to set a record for
pulled deals.  The value of withdrawn and delayed IPOs so far this year
rose to $34 billion, approaching the $40 billion pulled in 2010,
the most since Bloomberg began compiling data.  Siemens AG (SIE) 
suspended an IPO of its Osram lighting unit, while U.S. defense
equipment maker ADS Tactical Inc. and Shanghai-based Xiao Nan
Guo Restaurants Holdings Ltd. abandoned offerings.  The pace of IPOs slowed as equity markets fell to the
lowest level in more than a year and stock volatility surged in
August to the highest since 2009. In the U.S., delays helped
create the biggest backlog of IPOs since at least 2006, with 154
deals as of Sept. 20, according to Ipreo Holdings LLC.  “Issuers have learned to be more patient while looking for
the right windows,” said Tim Harvey-Samuel, Citigroup Inc.’s
London-based head of equity capital markets for Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa . “A number of transactions may slip into
2012.”  Companies completed IPOs valued at $30 billion from the
start of July through yesterday, less than half the amount in
the previous quarter, according to Bloomberg data. That means
funds generated from IPOs this quarter will be the least in more
than two years.  Trading Declines  While Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. and Zillow Inc. completed
IPOs during the quarter and have since climbed at least 40
percent, more than half of global IPOs this year are trading
below their offer prices, Bloomberg data show.  “There’s no question that what has happened to the class
of 2011 has impacted sentiment toward investing in IPOs,” said
Mark Hantho, New York-based global co-head of  equity capital
markets  at Deutsche Bank AG. “While there is some reluctance, I
think it will recede fairly quickly, and with the right
valuations on the table, people will start to play again.”  There were 366 companies planning IPOs around the world as
of Sept. 20, almost double the number on file after the MSCI
World Index reached a 13-year low in 2009, according to New
York-based Ipreo, a capital markets data and analysis firm.  Groupon Inc., the biggest daily-deal website, delayed
marketing its planned $750 million U.S. IPO to investors amid
stock-market swings and may complete it by year-end, people
familiar with the matter said this month. Zynga Inc., the online
game developer, announced plans in July for a $1 billion IPO and
has yet to set a date for completion.  Volatility Surge  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the VIX, surged as high as 48 on Aug. 8, more than double its
average level of 18 during the first two quarters of this year.  The intensifying European debt crisis and a U.S. credit
downgrade from  Standard & Poor’s  pushed the MSCI World Index
this month to the lowest since last August.  “Because stocks have been marked down by a fair number of
selloffs lately, the valuations at which investors are willing
to accept new issues have come down,” said Dan Cummings, head
of global equity capital markets at Bank of America Corp.
“Sellers who want to go ahead with their offerings will be
faced with the potential trade-off of a more modest valuation or
a smaller-sized deal.”  Offerings in Asia provided some relief, accounting for half
of funds raised globally, Bloomberg data show. Sun Art Retail
Group Ltd.,  China ’s largest hypermarket operator, raised HK$9.5
billion ($1.2 billion) in its July IPO in  Hong Kong , and the
shares gained 17 percent through yesterday.  Hong Kong Leadership  Appetite for new shares in  Asia  got a boost from  China’s
economy , projected to grow twice as fast as the world as a whole
in 2012, said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX
Schuster LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion.  “There needs to be a market which takes leadership
globally, and I think it’s going to be Hong Kong,” Schuster
said. “If deals there go well, that will lend more confidence
to the upcoming U.S. IPOs.”  As of yesterday, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley led underwriting of global IPOs so far this year with
6.3 percent market share each, according to Bloomberg data.
Deutsche Bank was third with 6.1 percent. Globally, the largest
IPO this quarter was Bankia SA, which raised 3.1 billion euros
($4.2 billion) in a July offering in  Madrid .  In western  Europe , at least 24 new stock sales were
postponed or canceled this year, almost twice as many as a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday, the
Spanish government pulled the IPO for state-owned lottery
operator Sociedad Estatal Loterias & Apuestas del Estado SA,
citing market conditions.  Europe Stalls  While the volume of IPOs completed in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa this year has risen to $37 billion from $25
billion a year ago, deals stalled in August as the global
economic recovery deteriorated and concern grew that Europe’s
banks may need more capital.  “IPO activities have fallen due to macro uncertainties in
Europe and concerns over global economic growth,” said Maria Pinelli, London-based global vice chairman at Ernst & Young LLP
who oversees the firm’s IPO advisory business. “We still see a
record pipeline volume, but many companies have chosen to wait
for a better environment.”  Still, a need for funds has pushed some to brave global
uncertainty. Bankia and fellow Spanish lender Banca Civica
fetched about $5 billion together through IPOs in July after
their country’s government pushed them to shore up capital.  Bring It  The rest are staying put. While the growing pipeline means
plenty of companies are ready to move forward with their IPOs
once investor demand recovers, global IPOs may raise $150
billion in 2011, 36 percent less than last year, said
 Renaissance Capital LLC . U.S. offerings may fail to exceed the
$39 billion fetched last year, according to the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based IPO research and investment firm.  “There’s a huge backlog of companies that want to go
public,” said Timothy Cunningham, who helps oversee about $71
billion at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico . “The problem is that the companies want a different
valuation than where the demand is. I don’t think anyone’s
willing to bring it at these levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net . 