-- 
Ireland Eyes Payback for Averting Europe’s Lehman: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ireland-weighs-payback-for-averting-bank-defaults.html
In Ireland’s  Finance Ministry ,
officials are engineering a maneuver that may make the
difference between default and financial survival.  The impetus for the plan is the cost of bailing out Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. and Irish  Nationwide Building Society . The
nation paid an initial 31 billion euros ($42.2 billion) to save
the two lenders, averting what Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  called a “European Lehmans” in a nod to the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  To cut the final bill of at least 48 billion euros,
including interest, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  may seek to
exploit the euro region’s debt crisis by tapping the area’s
expanding rescue fund. That would deliver money at lower
 interest rates  and over a longer period than selling bonds,
reducing what Noonan has called the “extraordinarily expensive”
tab as the state seeks to win back economic sovereignty.  “Ireland is really on the fringe between debt
sustainability and unsustainability,” said  Dermot O’Leary ,
chief economist at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . “The
cost of funding this every year could play a big part in the
difference, ultimately, between the two scenarios.”  Ireland’s 10-year borrowing cost dropped below 8 percent on
Sept. 28 for the first time this year, and is currently about
7.76 percent, down from a high of 14.22 percent on July 18.
The cost of insuring against the nation defaulting for five
years has dropped to 718 basis points from 804 during the past
two months, according to CMA prices. That still implies a 46
percent probability of Ireland failing to meet its obligations.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 7 it expects
Ireland’s general government debt to peak at 118 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013, equivalent to almost 200 billion
euros. That’s up from 25 percent of GDP in 2007.  Ireland was last year forced to seek 67.5 billion euros of
aid, after its banking woes became too big to handle alone. On
Sept. 30, 2008, the then government guaranteed most of the debts
of its biggest banks, with the state agreeing to inject about 62
billion euros into the financial system to date.  The government must “use all our persuasiveness powers and
ingenuity to get the burden of the debt down,” Noonan said in
an interview aired by Dublin-based  RTE  Radio on Sept. 26, adding
that he’s seeking to cut billions of euros off the overall cost
of bailing out Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide.  Promissory Notes  As the bill for the two banks soared last year, then
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  decided to hold off injecting all
the 31 billion euros into the two banks straight away. Instead,
he promised to give them the cash over 10 years, by issuing
promissory notes -- essentially IOUs -- to the lenders for the
full amount.  That tactic avoided Ireland having to raise the money in
one effort as its own borrowing costs surged. The banks in turn
used the notes as collateral to borrow funds from the Irish
central bank.  After being rebuffed by the  European Central Bank  on a plan
to impose losses on senior bond holders in the two lenders,
Noonan said he’s turning his attention to an “alternative piece
of financial engineering to the promissory note arrangement.”  “Rescuing Anglo helped maintain stability across the
European banking system, but has put a heavy burden on the Irish
state,” said Alan Ahearne, an adviser to Lenihan who oversaw the
promissory note arrangement and negotiated the bailout accord.
“Any arrangements to ease that burden would help Ireland to
stay ahead of its program targets.”  Penal Rates  The government pays an annual 8 percent to the banks on the
notes, a rate Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  described this week as
“penal.”  The Finance Ministry a day later put the cost at 17
billion euros over 20 years.  “The goal is to reduce this interest charge,” said
O’Leary at Goodbody. “This could potentially be done by
agreeing an additional long-term loan from the EU with a lower
interest rate.”  In addition, the state has to pay interest on the borrowing
to fund the bailout. For every 3.1 billion euros, that amounts
to 115 million euros per annum, the Ministry said, based on the
rate Ireland’s partners are charging for its rescue fund.  On July 21, European leaders empowered the euro zone’s 440-
billion euro ($633 billion) rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, to aid troubled banks by lending to
governments to inject into lenders.  Cutting Costs  By taking a loan from the fund, Ireland could pay off the
promissory notes, saving 17 billion euros instantly. More
savings would flow, assuming the state could borrow at a lower
rate from the European fund than investors would charge to make
good on its capital pledge to the banks.  “The proposal will in effect raise the amount of
borrowings from the EU/IMF by 30 billion euros which would be
repayable at competitive rates most likely beginning in fifteen
years,” said  Jim Ryan , an analyst at Dublin-based Glas
Securities, in a note. “From the government’s perspective, it
delivers additional funding and ensures the funding burden for
the state is probably manageable until 2016, without introducing
private sector involvement.”  Noonan’s willingness to spare senior bank bondholders, in
recognition that his plans risked worsening a funding crisis for
banks across  Europe , may win him support for tapping the EFSF,
according to O’Leary.  “There is an argument that Ireland has taken one for the
team in bailing out Anglo,” said O’Leary. “The country’s
taxpayers are the fall guys as the bank’s senior creditors are
spared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  