-- 
Italy’s Anthrax Outbreak Widens as Disease Hits Six More Farms

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-29T15:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/italy-s-anthrax-outbreak-widens-as-disease-hits-six-more-farms.html
Italy’s anthrax outbreak widened
as the deadly animal disease spread to six more farms in the
country’s south, bringing the total affected livestock holdings
to 19 since the first confirmed cases almost four weeks ago.  The illness killed livestock in three towns southeast of
Naples with previous cases as well as in a village about 40
kilometers (25 miles) east of the first outbreaks, the Italian
Ministry of Health said in an  alert  today published online by
the Paris-based World Organization of Animal Health, or OIE.  Anthrax , which has been used as a biological weapon, is
caused by spores of the bacterium Bacillus anthracis and can
survive in soil years after an outbreak, according to the OIE.
Livestock typically become infected by ingesting spores from
the soil or in feed, according to the group.  The disease killed cattle and sheep on three farms in
Montesano sulla Marcellana, as well as livestock in Accettura
and Corleto Perticara, adding to previously reported cases.
Italy also found anthrax in Cirigliano, the first case there,
according to the alert to the OIE.  The outbreak is continuing, and measures to fight the
disease include movement controls for livestock and
disinfection of infected premises, the  animal-health  group
said. Animals are not being vaccinated, the OIE said.  French microbiologist Louis Pasteur developed an effective
vaccine against the disease in 1881, according to the OIE.
Proper disposal of dead animals is critical, and carcasses
should not be opened because exposure to oxygen will allow
anthrax bacteria to form spores, according to the OIE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 