-- 
Japan’s Retail Sales Drop as Global Slowdown Weighs on Recovery From Quake

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 
2011-09-29T01:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/japan-s-retail-sales-drop-slump-for-a-second-month-on-tax-increase-concern.html
Japan ’s retail sales slumped for a
second month in August as demand for appliances and autos fell,
a sign that consumers’ concern about looming tax increases may
be weighing on spending.  Sales slid 1.7 percent from a month earlier, the trade
ministry said in  Tokyo  today, the steepest decline since March.
The median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 0.2 percent increase. Sales decreased 2.6 percent
from a year earlier.  A deterioration in consumer spending may weigh on the
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy from the March 11
earthquake as such outlays make up more than half of gross
domestic product. With consumers unable to boost demand, the
export-led recovery is vulnerable to a global slowdown spurred
by the European debt crisis and a weakening U.S. economy.  “ Consumer spending  was recovering after the quake, but
that rebound is pretty much over,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , a
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
“Spending may begin to be a drag on the economy in the long
term as households refrain from spending in anticipation of
higher taxes."　  The yen traded at 76.52 per dollar as of 10:31 a.m. in
Tokyo.  Fast Retailing Co.,  Asia ’s biggest apparel chain, said this
month same-store sales at its Uniqlo casual clothing stores in
Japan fell 9.4 percent in August from a year ago as cooler
temperatures led to sluggish sales of summer clothing.  Tax Increases  Japan plans total spending of 19 trillion yen ($247
billion) over five years for reconstruction after the magnitude-
9 temblor and tsunami that devastated the northeast coast. The
nation’s ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan this week proposed a
9.2 trillion yen temporary tax increase and selling of state
assets to pay for rebuilding.  Household sentiment has also been waning, with the nation’s
economy watchers survey showing confidence among merchants and
others who deal with consumers slipping to 47.3 in August, the
first drop since March.  Sales of autos and transactions in department stores were
among categories that dragged down August’s figures, today’s
report showed. Sales of machinery and appliances fell 19.3
percent while those for autos dropped 18.8 percent, the report
showed.  Vehicle sales in Japan may drop 14 percent this year after
the march disaster cut production and demand, the Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association said on Sept. 27. A
separate government report tomorrow is forecast to show that
household spending fell for an 11th month in August.  Still, some retailers are predicting a rebound in sales.
Seven & I Holdings Co., Japan’s largest retailer, earlier this
month raised its net income projection 15 percent to 121 billion
yen, citing higher demand as the nation recovers after the March
quake and nuclear disaster.  Economic Rebound  The nation’s economy shrank for a third straight quarter
through June. It’s expected to grow at a 4.6 percent annual pace
in the three months through September, according to the average
forecast of 42 economists surveyed by Japan’s government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association.  The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its forecast
for global growth to 4 percent for 2011 from a June estimate of
4.3 percent, and said ‘‘downside risks are growing” as  Europe ’s
debt crisis widens.  Japan’s recovery is “completely dependent on overseas,”
said Jin Kenzaki, vice president of economics at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. in Tokyo. “Although public investment and
housing demand is set to increase, those are just making up for
what was lost. Fundamentally, the economy has not turned around
at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  