-- 
Jazztel CEO Says Spanish Broadband Market Drop ‘Worrisome’

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-09-29T19:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/jazztel-ceo-garcia-says-spanish-broadband-market-shrinkage-is-worrisome-.html
Jazztel Plc (JAZ) , the Spanish phone
company whose shares have outperformed  Telefonica SA (TEF)  this year,
said the development for the Spanish broadband market is
“worrisome” following the country’s first ever monthly drop in
fast-Internet connections.  “The macroeconomic situation has clearly destroyed the
market significantly even as the country still has low
penetration and can grow,” Chief Executive Officer Jose Miguel Garcia said in an interview in  Madrid  today at the sidelines of
the company’s presentation of its Jazzbox television service.
“Lots of immigrants are returning to their homes and many
youngsters are going back to their mum’s house.”  Jazztel shares, which earlier today had gained as much as
4.3 percent in Madrid trading, dropped as much as 1.6 percent to
3.57 euros following Gracia’s comments. The stock closed at 3.62
euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading. It has risen 2 percent
this year while Telefonica dropped 15 percent.  Jazztel is luring clients with lower broadband prices to
gain market share from rivals including Telefonica, the
country’s former phone monopoly, and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  as some
Spanish consumers cut back spending.  Spain ’s unemployment rate,
the highest in the European Union at 21 percent, and government
austerity measures are taking its toll on  consumer spending 
throughout the country.  ‘Limited Impact’  “The market slowdown has had a very limited impact in
Jazztel’s growth, as most of the company’s new customers come
from churners from other operators,” the CEO said in an e-
mailed statement to Bloomberg later today. “Despite this
slowdown in the market, which we consider as temporary, the
market’s growth potential remains intact due to its lower
penetration compared to other European markets and Jazztel’s
current growth continues to be very positive.”  Jazztel, founded in 1998, has reached more than 1 million
customers for asymmetric digital subscriber lines, or ADSL, and
aims to win more than 50,000 clients during the third quarter,
it reiterated today. Jazztel is facing increasing competition
from bigger rivals including Telefonica, which cut its ADSL
offering to 24.90 euros a month in September from 40.90 euros.  “There have been other offers in the market as competitive
or even more before,” Garcia said. “We can still be
competitive keeping growth rates. Customers come to us because
of our price and service quality.”  First Decline  The number of registered broadband lines in Spain dropped
by 580 in July from the previous month, according to the
country’s regulator. That’s the first decline since the
watchdog, known as CMT, started tracking data in 2004. The
decline in broadband lines is “worrisome,” Garcia said today.  “The economic crisis has definitely a negative impact for
Jazztel,” Stephane Beyazian, a London-based analyst at  Raymond
James , said by phone today. “The market is more difficult now
and we may see fewer customers” going forward, he said, adding
that companies may try to offset the market pressure with
promotions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  