-- 
Initial Jobless Claims in U.S. Decline on Seasonal Adjustment Difficulties

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-29T12:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/jobless-claims-in-u-s-drop-on-seasonal-adjustment-difficulties.html
Claims for U.S. unemployment
benefits fell more than forecast last week as an atypical
calendar alignment made it more difficult for the government to
adjust the data for seasonal changes.  Applications for jobless benefits dropped by 37,000 in the
week ended Sept. 24 to 391,000, the fewest since April, Labor
Department figures showed today. Economists forecast 420,000
claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. An agency official said the data probably reflected a
“slight mistiming” in the seasonal factors used to modify the
figures.  The pace of firings has remained little changed this year
while companies are reluctant to hire at a time when the economy
is slowing and concerns of a European default rise. Federal
Reserve policy makers last week announced more unconventional
measures to boost jobs and the economy.  “Apart from what might be an anomaly, the underlying trend
in the  labor force  is still disappointing,” said Sean
Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York. “There
is a lot of economic uncertainty weighing on the broader
economy.”  The  U.S. economy  grew  at a revised 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter, faster than estimated last month and helped by
exports and spending on services, a report from the Commerce
Department showed today. The rise in gross domestic product
compares with a 1 percent gain previously calculated, and
followed a 0.4 percent increase in the first three months of the
year.  Shares Climb  Stock-index futures extended earlier gains after the
report. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
in December rose 1.5 percent to 1,165.9 at 8:51 a.m. in  New
York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 2.02 percent from 1.98 percent late
yesterday.  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 410,000 to
430,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. The Labor
Department initially reported the prior week’s applications at
423,000.  A 53-week calendar year, a late Easter and the end of a
quarter have played havoc with the government’s ability to
adjust the data for seasonal variations, the Labor Depart
official said as the figures were released. “It’s been a real
challenge this year” to adjust the data, he said.  Seasonal Adjustments  The figures used to adjust the data typically look for a
drop in un-adjusted claims heading into the end of a quarter.
For last week however, the seasonal adjustment factors predicted
unadjusted claims would rise by 0.4 percent, the Labor official
said. Instead, unadjusted applications followed the typical
patterns at the end of quarters and plunged by 8.2 percent,
leading to the even bigger drop in the adjusted data.  The economy probably created more jobs in the year ended
March 2011 than currently estimated, a separate Labor Department
report showed today.  The number of jobs added to payrolls will probably be
increased by 192,000 from the current estimate of 1.32 million,
the agency said on its Web site in preliminary projections. The
Labor Department uses records from state jobless benefit taxes
to benchmark its employment survey estimates.  The four-week moving average of claims, a less-volatile
measure, fell to 417,000 from 422,250.  Continuing Claims  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
dropped by 20,000 in the week ended Sept. 17 to 3.73 million.
The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
workers receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
75,550 to 3.58 million in the week ended Sept. 10.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 3 percent in the
week ended Sept. 17, today’s report showed. Forty-two states and
territories reported an increase in claims during that week,
while 11 showed a decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Fed policy makers last week announced they would replace
some notes in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to
further reduce borrowing costs and keep the economy from
relapsing into a recession.  FOMC View  “Economic growth remains slow,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in a statement. While officials said they
“expect some pickup in the pace of recovery over coming
quarters,” they anticipate “the unemployment rate will decline
only gradually toward levels” consistent with their mandate for
maximum employment.  President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs plan would help
avoid a return to recession by maintaining growth and pushing
down the unemployment rate next year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The legislation, submitted to Congress this month, would
increase gross domestic product by 0.6 percentage point next
year and add or keep 275,000 workers on payrolls, the median
estimates in the survey of economists showed. The program would
also lower the jobless rate by 0.2 percentage point in 2012,
economists said.  Payroll Forecast  The economy generated 56,000 net payrolls in September
while the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 9.1 percent,
according to the median forecast in a preliminary Bloomberg
survey of economists ahead of the Labor Department’s Oct. 7
report.  Total payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.  Some companies are still trimming staff.  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky helicopter unit plans to cut about
540 jobs, 3 percent of its global workforce, as orders slow from
international customers and the U.S. curbs defense spending.  Employees in Poland and  Connecticut  have been informed of
the decision, Paul Jackson, a spokesman, said last week. Union
members in Connecticut have been offered a voluntary separation
package, Jackson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  