-- 
Kalbe Farma Creates M&A Team to Target Health-Care Acquisitions in Asia

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-09-30T09:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/kalbe-farma-creates-m-a-team-to-find-acquisition-targets-in-asia.html
PT Kalbe Farma,  Southeast Asia ’s
largest drugmaker, created a three-person team to help it find
acquisitions in the region, including producers of consumer
health-care products, Chief Financial Officer Vidjongtius said.  The strategic investment team was formed last quarter to
identify targets costing $10 million to $50 million, Vidjongtius
said in a telephone interview from Jakarta yesterday. Kalbe,
which makes prescription drugs and nutrition supplements, hired
a former Unilever executive to oversee the task, he said.  Kalbe has about $150 million in cash and could use treasury
stock to boost funding if necessary, Vidjongtius said. It wants
to buy businesses that sell over-the-counter products and herbal
remedies. That would broaden Kalbe’s product range, mitigating
the threat of competition, said Andy Ferdinand, who tracks the
drugmaker for PT Batavia Prosperindo Sekuritas in Jakarta.  “They are playing on volume,” Ferdinand said in a
telephone interview. “It’s difficult for pharma companies to
increase prices in  Indonesia  because of industry competition.”  Kalbe decreased 0.8 percent to 3,250 rupiah at the 5 p.m.
close of trading on the Indonesian Stock Exchange in Jakarta.
The shares are unchanged from their Jan. 1 level, while the
benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has declined 4.2 percent this
year.  Southeast Asian companies have made at least $211 million
of acquisitions in pharmaceuticals over the past five years,
with the biggest being Kalbe’s $48 million purchase of
Indonesian drug distributor PT Enseval Putera Megatrading,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $4 Billion Market  Kalbe gets 95 percent of its revenue from Indonesia, where
it has 13 percent of the market for prescription and over-the-
counter medicines, Vidjontius said. It’s one of about 200
companies -- including 30 multinationals -- competing for $4
billion of sales, he said.  A universal insurance program slated to go national in 2014
may bolster pharmaceutical sales in Indonesia and increase
health-care spending to 5 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product from about 2.5 percent now, Vidjontius said.  Still, Kalbe is seeking a broader geographic base and is
selling in eight other Asian markets as well as  Nigeria  and
 South Africa .  The objective is to “create a bigger Kalbe,” Vidjongtius
said, adding that the  Philippines  and  Singapore  have been
identified as growth areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  