-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for September (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-29T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-september-text-.html
Following is the text from the
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Survey of Tenth District Manufacturing  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity edged higher in
September. Expectations moderated slightly, but producers on net
still anticipated increased activity over the next six months.
Price indexes moved up modestly, with slightly more producers
planning to raise selling prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 6 in September, up from
3 in August and 3 in July. The composite index is an average of
the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time,
and raw materials inventory indexes. The increase was mainly
concentrated in durable goods plants, particularly for aircraft
and computer equipment, while nondurable goods producers
reported a continued slowing in activity. Most other month-over-
month indexes also improved modestly in September. The
production index rose from -2 to 3, and the shipments, new
orders, and order backlog indexes also edged up. The employment
index increased for the second straight month, but the new
orders for exports index fell slightly after rising last month.
Both inventory indexes increased somewhat.  Year-over-year factory indexes were mixed, but remained at
generally solid levels. The composite year-over-year index fell
further from 21 to 15, while the production index remained
unchanged. The shipments, order backlog, and new orders for
exports indexes all rose slightly, and the capital expenditures
index increased to its highest level in nearly a year. In
contrast, the new orders index moved lower from 22 to 18, and
the employment index also edged down. Both inventory indexes
decreased after rising in August.  Most future factory indexes eased further in September, but
producers on net still expected factory activity to rise heading
forward. The future composite index edged down from 9 to 6, and
the future shipments and new order indexes also fell but
remained in positive territory. The future capital expenditures
index dropped from 18 to 5, and the future employment index also
eased. However, the future production index was unchanged, and
the future order backlog index inched higher. The future
finished goods inventory index rose slightly from -6 to -5,
while the future raw materials inventory index fell further.  Price indexes increased slightly after generally easing in
recent months. The month-over-month raw materials price index
edged up from 28 to 30, and the finished goods price index also
increased. The year-over-year finished goods and raw materials
price indexes both moved higher. The future raw materials price
index inched upward from 77 to 78, and the future finished goods
price index increased after falling for two straight months,
indicating slightly more firms plan to pass recent cost
increases through to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  