-- 
Kenyan Inflation Accelerates for 11th Consecutive Month

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-29T14:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/kenya-s-annual-inflation-rises-to-17-3-from-year-ago.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated for
the 11th consecutive month in September as the shilling fell to
a record low, bringing further pressure to bear on the central
bank to raise interest rates.  The inflation rate climbed to 17.3 percent, from 16.7
percent in August, the  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics  said
in an e-mailed statement today. Prices rose 1 percent in the
month, the Nairobi-based agency said.  “The  exchange rate  has deteriorated, the Treasury costs
have gone up, the short rains haven’t begun; all this feeds into
inflation,” Ben Nyamweya, an independent financial analyst,
said by phone from Nairobi today. “I don’t think it would be
prudent for the central bank to hold the rate.”  The central bank is under pressure to increase its key
lending rate after inflation exceeded the government’s 5 percent
target in January and has risen every month since, driven up by
higher food and fuel costs.  The price of food led by rises in sugar, beef and milk
advanced 24.4 percent in September, while transport costs
including oil surged 24.8 percent, the statistics agency said.  The monetary policy committee, chaired by central bank
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, surprised the markets by keeping the
benchmark  interest rate  on hold in July, following two
increases, in a bid to sustain the country’s economic recovery.
It then raised the rate by 0.75 percentage points on Sept. 14 to
7 percent as the shilling weakened and consumer prices soared.  Shilling Weakens  The shilling is the world’s second worst-performing
currency this year after losing 19 percent of its value to trade
at a record low of 104.2 per dollar on Sept. 27. A weaker
shilling has made imports including oil more expensive.  The worst regional drought in 60 years has trimmed crop
yields and left 3.75 million Kenyans in need of food aid,
according to the  United Nations .  Government borrowing costs have risen. The yield on the 91-
day Treasury bills climbed to 13.741 percent today, the highest
in more than 10 years, adding 55 basis points since the previous
sale on Sept. 22, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  