-- 
Kenya Plans ‘Comprehensive’ Steps on Shilling; MPC to Meet

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-29T13:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/kenya-plans-comprehensive-steps-on-shilling-mpc-to-meet-1-.html
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga 
formed a team to come up with “comprehensive measures” to help
stabilize the shilling as the central bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee said it would hold its second meeting in three weeks.  Government officials and industry leaders will devise ways
to steady the currency and recommendations will be made next
week, Odinga said in an e-mailed statement today from Nairobi.
The MPC, which raised interest rates by 0.75 percentage point to
7 percent after an emergency session on Sept. 14, will meet
again on Oct. 5, according to the central bank’s website.  “It’s turbulent times now and what they should do in this
meeting is bring market players and central bankers together,”
Fred Moturi, a fixed-income trader at Sterling Capital Ltd.,
said in a phone interview from Nairobi. “If their goal is to
stabilize the shilling and inflation, the most likely scenario
is that interest rates will rise.”  The shilling weakened 19 percent against the dollar since
January and ranks as the world’s second-worst performing
currency, after neighboring  Uganda ’s. The currency fell as
inflation soared to 16.7 percent in August, more than triple the
government’s target, after the worst regional drought in 60
years cut agricultural production. The government aims to keep
inflation at 5 percent.  Finance Minister  Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  may consider
invoking a law that enables him to impose a Cabinet-determined
monetary policy direction on the central bank to help defend the
shilling, DaMina Advisors LLP said yesterday. Kenyan President
Mwai Kibaki may also choose to use another provision of the
Central Bank Act to suspend Ndung’u, 52, for as long as six
months for a tribunal to review his “competence and abilities,”
the New York-based risk adviser said.  Kenyatta, 49, has been at the Hague-based  International
Criminal Court  since last week for a pre-trial hearing to
confirm charges of crimes against humanity during violence after
a disputed 2007 presidential election. The public hearing is
scheduled to end by Oct. 5. Kenyatta says he’s innocent of the
charges.  Kenyan law requires the Monetary Policy Committee meets at
least every two months. At its previous meeting in mid-
September, the MPC, as the committee is known, reiterated its
policy to contain inflationary pressures and announced the
biggest increase to the key lending rate since it was introduced
in June 2006.  Record Low  Uncertainty in Kenya’s financial markets began when the
central bank defied analysts’ expectations and cut the benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 5.75 percent in January, even
as economists forecast that inflation would soar.  Central Bank of  Kenya  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has blamed
the currency’s decline on speculation, the deteriorating global
economy and the country’s increasing demand for imports paid for
in dollars.  The slumping currency has stoked inflation, which is
eroding consumers’ purchasing power, Betty Maina, chief
executive officer of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  She called on the  Finance Ministry  and lawmakers to help
central bank ease volatility in the  currency market  before
investors leave the country for a cheaper place to do business.
“The current situation is hurting growth,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 