-- 
Korea Shipyards’ Skill With LNG Beats China’s Focus on Dry-Bulk: Freight

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-30T07:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/korea-shipyards-lng-skill-beats-china-dry-bulk-focus-freight.html
South Korean shipbuilders’ focus on
the most complicated and expensive vessels has allowed them to
double their share of global orders this year as China’s low-end
strategy fails to pay off.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. and Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s
three largest shipyards, have won 40 percent of orders in 2011
as higher  oil prices  spur demand for liquefied-natural gas
tankers and drill ships. Chinese yards’ 2011 contract tally is
worth about 25 percent of  Korea ’s, based on Clarkson Plc data,
as a glut of commodity ships damps demand in their main market.  “It’s been a good year for Korean shipyards and it’s going
to get even better next year,” said Park Moo Hyun, an analyst
at E*Trade Securities Co. in Seoul. “For Chinese builders, 2012
may be difficult because there is just too much capacity.”  A 19 percent slump in global ship orders this year has
predominately hit Chinese yards, with six of the 10 biggest
failing to win any orders since late June. Korean shipbuilders
have avoided the slowdown as they have largely ceded the dry-
bulk and small container-ship market to low-wage  China  yards.  “It’s now become a race for survival for shipyards in
China,” said Cho In Karp, head of research at Heungkuk
Securities Co. in Seoul. “If they don’t have a source of income
other than traditional shipbuilding, it’s going to be very
difficult to remain in business.”  Drill-Ship Record  Hyundai Heavy, based in Ulsan,  South Korea , has already
exceeded its $12.3 billion sales target for this year, helped by
10 orders for drill ships worth $5.5 billion. That’s the largest
number of deals for such ships the company has won in a single
year, according to Hur Sung Duck, an analyst at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. The vessels are used by  oil companies 
to drill test wells in deep waters.  In June, the shipyard also won the world’s first order to
build two floating storage and re-gasification units from
scratch. The units, which hold LNG and then turn it back into
natural gas, have traditionally been made by converting  oil
tankers .  Hyundai Heavy gained 0.9 percent to close at 281,000 won,
the highest price in a week, in Seoul trading today. Daewoo
Shipbuilding advanced 1.6 percent and Samsung Heavy climbed 1.3
percent.  $100 Billion Spending  Demand for offshore products, including floating oil and
gas production units, may increase as companies develop new
fields. Royal Dutch Shell Plc has said it plans to spend $100
billion in four years through 2014 to maintain output growth.
Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil producer,
said last month it plans to drill more than 1,000 offshore wells
through 2015. The price of oil has risen about 20 percent in the
past two years.  “In an uncertain market, you want to spend on something
you know will earn you money and energy is just that,” said
Richard Park, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Korean shipyards are the ones that will benefit the
most from this.”  In total, Korean yards have won $37.8 billion of orders
this year, compared with $10.3 billion for China, according to
Clarkson. Samsung Heavy has won $14.8 billion of orders, beating
its $11.5 billion target, while Daewoo Shipbuilding has $10
billion, compared with an $11 billion goal.  LNG Carriers  The two Seoul-based shipyards have received contracts for
semi-submersible drilling rigs, floating oil storage and
production units, LNG carriers and drill ships. Daewoo
Shipbuilding has also won orders worth $3.7 billion to build 20
ships able to hold 18,000 containers each from A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S. The vessels will be the largest of their type.  New orders for Chinese shipyards fell 37 percent to 28.07
million deadweight tons in the eight months through August, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement
on its website today. Contracts in August plunged 60 percent,
and about 40 percent of shipbuilders haven’t won orders this
year, it said.  Overall global ship orders fell to the lowest monthly tally
since November 2009 in August, according to Clarkson data, as
the European debt crisis compounded waning demand for vessels.  “There have been concerns that some customers may put off
or cancel plans for new ships because it may be getting more
difficult to get funds,” said Korea Investment’s Park.
“European banks have traditionally been big lenders for
ships.”  Rising Competition  Korean yards may also face more competition from China over
the next few years as they develop better technology, said Arjun Batra, a managing director at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. is already
building a deepwater pipe-laying crane ship, which is due for
delivery this year. It is also developing LNG vessels with
Gaztransport & Technigaz SAS and STX France SA.  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  in June became the
first Chinese shipyard to win an overseas order for ships able
to hold 10,000 containers. Lessor Seaspan Corp. ordered as many
as 25 vessels from the shipyard, while Peter Dohle Schiffahrts-
KG signed a letter of intent for eight more the same month.  The Korean yards now “have the technological skills,
engineering skills, design skills, production skills and
quality,” Batra said. “But the Chinese will catch up.”  Still, challengers to the big three Korean yards will need
time to break their grip on the energy market. Changwon, South
Korea-based STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co., the world’s fourth-
biggest shipbuilder, has won two orders for drill ships from
Noble Corp. in a deal signed in September 2008. It hasn’t got
contracts from anyone else.  “The top-tier yards have a huge advantage because owners
know they will deliver quality goods on time,” said Lee Sokje,
an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in  Seoul . “They will
be able to pick and chose which contracts they want into next
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  