-- 
New York Port Authority Director Said to Resign; Cuomo to Pick Successor

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/n-y-port-authority-head-ward-to-quit-cuomo-to-pick-successor.html
Christopher Ward, executive
director of the  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey ,
intends to resign by the end of October, according to a person
with knowledge of the situation who declined to be identified
before Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office responded.  The move follows months in which Cuomo signaled a lack of
support for Ward and parallels a July announcement from Jay Walder that he was leaving as chairman and chief executive
officer of New York’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , the
largest U.S. transit agency.  Their departures mean New York’s Cuomo must find leadership
to develop transportation policy as regional  population growth ,
aging infrastructure and declining revenue strain both agencies.  Ward’s standing with the governor became clear in May when
Cuomo didn’t take part in a ceremony closing a deal for Conde
Nast Publications Ltd. to rent space in One World Trade, the
1,776-foot-high office building at the  World Trade Center 
replacing the fallen Twin Towers, the person familiar with the
situation said late yesterday.  Two days after the Conde Nast announcement, the New York
Post reported that Cuomo was  “planning to boot”  Ward after the
10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “We have no plans to replace him at this time,” Joshua
Vlasto, Cuomo’s spokesman, said in a June interview in  Albany .
He declined to comment last night. Port Authority spokesman
Steven Coleman didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Ward, a former environmental protection commissioner in New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s administration, took control of
the Port Authority in May 2008 as an appointee of Cuomo’s
predecessor, Governor David Paterson.  Trains, Planes  The Port Authority is overseen by a board appointed by the
governors of New York and New Jersey. In addition to the World
Trade Center, it runs PATH, a commuter rail line connecting New
Jersey with  Manhattan  under the  Hudson River ; five regional
airports including LaGuardia and Kennedy International; the
George Washington Bridge; three spans between Staten Island and
the Garden State; two highway tunnels under the Hudson, and five
marine-shipping facilities including Port Newark.  Removing Ward as construction at the World Trade Center has
begun to progress may impair the authority’s momentum, Robert Yaro, president of the  Regional Plan Association , said in a June
interview.  Yaro, whose civic group has influenced regional
transportation policy since it advocated construction of the
George Washington Bridge in 1932, said Ward had mastered the
“folkways” of his agency “in a way that’s not been done since
Austin Tobin,” who served in the job from 1942 to 1972.  Flat Budget  The Port Authority, whose board raised bridge and tunnel
tolls by 56 percent over five years last month, has about $13.8
billion in outstanding bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In December, it approved a $7.2 billion budget with
no spending increases for the third consecutive year. The plan
included $3.9 billion in capital expenses and reduced the
workforce by 200 positions to 6,777, the lowest level in 40
years.  New York ’s mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  