-- 
N.Z. Building Approvals Surged to 13-Month High in August

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-29T22:12:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/n-z-building-approvals-surged-to-13-month-high-in-august-1-.html
New Zealand  home-building approvals
surged to a 13-month high in August, signaling stronger economic
growth.  Permits jumped 12.5 percent to 1,357 in August from July
when they rose a revised 14.3 percent,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in Wellington today. Excluding apartment permits, which are
volatile, approvals surged 16.9 percent to also reach the
highest since July 2010.  Building approvals accelerated after dropping to a two-year
low in February, when the nation’s deadliest earthquake in eight
decades struck the South Island city of Christchurch. Central
bank Governor Alan Bollard on Sept. 15 said the domestic economy
was growing faster than he had expected, while signaling he may
delay interest-rate increases because global financial turmoil
is exacerbating the risks of a slowdown in the economies of
trading partners.  “Dwelling consent issuance has begun to lift off depressed
levels,”  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs &
Partners New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland, said in a research note
before the report. “We expect further improvement following
recent gains in housing-market turnover.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 77.02 U.S. cents at 10.50 a.m. in Wellington. It fell as
low as 76.52 cents yesterday in  New York  after  Fitch Ratings  cut
New Zealand’s sovereign credit rating one step to AA.  Annual Advance  Approvals rose from the year-earlier period for the first
time since August 2010, the statistics agency said.  Bollard cut the cash rate by half a percentage point to a
record-low 2.5 percent in March to revive confidence after the
February temblor. Twelve of 17 economists estimate he will leave
the cash rate unchanged until next year, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  A magnitude-7 earthquake in Christchurch and surrounding
districts in September last year wrecked homes and roads, before
a temblor measuring 6.3 struck close to the city on Feb. 22,
killing 181 people, stalling spending and setting back business
investment.  Since September, there have been 190 new-home approvals
that were earthquake related, including 145 relocatable units
intended to house displaced residents, the statistics agency
said. Total related consents are about 500, including commercial
buildings and non-building construction such as retaining walls
or swimming pools, the agency said.  In August, there were 57 approvals for new homes identified
as related to the quakes, of which 50 were relocatable units,
the agency said. There were also NZ$12 million ($9 million) of
non-residential consents in the month, it said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  