-- 
Nationwide to Buy Harleysville for at Least $1.6 Billion in Expansion East

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-29T21:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/nationwide-to-buy-harleysville-to-add-business-in-u-s-east.html
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.,
the  eighth-largest  U.S. personal auto insurer, agreed to buy
rival  Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC)  in a deal that values the
Pennsylvania-based target company at about $1.6 billion.  Nationwide will pay $60 a share in cash for each publicly
held Harleysville share, the two companies said today in a
statement. Minority investors will receive about $760 million
cash, while the target company’s majority shareholder,
Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co., will combine with Nationwide
and won’t receive a cash payment, Nationwide Chief Financial
Officer Mark Thresher said in an interview.  Nationwide Chief Executive Officer Stephen Rasmussen, who
took the job in 2009, is making his first large acquisition for
the Columbus, Ohio-based carrier. The purchase price is 90
percent higher than Harleysville’s closing price of $31.52
yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, and more than double the
$25.33 price on Sept. 22, the day before takeover talks between
the two companies were reported by Bloomberg News.  “With Harleysville’s expertise in commercial lines and
Nationwide’s complementary geographic distribution, there will
be a substantial opportunity to increase market share,”
Rasmussen said in the statement.  Harleysville jumped $27.44, or 87 percent, to $58.96 at
5:19 p.m. in  New York  trading. It had slipped 14 percent this
year through yesterday.  Options, Restricted Stock  Holders of Harleysville options and restricted stock will
get about $80 million, boosting Nationwide’s total cash outlay
to about $840 million, said Eric Hardgrove, a spokesman for
Nationwide. The Harleysville valuation of $1.6 billion is based
on the 27.2 million shares outstanding as of Aug. 2.  Harleysville Mutual is owned by its policyholders, who
Thresher said won’t receive a dividend tied to the deal.  “At this point we have not planned any sort of
consideration to them, in a cash consideration,” Thresher said.
“We believe them moving over and becoming policyholders of a
larger, stronger mutual organization is a benefit to them.”  Nationwide is owned by its policyholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  