-- 
Netflix Tumbles to Lowest in One Year

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/netflix-tumbles-to-lowest-in-more-than-one-year-on-fresh-competition-fears.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-
order video service, fell 11 percent in Nasdaq trading to its
lowest price since August 2010, after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled competing products.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, tumbled $13.95 to
$113.19 at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock has fallen more than
60 percent from an all-time intraday high $304.79 on July 13
amid a customer backlash over a price increase and plans to
operate the mail-order business separately from streaming.  The streaming business faces competition from Amazon, which
unveiled a tablet computer yesterday that’s designed to work
with its own video service. Microsoft plans to offer online pay
television service from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  through its Xbox Live streaming service, people with
knowledge of the situation said.  “Cable video on demand and other video services are widely
available and poised to act as alternatives,” David Tice, vice
president of researcher Knowledge Media, said in a statement
today accompanying a report on Netflix.  Video-game systems such as Xbox are the most popular
viewing gateway for Netflix, Knowledge Networks said. Its survey
found 10 percent of Netflix customers said they would be “very
likely” to cancel if their cable or satellite TV provider
offered a similarly priced, comparable service.  Even if more cable and satellite content arrives on game
consoles, Netflix won’t face new competitive pressures, said
Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc.  “It’s true that more than 50 percent of activity on
Netflix is on the television, through consoles and other
players, but most Netflix customers already have cable or
satellite service,” Pachter, who rates Netflix “outperform,”
said in an interview. “I don’t get how you’d get a lot of cord-
cutting.”  “You have to have service to get it on the Xbox,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  