-- 
New Zealand Yields Surge as Currency Slumps on Rating Cuts by Fitch, S&P

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-09-30T06:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/new-zealand-s-credit-rating-reduced-by-fitch-on-high-debt-1-.html
New Zealand  lost its top credit
grades at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the first Asia-
Pacific nation in a decade to have its local-currency debt cut
from AAA. Government bond yields rose by the most this year.  The outlook is stable after the long-term local-currency
rating was reduced one level to AA+ and foreign-currency debt
was cut to AA from AA+, S&P said in a statement. New Zealand’s
dollar extended its biggest quarterly drop since 2008 after
Fitch announced similar moves yesterday. Both credit assessors
cited concern that government and household debt is expanding.  Joining the U.S. and  Italy  among nations suffering ratings
cuts in 2011, New Zealand was hit by earthquakes in the past
year that strained government coffers. Bond yields surged on
concern investors will sell New Zealand debt, adding to the case
for Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard to hold record-low
 interest rates  after the economy almost stalled last quarter.  “New Zealand now is ‘under scrutiny’ because of the debt
troubles offshore,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist in Sydney
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The fact that further stress in global
financial markets could hamper New Zealand’s funding ability
appeared among the major catalysts driving the decisions.”  Currency, Bonds  New Zealand’s dollar slid for a third day, declining to
76.72 U.S. cents as of 6:03 p.m. in Wellington from 77.10 cents
yesterday in  New York . The currency has weakened 7.5 percent
since June. Ten-year yields rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 4.42 percent, the biggest climb since Nov.
18, 2010.  The downgrade “follows our assessment of the likelihood
that New Zealand’s external position will deteriorate further at
a time when the country’s fiscal settings have been weakened by
earthquake-related spending pressures and fiscal stimulus to
support growth,” S&P said in its statement.  New Zealand’s economy grew 0.1 percent in the three months
through June from the previous quarter, less than the 0.5
percent growth that economists predicted, a government report
showed on Sept. 22. The jobless rate has stayed above 6 percent
since the second quarter of 2009, compared with the 4.8 percent
average over the past decade.  The ratings companies announced their decision midway
through the  Rugby World Cup , which New Zealand is hosting
through Oct. 23. The central bank forecast the tournament, with
an estimated 95,000 visitors, will boost spending by about
NZ$700 million ($538 million).  Cash Rate  Bollard on Sept. 15 left the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent for a fourth straight meeting, saying
worsening global economic and financial risks made it prudent to
stay on hold. Twelve of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the rate will be unchanged until next year.  Increased funding costs, “through a further tightening in
financial conditions, would delay any interest-rate hikes from
the RBNZ,”  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs &
Partners New Zealand Ltd., said in a note to clients.  New Zealand’s 10-year bond yield is 244 basis points more
than the equivalent U.S. note, with the spread widening from a
one-month low of 227 on Sept 27. The premium New Zealand 10-year
bonds offer over similar-maturity Australian government debt
rose 13 basis points to 18, the biggest increase since Sept. 8.  Fewer AAAs  The cuts on New Zealand’s debt reduce the number of nations
with AAA local-currency ratings from all three risk assessors to
14, with Australia,  Canada  and  Singapore  the only non-European
issuers in that group. The AA foreign-currency rating is Fitch’s
third-highest grade, leaving New Zealand at the same level as
Japan and  Kuwait , and below Spain and Australia.  Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed New Zealand at Aaa for
both local and foreign-currency debt in May.  “We’re the only highly rated country with a two-notch gap
between our Moody’s rating and  Standard & Poor’s ,” Finance
Minister  Bill English  told reporters today. “Two of them at
least now take the view that despite the fact the position has
improved and there’s a plan in place for it to continue
improving, they are more sensitive to it.”  The downgrades highlight that New Zealand is vulnerable to
global financial turmoil because it remains a highly indebted
country, English said.  ‘Matter of Time’  “It must be only a matter of time before Moody’s at least
attaches a negative outlook to New Zealand” in its rating, said
 Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
in Singapore.  S&P carried out an unprecedented cut of America’s credit
rating on Aug. 5 to AA+ from AAA for both local- and foreign-
currency debt, helping spur the  S&P 500 Index  toward its biggest
quarterly drop since 2008.  U.S. Treasuries  have gained 6 percent
this quarter, the largest advance since 2008.  New Zealand’s net external debt of 83 percent of gross
domestic product in U.S. dollar terms at the end of last year
compares with the median of 10 percent for AA-rated nations,
Fitch said. The current-account deficit, the widest measure of
trade because it includes services and investment income, is
likely to widen to 4.9 percent of GDP in 2012 and to 5.5 percent
the following year, Fitch said.  New Zealand’s ranking was cut in part because the sustained
shift in the domestic savings-to-investment ratio required to
narrow the current-account shortfall is “unlikely within the
forecast period,” Fitch said. The country’s 150 percent
household indebtedness relative to disposable income compares
with 157 percent in  Australia , 159 percent in the U.K. and 116
percent in the U.S.  Surplus Planned  The country’s ratings remain supported by the government’s
aim to return to  budget surplus  in 2015, Fitch said. That
timetable could be set back by upwards revisions to estimates of
damage from a Feb. 22 earthquake in Christchurch that killed 181
people, it said.  Foreign investors owned about NZ$32 billion of New Zealand
government bonds at Aug. 31, or about 63 percent of the total
outstanding, according to central bank figures. The government
yesterday sold a record-equaling NZ$1 billion of bonds,
receiving bids totaling NZ$1.53 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  