-- 
New Zealand Long-Term Foreign-Currency Rating Cut by Fitch on Debt Levels

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/new-zealand-long-term-foreign-currency-rating-cut-by-fitch-on-debt-levels.html
New Zealand’s credit rating was cut
one step to AA by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the southern
Pacific nation’s high level of debt and persistent current
account deficit.  The outlook is stable after the rating was reduced from
AA+, Fitch said yesterday in a statement. Yields on 10-year
notes rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.31
percent. New Zealand’s dollar erased an earlier gain versus its
U.S. counterpart, slumping 1.2 percent to 76.71 per dollar.  The country’s net external debt of 83 percent of gross
domestic product in U.S. dollar terms at the end of last year
compares with 10 percent for the median of AA-rated nations,
Fitch said. The current account deficit, or the amount of
imports that exceed exports, is likely to widen to 4.9 percent
in 2012 and to 5.5 percent the next year, the firm said.  “ New Zealand ’s high level of net external debt is an
outlier among rated peers -- a key vulnerability that is likely
to persist as the current account deficit is projected to widen
again,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at
Fitch, said in the statement. Even so, the country “remains
well-placed among the world’s highly-rated sovereign credits.”  New Zealand’s ranking was cut in part because the sustained
shift in the domestic savings to investment ratio required to
narrow the current account deficit is “unlikely within the
forecast period,” Fitch said. The country’s 150 percent
household indebtedness relative to disposable income compares
with 157 percent in Australia, 159 percent in the U.K. and 116
percent in the U.S.  Average Growth  The nation’s 0.7 percent five-year average growth in gross
domestic product “compares unfavorably” with that of 1.1
percent for AA-rated nations and 1.4 percent for those ranked
AAA, Fitch said.  Public finances have deteriorated over the past three
years, eroding what has traditionally been a ratings strength
for New Zealand, Fitch said. The debt to GDP ratio of 46 percent
in 2011 is similar to the AA median of 43 percent and the ratio
of debt to revenues has risen in line with the AA rating median
to 122 percent, it said.  With non-residents holding more than half of New Zealand’s
marketable government debt, the country’s “own funding
conditions may not be isolated from any materialization of risks
in external finances,” Fitch said. However, it said the risk of
“such a downside scenario remains remote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net 
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 