-- 
New Zealand’s Dollar Declines After Credit Rating Lowered to AA by Fitch

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-29T18:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/new-zealand-s-credit-rating-reduced-to-aa-by-fitch-on-high-debt-level.html
New Zealand ’s credit rating was cut
one step to AA by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the southern
Pacific nation’s high level of debt and persistent current
account deficit.  The outlook is stable after the rating was reduced from
AA+, Fitch said today in a statement. Yields on 10-year notes
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.31
percent. New Zealand’s dollar erased an earlier gain versus its
U.S. counterpart, slumping 1.3 percent to 76.70 U.S. cents.  The country’s 83 percent net debt to gross-domestic-product
ratio in U.S. dollar terms at the end of last year compares with
10 percent for the median of AA rated nations, Fitch said. The
current account deficit, or the amount of imports that exceed
exports, is likely to widen to 4.9 percent in 2012 and to 5.5
percent the next year, the firm said.  “New Zealand’s high level of net external debt is an
outlier among rated peers -- a key vulnerability that is likely
to persist as the current account deficit is projected to widen
again,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at
Fitch, said in the statement. The country “remains well placed
among the world’s highly-rated sovereign credits.”  New Zealand’s ranking was cut from AA+ in part because its
domestic savings to investment ratio is unlikely to narrow,
which is needed to reduce its current account deficit, Fitch
said. The country’s 150 percent household indebtedness relative
to disposable income compares with 157 percent in Australia 116
percent in the U.S.  The nation’s 0.7 percent five-year average growth in gross
domestic product “compares unfavorably” with that of 1.1
percent for AA rated nations and 1.4 percent for those ranked
AAA, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  