-- 
New England, U.S. West May Be Cooler Next Week, Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-29T13:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/new-england-u-s-west-may-be-cooler-next-week-rogers-says.html
New England  and the U.S. West may
be cooler than normal next week, while the northern Great Plains
and Great Lakes regions warm up, said  Matt Rogers , president of
the Commodity Weather Group LLC.  The area from the West Coast into the Rocky Mountains, as
well as the six New England states and the Canadian Maritimes
may be 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.6 to 2.7 Celsius) cooler
than normal, Rogers said in his outlook covering Oct. 4 to Oct.
8.  “The big picture is fairly similar today with no major
changes,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  In his 11- to 15-day outlook, Rogers calls for the eastern
U.S. to be warmer than usual with average temperatures rising 3
to 5 degrees above normal for this time of year. The normal
average temperature for Central Park today is 63 degrees,
according to the  National Weather Service .  While the East warms, the northwestern U.S., including
northern  California , Idaho and  Montana , may be 3 to 5 degrees
cooler than normal. The average temperature in Butte, Montana
for today is 47 degrees, according to the weather service.  The Climate Prediction Center’s 8- to 14-day forecast for
Oct. 6 to Oct. 12 calls for the eastern half of the U.S. to have
a 40 to 60 percent chance of being warmer than normal. The Great
Lakes region has the highest chance of being warmer with average
temperatures ranging from 45 to 55 degrees, according to the
center.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling, and  power plants  use
about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  