-- 
Nokia to Cut 3,500 More Jobs, Shutter Factory in Romania; Shares Retreat

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-09-29T10:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/nokia-to-cut-3-500-more-jobs-in-new-restructuring-measures.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will eliminate 3,500
jobs, shut a mobile-phone factory in Romania and inject 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) with  Siemens AG (SIE)  into their
unprofitable network-equipment venture.  The closure of the plant in Cluj, which only began
production in 2008, along with adjustments with suppliers will
take out 2,200 positions, Nokia said today. The company will
also reorganize its map business, cutting 1,300 jobs, and review
the future of its handset plants in Finland, Hungary and Mexico.  The reductions come on top of 4,000 job cuts announced in
April, mainly in research and development. Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop is slimming Espoo, Finland-based Nokia 
after losing market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and as faster-moving 
Asian competitors such as HTC Corp. drove the price of 
smartphones with computer-like features below $100.  “It seems there’s a shortfall in volumes compared to what
the company expected last spring and now they need to adjust
production to meet lower levels of demand,” said  Michael Schroeder , a Helsinki-based analyst at FIM Bank.  Nokia fell as much as 2.3 percent in Helsinki and was up
0.5 percent to 4.20 euros as of 12:48 p.m. local time. Siemens
added 0.1 percent to 68.93 euros in Frankfurt trading.  Preferred Shares  Nokia and Siemens will each contribute 500 million
euros in cash to Nokia Siemens Networks, their 50-50 venture.
The parents will get preferred stock in return, Nokia spokesman
James Etheridge said by telephone.  The owners named Jesper Ovesen as the venture’s executive
chairman, replacing former Nokia CEO Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, who
was non-executive chairman and is retiring from Nokia. Ovesen,
54, was chief financial officer of TDC A/S, whose private equity
owners sold shares in the Danish carrier to the public last
year.  It will be easier for Nokia Siemens to tap the financial
markets independently once its profitability improves, Siemens
spokesman Wolfram Trost said. It’s too early to speculate on a
possible initial public offering and the focus now is on
operational and financial improvements, he said.  Nokia Siemens, which has been unprofitable for all but one
quarter since it started in April 2007, said in July that it
wanted to improve its competitiveness as a standalone entity and
had ended talks about a possible stake sale to private-equity
investors. The venture, the second-largest maker of wireless
networks after Ericsson AB,  is struggling to hold onto that
position as competition with  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co.
intensifies.  Industry Outlook  “Ovesen may be able to do another successful restructuring
just as he seems to have done at TDC,” said Michael Hagmann, an
analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London . “At the end it
may take a little bit longer until demand in this industry
finally improves enough for Siemens to be able to offload its
stake.”  Nokia shipments of low-end phones  dropped  16 percent in the
second quarter. Smartphone volume fell 34 percent. The company
is expected to start shipping a new line based on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone by year-end.  Nokia has 10 handset factories. Three make smartphones, in
Finland, China and South Korea, and one in the U.K. makes the
Vertu luxury models. Low-end mobile phones are made in  Brazil ,
Mexico, China, Romania, Hungary and  India . Nokia announced plans
in March to add a plant in  Vietnam .  Navteq Reorganization  The company is folding its maps business Navteq, acquired
for $8.1 billion in 2008, into a new location and commerce
software division that will help its handsets stand out from
competitors. Nokia will shutter units in Bonn and Malvern,
 Pennsylvania  as a result.  Nokia’s smartphone market share plummeted to 20.9 percent
in the second quarter from 37.4 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. Its overall handset market
share  declined  to 22.8 percent from 30.3 percent in the second
quarter of 2010.  Elop has also shifted 3,000 employees to  Accenture Plc (ACN) 
along with the Symbian operating software to make way for the
adoption of Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 and other platforms.  While factories in  Asia  “provide greater scale and
proximity benefits,” the company is committed to keeping
research and development facilities in  Europe , Elop said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  