-- 
Nymex Exchange ‘Concerned’ About Timeframe for Brent Changes

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-29T14:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/nymex-exchange-concerned-about-timeframe-for-brent-changes.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Nymex unit is
“concerned” about the planned dates for changes to North Sea
Brent crude pricing, according to a company official.  Platts, the energy news and pricing arm of McGraw Hill
Cos., announced Sept. 16 that it will lengthen the loading
period for its Dated Brent assessment, which is used to price
more than half the world’s oil, to 10 to 25 days forward from 10
to 21 days starting Jan. 6. The move may increase the number of
cargoes delivered against Dated Brent and boost trading
activity. Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk blends, known
collectively as BFOE, are used to price the benchmark.  Open interest on Brent-related options on the Nymex
exchange stands at 430,000 contracts, or roughly 50 percent of
the market share, Daniel Brusstar, director of energy research
and product development at CME Group, said at the Argus European
Crude Trading conference in Geneva today. Open interest for
Brent swaps on Nymex are at about 188,000 positions, he said.  “We have to oversee an orderly market, so we’re concerned
about the months ahead,” he said. “The shift to a 25-day Brent
market is probably overdue, but bringing it into the market with
three months’ notice is a bit disruptive.”  ‘New Expiry’  The bourse’s competitor ICE Futures  Europe  said yesterday
it may start “new expiry” Brent crude futures and options
contracts in the fourth quarter to take into account changes in
the loading dates for the North Sea oil. The first settlement
month for the contracts will be February 2013, according to
ICE’s website.  Nymex is monitoring the impact of the Platts changes and
hasn’t proposed any changes to its Brent-related contracts,
Brusstar said.  “For any changes in a futures or an options contract we
look for at least 12 to 18 months’ notice,” Brusstar said. “We
have a lot of customers who are very concerned about their
options positions.”  The move by Platts may cause “short-term difficulty” in
the futures and derivatives markets for swaps and options,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 16.  Shell, Europe’s largest oil producer, said in a letter
posted on its website Aug. 10 that it recommended Platts
implement the change in 2013 instead of 2012 “to ensure an
orderly transition in the marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  