-- 
Obama Says U.S. Had Been ‘A Little Soft’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-30T18:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/obama-pushes-for-jobs-plan-during-2-swing-state-tv-interviews.html
President  Barack Obama , seeking to
rally support for his jobs plan in two states pivotal in next
year’s election, suggested that the nation needs to regain a
competitive edge in technology and education.  “This is a great, great country that had gotten a little
soft and didn’t have that same competitive edge that we needed
over the last couple of decades,” Obama said in an interview
yesterday with WESH television in  Orlando, Florida . “We need to
get back on track.”  At the same time, Obama said he “would not trade our
position with anybody on Earth. We still have the best
universities, the best scientists and the best workers in the
world.”  The president aimed his remarks at an audience in a swing-
voting region of one of the biggest states that was key to his
election in 2008. He also conducted an interview with WXII
television in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , another state that
he carried in 2008 and that will host the party’s 2012
presidential nominating convention.  Obama is campaigning for congressional support for a $447
billion jobs program centered on rebuilding infrastructure and
offering payroll tax breaks for workers and employers.  Triggering Job Growth  “There are a set of policies that historically have been
supported by both Democrats and Republicans that are in this
jobs bill,” the president said in the interview with WXII-TV.
“It’s time for Congress to act, and I’m just going to keep on
pushing over the next several weeks to make sure that they try
to do something to help people right now.”  North Carolina “represents what the country’s going
through -- lost manufacturing in the furniture industry,
textiles, tobacco,” Obama said. Congress’s passage of his jobs
plan, which he announced Sept. 8, is “the most important thing
we can do right now” to trigger job growth, he said.  He said the plan would put construction workers and
teachers back to work in  Florida  and North Carolina, and would
give tax breaks to small businesses and the middle class.  The president said he plans to campaign heavily in Florida
and North Carolina. A third television interview taped yesterday
will air at an undetermined time on WTVF-TV in Nashville,
 Tennessee .  Nine Appearances  The president did the local television interviews two days
after he returned from a three-day trip to the West Coast, which
included stops in  California , Washington state and  Colorado . The
trip was intended to raise money for his re-election and press
Congress to enact his package of tax cuts and spending aimed at
spurring hiring to trim the nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment
rate.  Of his nine appearances during the West Coast swing, seven
of them were at fundraisers.  During the interview with WESH-TV in Orlando, Obama said
“we’re not where we need to be” with  job creation . “We’ve
still got a long way to go.”  He cited his proposal to help reduce barriers for people
who are refinancing their homes as a way to boost the economy.  “There are too many barriers that are in place for those
folks who have mortgages that are in some ways guaranteed by
 Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac  or the FHA,” he said. If those
barriers were removed, Obama said, as much as 15 or 20 percent
of the housing stock in the U.S. could be refinanced and put an
additional $2,000 in people’s pockets.  Governor’s ‘Mistake’  Obama said Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican
elected in 2010, made a “mistake” when he turned down federal
funds for a high-speed rail project in the state.  “It had business support; it had support from Republican
legislators down there; it was the right thing to do,” Obama
said. “Florida stood to make big gains and to create a lot of
jobs down there. It was a mistake to turn that money down
because there were a lot of other states that were very anxious
to pick it up.”  In February, Scott rejected $2.4 billion of U.S. funds to
build a high-speed rail line. He had said the 84-mile rapid
passenger train between  Orlando  and Tampa could have burdened
taxpayers with $3 billion in extra expenses.  Obama said he is likely to visit Florida in January or
February because of its perennial sunshine.  Primary Date  A Florida commission voted today to move up the state’s
presidential primary to Jan. 31, 2012, a move likely to
accelerate the nominating process for selecting Obama’s
Republican opponent.  The commission is seeking to “put Florida in a prominent
position on the primary calendar and in the election overall,”
Chris Cate, a spokesman for Florida’s secretary of state, said
in an interview after the panel’s 7-2 vote.  Florida’s move is likely to shift the start of voting in
the Republican race a month earlier than national party leaders
had intended, condensing a number of important contests into
January and creating a holiday-season campaign crunch that
officials and candidates had hoped to avoid.  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,  South Carolina  and  Nevada  are expected
to move up the dates of their nominating contests to early or
mid-January to maintain their status as the first four states
voting in the race. The Iowa caucuses, which traditionally start
the process, had been tentatively set for Feb. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  