-- 
Logum Logistica Wins $924 Million Loan for Ethanol Pipeline

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-29T21:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/logum-logistica-gets-1-7-billion-reais-loan-from-bndes.html
Logum Logistica SA, a joint venture
backed by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , won a 1.7 billion real ($924
million) loan from development bank Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social for a project to transport
Brazilian ethanol by pipeline.  The bridge loan will cover a first phase of the project
that includes three sections of pipeline in the states of  Sao
Paulo  and  Minas Gerais , Sao Paulo-based Logum Logistica said in
a statement today.  Trucks currently move almost all Brazilian ethanol,
transportation that costs an average of 8 centavos a liter,
according to Joao Chierighini, logistics manager at Sao Paulo-
based ethanol trader Bioagencia. Logum will be able to charge
mills a significant fee to use the pipeline, which can reduce
freight costs by as much as 30 percent, he said.  “The pipeline’s operators will achieve big margins,” he
said. “You can only transport ethanol by road at the moment.
There are few alternatives.”  The 1,330-kilometer (830-mile) ethanol pipeline would be
able to transport 21 billion liters of ethanol a year from the
country’s central-west region to consumption centers in the
southeast, the company said.  Logum Logistica’s backers include state-controlled oil
company Petrobras, construction company Odebrecht SA, and
Raizen,  Brazil ’s biggest cane miller, according to the
statement.  Brazil is the second-largest producer of ethanol, behind
the U.S., according to the  U.S. Energy Information
Administration . Anhydrous ethanol, which is mixed with gasoline
in Brazil, sells for about 1.38 reais a liter, according to
information compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  