-- 
1 in 5 Modified Loans Default Again: Comptroller

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-09-29T16:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/one-in-five-modified-loans-default-again-u-s-comptroller-says.html
One in five homeowners whose
mortgages were modified under a program aimed at reducing
foreclosures defaulted again within a year after their payments
were cut, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency reported today.  Twenty percent of modified loans were at least 90 days
delinquent within a year in the second quarter, according to the
Comptroller’s “Mortgage Metrics Report.” Delinquencies for
loans 30 to 59 days late increased 0.4 percentage points to 3
percent from the previous quarter,  “Foreclosures may continue to increase in future quarters
as a large number of foreclosures work through the process and
alternatives to foreclosure are exhausted,” the Comptroller, a
division of the U.S. Treasury Department, said in a statement.  Mortgage delinquencies have increased amid slow economic
growth and a U.S. unemployment rate that’s been 9 percent or
higher since April. Default notices sent to delinquent
homeowners surged 33 percent in August from the previous month,
RealtyTrac Inc. said on Sept. 15.  Total loan modifications and alternative payment plans for
delinquent borrowers fell to 456,397 in the three months ending
June 30, down 19 percent from a year earlier, according to the
Comptroller’s  report . That included a 35 percent decline in
modifications through the government’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, which granted 70,071 new payment plans
during the quarter.  While the number of modifications fell, they outnumbered
the 121,202 completed foreclosures as lenders seized fewer
properties, the Comptroller said. Total home forfeitures,
including foreclosures, short sales and deeds in lieu of
foreclosure, declined 22 percent to 180,151.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  