-- 
Top Cybersecurity Official Cites Hacker Threat to Infrastructure

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-29T19:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/top-cybersecurity-official-cites-hacker-threat-to-infrastructure.html
Damage inflicted by corporate data
breaches this year pales in comparison to what might happen if a
power grid or chemical plant were targeted by hackers or
malicious software, a top U.S. cybersecurity official said.  A cyber attack on the nation’s critical infrastructure
“could have cascading effects across multiple sectors” and is
“another order of magnitude that we have to be worried about
now,” Greg Schaffer, acting deputy undersecretary at the
Homeland Security Department, said today.  The nation’s “adversaries” are “knocking on the doors of
these systems and in some cases there have been intrusions,”
Schaffer said, without detailing which companies were targeted
and when.  Schaffer spoke during a tour of facilities at the Energy
Department’s Idaho National Laboratory, where DHS has programs
that assess technology vulnerabilities in utility, manufacturing
and other systems and work with companies in those sectors to
address specific cyberthreats. The laboratory is a center for
nuclear energy research.  A cybersecurity proposal from the Obama administration
calls for the Homeland Security Department to “work with
industry” to shore up vulnerabilities in critical
infrastructure, such as electrical grids and financial networks.
The proposal, submitted to Congress in May, seeks to jump-start
efforts in Congress to update U.S. laws in response to the
increased threat of cyber attacks capable of crippling business
and government operations.  Cybersecurity Legislation  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is
compiling comprehensive cybersecurity legislation on his side of
 Capitol Hill . In the House, a task force of 12 Republicans led
by Representative William “Mac” Thornberry of  Texas  is
expected to send its cybersecurity recommendations to House
Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  on Oct. 3.  Data breaches at Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
have sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how businesses
protect consumer information and notify the public about cyber
attacks. Sony was criticized by U.S. lawmakers including
Representative Mary Bono Mack for taking six days to disclose an
attack that exposed 100 million customer accounts and prompted
the temporary shutdown of the company’s PlayStation Network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  