-- 
Top India Ministers Bid to Bury Differences as Telecom Row Engulfs Cabinet

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-29T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/top-indian-ministers-bid-to-bury-differences-over-telecom-scam.html
The two most senior ministers in
the cabinet of Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  sought to
end a controversy over events leading up to a sale of phone
licenses that had engulfed an already fragile government.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , flanked by senior
colleagues, said yesterday that a letter from his ministry that
appeared to criticize his predecessor in the role, the now Home
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, for failing to prevent alleged
corruption surrounding the 2008 spectrum allotment didn’t
reflect his views. Chidambaram declared the matter closed.  The letter and the ministers’ reaction to it had exposed a
deep rivalry between two men considered possible future
contenders for the post of prime minister, further undermining a
government weakened by the allegations of graft and opposition
attacks.  Street protests and hunger strikes by social activists have
forced business leaders to acknowledge that a growing
association with graft and paralysis in policymaking is harming
investor confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  India ’s chief auditor said the cut-price, first-come,
first-served permit sale three years ago may have reduced
government revenue by $31 billion. Former telecommunications
minister Andimuthu Raja and company executives are on trial on
charges they conspired to grant licenses to unqualified
companies for personal benefit. All deny wrongdoing.  Court Plea  The tussle at the top of Singh’s council of ministers
erupted after Subramanian Swamy, the president of a regional
political party, filed a plea in the  Supreme Court  seeking an
investigation into Chidambaram’s actions. The minister, Swamy
said, took part in discussions on the pricing of airwaves and
could have insisted on an auction that would have secured market
rates.  To support his petition, Swamy submitted to the court the
March letter from Mukherjee’s office that argued Chidambaram had
missed an opportunity to ensure greater transparency and larger
revenue by forcing an auction.  The top court yesterday adjourned hearings until Oct. 10.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  said Mukherjee’s
statement yesterday aimed to settle an “ego battle” between
the two ministers and not ensure “public probity.”  “The statement of Pranab Mukherjee only makes the crisis
deeper,” Ravi Shankar Prasad, a spokesman for the BJP, said.
Chidambaram’s role in the phone permit sale “needs to be
investigated.”  Amid BJP calls for Chidambaram’s resignation, Singh on
Sept. 27 said a “restless opposition” would not succeed in its
attempts to force early elections by undermining his government.
The government’s second term expires in 2014.  A special court in New Delhi is hearing the charges brought
by the  Central Bureau of Investigation  against Raja and
government and company officials. The CBI put the potential loss
to the government from the permit sale at a much lower $4.9
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  