-- 
Mosaic May Need to Use Cash to Increase Its Dividend

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-30T17:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/mosaic-may-need-to-use-cash-to-boost-dividend-for-investors.html
(Corrects company’s location and removes asset reference
in ninth paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the U.S. fertilizer
maker formed by a Cargill Inc. unit merger, may need to boost
its dividend to satisfy investors who’ve been waiting for a
payoff from its cash holdings.  The company, based in Plymouth,  Minnesota , has $1 of cash
for every $4 of assets on its balance sheet, according to
Bloomberg data. That’s double the cash-to-assets ratio of  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which this week unveiled its
first share buyback in four decades.  Mosaic can’t use its cash to buy back shares on the open
market for two years, under the terms of Cargill’s spinoff of
its majority stake. Mosaic is also expected to keep its 5-cent
dividend unchanged until 2013, according to a Bloomberg
forecast. Its stock, which has dropped 29 percent this year,
fell to a 52-week low of $52.61 today in New York.  “There’s no reason not to be more aggressive,” said Jerry Jordan, a Boston-based  money manager  at Hellman Jordan
Management Co., which oversees about $575 million including
shares of Mosaic.  The company has the second-highest cash-to-assets ratio
among Russell 1000 companies with a greater than 15 percent
share decline this year and no buybacks in the past five years,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We have no new announcements, but we are always looking
to create  shareholder value ,” Rob Litt said in a telephone
interview today. Mosaic was created when Cargill combined its
fertilizer business with IMC Global in 2004.  ‘Unwilling to Sell’  Mosaic was rebuffed in an attempt to buy its shares from
the Margaret A. Cargill trust, its only stock-purchase option
under the spinoff by closely held Cargill. The trust, which
holds 21.3 million shares in Mosaic, is “unwilling to sell
additional shares at this time at current prices,” Mosaic Chief
Financial Officer Lawrence Stranghoener said on an investor
conference call today.  Mosaic fell $2.99, or 5.2 percent, to $54.20 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s
shares have fallen more than fertilizer industry rivals Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and CF Industries Holdings Inc.  “I’d increase the dividend permanently so you can
permanently attract buyers to your stock,”  Michael Pento , the
Holmdel, New Jersey-based president of Pento Portfolio
Strategies, said in an interview. “If they’re not using that
cash to grow the business, they’ve got to bring the dividend
yield closer to 1 percent.”  ‘Activist Shareholders’  Cargill announced Jan. 18 its shareholders and debt holders
would get its 64 percent Mosaic stake in a spinoff.  Hedge funds 
now own 19 percent of Mosaic shares, up from 13 percent at the
end of May, according to Bloomberg data.  “Now that Cargill is no longer the major shareholder, you
may have more activist shareholders who have a bigger voting
interest, and perhaps Mosaic will have to listen to them a
little more carefully,” said Chris Damas, a Barrie, Ontario-
based analyst at BCMI Research.  Mosaic’s cash position expanded to $4.04 billion in the
three months ended in August, up 71 percent from a year earlier,
the company said yesterday. Mosaic’s sales increased 41 percent
to $3.1 billion.  Not all signs point to Mosaic paying a special dividend or
boosting its investor payout anytime soon.  ‘Very Conservative Company’  The company is unlikely to hand more money to shareholders
now because of regulatory hurdles at one of its phosphate mines
in  Florida  and the likelihood it may need to acquire more
reserves of phosphate rock outside the U.S.,  Mark Gulley , a New
York-based fertilizer analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC,
said in a Sept. 27 interview.  Legal challenges by environmentalists may force Mosaic to
shut its mine at South Fort Meade, Florida, potentially
increasing the company’s reliance on buying phosphate rock on
the open market, Gulley said by telephone.  “Mosaic’s a very, very conservative company,” Gulley
said. “I would expect they’d hold off on a decision on
increased shareholder distributions until as late as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 