-- 
Total Wins, Arkema Loses Chemical Cartel Fine EU Court Bid

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-29T09:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/total-wins-chemicals-cartel-fine-appeal-at-eu-top-court.html
Total SA (FP) ’s  Elf Aquitaine  unit won a
bid at the European Union’s top court to overturn its share of
antitrust fines levied against it together with former Total
subsidiary  Arkema SA (AKE)  for fixing prices of a chemical used in
detergents.  The European Commission “had not given sufficiently
reasoned answers to several of the arguments put forward by Elf
Aquitaine in order to establish that Arkema determined its
conduct on the market independently,” the  EU Court of Justice 
ruled today. The Luxembourg-based court rejected a separate
appeal by Arkema against its part of the fine.  The companies had challenged the way in which the
commission calculated part of the 216.9 million-euro ($296
million) penalty against manufacturers, including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) 
and  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ’s Hoechst unit, for rigging prices of
monochloroacetic acid. The case is the first in which a
commission fine was challenged over the failure to show the
parent company knew about antitrust violations.  In its 2005 decision, the Brussels-based commission fined
Total’s Atofina unit 58.5 million euros, including a joint
45 million-euro penalty for Arkema and Total’s Elf Aquitaine,
based in Courbevoie,  France . Arkema was spun off from Total in
2006.  “We’re very satisfied with this decision,” Total
spokeswoman Sandra Dante said by telephone. “We now have to
analyze the ruling before we can make any further comments.”  2009 Challenges  Sybille Chaix, a spokeswoman for Arkema, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Companies fined in the cartel, including Akzo, lost
challenges in 2009 at the  EU General Court , the region’s second-
highest court. Only Hoechst won a reduction of about 10 percent
to its fine, cutting it to 66.6 million euros from 74.03 million
euros.  The commission said in 2005 the companies conspired for 15
years to control more than 90 percent of the European market
worth as much as 125 million euros annually. Monochloroacetic
acid is also used to make adhesives and drugs and to thicken
cosmetics.  The cases are: C-520/09 P, Arkema v. Commission; C-521/09
P, Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  