-- 
Arizona Shooting Suspect’s Treatment Extended for Four Months

-- B y   A . J .   F l i c k   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/loughner-judge-extends-shooting-suspect-s-pretrial-psychological-treatment.html
A federal judged ordered four more
months of psychiatric treatment for Jared Loughner, the suspect
in the Jan. 8 shooting rampage in Tucson, Arizona, that left six
people including a U.S. judge dead.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns yesterday gave prison
psychologists the extension to try to render Loughner, who was
diagnosed with schizophrenia, mentally competent to face trial
on charges of murder and the attempted assassination of U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  at a community meeting outside
a supermarket.  Loughner, 23, has been involuntarily medicated with anti-
psychotic drugs and confined to a federal  prison  hospital in
Springfield,  Missouri . Burns ruled in May that Loughner was
incompetent to stand trial and ordered him to be treated for
four months or until doctors determined he was mentally able to
help in his defense.  Burns said yesterday at the hearing in Tucson that he wants
to see “measurable progress, more than I’ve seen here today.”  The judge said that he has “good cause” to believe forced
medication should continue based on testimony that, if Loughner
were taken off the drugs, he would deteriorate. Burns also said
that his observations of Loughner in court corresponded with
testimony that he is improving.  Giffords, an  Arizona  Democrat, was among 13 people wounded
in the Jan. 8 shooting rampage before bystanders wrestled the
suspect to the ground. Giffords survived a gunshot wound through
her head. U.S. District Judge John Roll was among those killed.  Remorseful, Guilty  A Bureau of Prisons psychologist who has been treating
Loughner testified at yesterday’s hearing that the defendant
knows that Giffords is alive and that he has murdered people.
Loughner has expressed remorse, said Dr. Christina Pietz.
Loughner is still delusional and depressed but improving with
medication, said Pietz, who said she expects the improvement to
continue.  “He is remorseful. He feels guilty,” Pietz said. “I’m
not sure medication is going to help him with that.”  Loughner has pleaded not guilty to murder and attempted
murder charges.  Pietz also testified that Loughner has seen a video taken
from a security camera at the Safeway in front of which the
shooting took place and that he believes it was edited by  law
enforcement  or his attorneys or is a “re-enactment.” As long
as Loughner believes the video was altered, she could not
consider him competent to stand trial, Pietz said.  Reuben Camper Cahn, one of his Loughner’s lawyers, declined
to comment after the hearing.  Loughner entered the courtroom yesterday wearing a white T-
shirt and tan pants, handcuffed and shackled. Unlike in previous
courtroom appearances, he didn’t grin or smirk, which Pietz said
indicates how medication has improved schizophrenic tics that
caused inappropriate behavioral responses.  Loughner’s parents sat in a back row, accompanied by an
attorney.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  