-- 
House Republicans Seek Cuts in Pell Grants

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-09-29T20:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/house-republicans-seek-cuts-in-pell-college-tuition-grants-public-radio.html
House Republicans  announced plans
to cut funding for Pell college tuition grants, NPR and other
Democratic priorities, setting up another contentious round of
negotiations on the federal budget.  The House Appropriations Committee today called for
eliminating more than 30 education programs, including President
Barack Obama’s “Race to the Top” initiative. The panel
proposed slashing the Department of Labor’s budget by one-fifth,
slicing funds for the  National Labor Relations Board  by 17
percent and barring funds to implement Obama’s health-care
overhaul. It would also withhold funding for Planned Parenthood
unless it says it will stop providing abortions.  The provisions are included in a $153.4 billion measure
needed to fund the departments of Health and Human Services,
Education and Labor for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The
Republicans’ plan would amount to $4 billion cut or about 2.5
percent less than this year. The committee estimated the plan
provides 15 percent less than the administration sought in its
February budget request.  “To protect critical programs and services that many
Americans rely on -- especially in this time of fiscal crisis --
this bill takes decisive action to cut duplicative, inefficient
and wasteful spending to help get these agency budgets onto
sustainable financial footing,” said Appropriations Committee
Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, in a statement.  Democratic Opposition  Democrats denounced the proposed cuts.  “After a year of contentious budget debates, radical
proposals from the new majority and multiple threats of
government shutdowns” there “had been hope that we’d be able
to put all that behind us for a while,” said Representative
Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat on the spending panel.  “Judging from these proposals, though, the Republican
majority doesn’t seem to be on board for that goal” and “it
looks like we’re in for a long, difficult process,” DeLauro
said in a statement.  Republicans unveiled the legislation the same day Congress
gave final approval to a stopgap budget measure funding the
government until Oct. 4. The Senate approved the plan Sept. 26
to end a partisan standoff over federal disaster aid that had
threatened a government shutdown.  Nov. 18  The House plans next week to take up a second measure that
would keep federal agencies operating until Nov. 18 while
lawmakers negotiate budget levels for the rest of the 2012
fiscal year. Congress hasn’t completed work on any of the 12
annual appropriations bills that establish funding levels for
hundreds of programs.  The legislation announced today revives cuts Republicans
proposed and ultimately dropped earlier this year. Among them
are proposals to end federal funding for the public radio
network NPR and eliminate the Americorps volunteer program, a
Clinton administration initiative.  The maximum Pell grant would continue to be $5,550 under
the Republican plan, which would cut $3.6 billion from the
program next year though a series of changes. Grants would be
eliminated for students who don’t have a high school diploma or
the equivalent as well as for those going to college less than
half-time. The maximum number of semesters a student could
receive a grant would be cut to 12 semesters from 18.  Among the winners in the bill is the  National Institutes of
Health , which would see a 3.3 percent budget increase, matching
the administration’s request. Head Start, an early childhood
development program, would get a $540 million increase, as
requested by the White House. The House bill also would set
aside $20 million to promote sexual-abstinence education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  