-- 
Toyota Wins Dismissal of Speed-Up Case Set for First Trial

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-09-30T00:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/toyota-wins-dismissal-of-sudden-acceleration-lawsuit-set-for-first-trial.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won dismissal of
the first sudden acceleration lawsuit set for trial in
California in 2013 because a federal judge determined it should
have been filed in state court in Utah.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled at least
8 million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of
defects and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration.
The recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims
of injuries and deaths. The first test case was set for trial in
February 2013.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
California, today dismissed that first bellwether case, brought
by the families of two people killed in a crash in Utah in 2010,
finding a federal warranty claim in the lawsuit failed to meet a
required $50,000 threshold for damages. The plaintiffs couldn’t
count potential personal injury or punitive damages to reach
this requirement, under federal law, Selna said.  “Plaintiffs are unable to reach the jurisdictional
threshold of $50,000 in damages,” Selna said. “The case is
dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.”  The ruling won’t keep the case from being tried or from
remaining in federal court,  Mark Robinson , an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a phone interview. The warranty claim,
brought under the federal Magnuson Moss Warranty Act, was aimed
at the dealer and isn’t essential to the lawsuit against Toyota,
Robinson said.  ‘Everything Else’  “I am drafting a new complaint right now in which the
dealer will not be named as a defendant and everything will be
cured and the suit will go forward seeking punitive damages and
everything else,” he said.  “We are pleased this jurisdictional issue has been
resolved and that the court agrees with Toyota that the proper
forum for this case is Utah state court,”  Celeste Migliore , a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Utah  lawsuit was filed on behalf of Paul Van Alfen, who
died when his 2008 Toyota Camry crashed into a wall, and
passenger Charlene Lloyd, who died the next day.  Van Alfen’s wife and son were injured in the 2010 crash and
are suing as well. The families say the accident happened when
the vehicle unexpectedly accelerated as Van Alfen pulled onto an
exit ramp on I-80 near Wendover, Utah, and didn’t stop even
after he slammed on the brakes.  The families alleged the Camry was defective and the Toyota
City, Japan-based carmaker failed to include a brake override
system or device to stop inadvertent acceleration.  First Test Case  The Van Alfen case was selected in June as the first test
case in the sudden acceleration claims before Selna. A
bellwether case is used by the court and lawyers for both sides
to test evidence and liability theories before moving on to
other trials or limiting future litigation.  Lawsuits were combined before Selna in a multidistrict
litigation for evidence-gathering and pretrial rulings.  The Utah lawsuit is Van Alfen v. Toyota Motor Sales USA
Inc., 2:11-cv-04143, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Santa Ana). The cases are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego 
at   callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  