-- 
HP Said to Have Been Concerned Over Oracle When Switching CEOs

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-29T00:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/hp-said-to-have-been-concerned-over-oracle-when-switching-ceos.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  directors were
concerned that plummeting shares would make the company
vulnerable to a bid from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  when they replaced  Leo Apotheker  with  Meg Whitman , two people close to the board said.  While Oracle has considered informally whether to approach
Hewlett-Packard, it’s unlikely to make a bid any time soon,
three people close to the software company said. After speaking
with several financial advisers, Hewlett-Packard has hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to help it prepare for any possible
moves by activist investors, one person said.  Whitman took over as chief executive officer on Sept. 22,
succeeding Apotheker, who presided over a 47 percent drop in
Hewlett-Packard stock and sliced sales forecasts three times in
less than a year. As the board deliberated changing CEOs, one
consideration was whether share-price weakness would invite an
unwelcome overture, the people close to the board said.  “We were very explicit about why we named a new CEO,”
said  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard. “The board believes that the
job of the HP CEO now requires additional attributes to
successfully execute on the company’s strategy.”  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, and  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment.  Hewlett-Packard Stock Plunge  Share declines accelerated after the Aug. 18 announcement
that Hewlett-Packard would consider spinning off its $41 billion
personal computer division, and would buy Cambridge, England-
based software maker Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion, a price
investors regarded as too high. Apotheker also was unable to get
top executives to work together, executive chairman  Ray Lane 
told investors on a Sept. 22 conference call.  Oracle is not interested in Hewlett-Packard’s PC, printer
or information-technology services divisions, nor does it want
to sell server computers running Windows, the software made by
Oracle rival Microsoft Corp., one person said. The company may
also be inhibited by terms of an agreement, announced in
September, over the appointment of  Mark Hurd  as a co-president
of Oracle, other people said.  That’s when the companies resolved the lawsuit by Hewlett-
Packard, which sued on Sept. 7 to block Hurd -- former CEO of
Hewlett-Packard -- from moving to Oracle.  Hurd’s Hands Tied  The agreement included stipulations that Hurd protect
Hewlett-Packard’s confidential information while fulfilling his
obligations to Oracle, the companies said at the time. It also
ties Oracle’s hands from attempting to acquire Hewlett-Packard
until some time early next year, people familiar with the
agreement said.  Oracle, which has $31.7 billion in cash, is also not
interested in using its shares to try to buy Hewlett-Packard,
which has a market value of $46.1 billion, one person said.
However, Oracle could be interested in buying Hewlett-Packard’s
$18.7 billion server, storage and networking division if it were
available on a stand-alone basis, this person said.  Hewlett-Packard’s decision to work with Goldman Sachs in
relation to activist shareholders was previously reported by the
Wall Street Journal.  “HP has long-term relationships with a large number of
investment banks,” Mangalindan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  