-- 
Pandit Sees Euro Surviving Financial Crisis, Citigroup Risk ‘Manageable’

-- B y   S u s a n   L i ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-09-29T08:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/pandit-sees-euro-surviving-crisis-as-citigroup-limits-its-risk-in-region.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said Europe’s crisis is about sovereign
debt, not the euro’s survival, and the bank’s level of risk in
the region is “extremely manageable.”  “This is an issue of leverage -- it’s not a euro issue,”
Pandit, 54, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Singapore today. “The Europeans will figure it out. They’ll get
through the debt crisis and get to the other side being fully
committed to the euro and the  euro zone .”  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, has tumbled 45
percent this year in New York trading amid concern that European
countries such as  Greece  may default on their debts. The euro
remains above its average since its creation almost 12 years ago,
a sign that foreign-exchange traders see little chance of a
collapse as officials step up efforts to contain the crisis.  Pandit, who oversaw Citigroup’s recovery with the help of a
$45 billion government bailout, said the bank will provide more
information on its assets at risk in  Europe  when it releases
results for the third quarter that ends tomorrow.  The New York-based lender has $31.7 billion of gross funds
at risk in Greece,  Italy ,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland, and had
$15.7 billion in gross “cross-border outstandings” with French
banks at the end of June, according to filings. The figures
exclude so-called hedges against potential default.  Stronger Euro  The euro is trading at about $1.36, compared with its
average of about $1.20 since January 1999. Strategists see the
currency rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the median
of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Global investors anticipate Europe’s crisis leading to an
economic slump, a financial meltdown and social unrest in the
next year with 72 percent predicting a country abandoning the
euro within five years, according to a quarterly survey of
Bloomberg subscribers released today.  Pandit said growth in the U.S. and developed markets will
be hampered as households and companies reduce borrowing.  “The U.S. may not grow as we would like it to grow,
unemployment may be a little higher than we all like it to be
at,” he said in the Asian city-state, where the company’s board
is meeting this week. “But I’m also very confident that we’ll
get through this.”  Mulally ‘Encouraged’  Pandit echoed remarks made by Ford Motor Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who said today that the  U.S.
economy  is still expanding.  “Clearly the recession we went through is the worst that
we’ve had since the Depression, so we’re very encouraged by the
recovery even though it’s slower than in the past,” Mulally, 66,
said in a group interview in Bangkok. He said the automaker
plans to add 7,000 jobs over the next two years in the U.S.  The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has slid 13
percent since June 30, heading for its biggest quarterly drop
since 2008, on concern that the U.S. recovery will falter amid
persistent unemployment and contagion from Europe. Only 9
percent of Americans say they are confident the country will
avoid a recession, a Bloomberg National Poll showed on Sept. 14.  Pandit has targeted emerging markets for expansion, adding
branches and hiring overseas as he attempts to lead Citigroup
back from its near-collapse in 2008. The  U.S. bank  got 23
percent of its revenue from  Asia  in the three months ended June.  Chinese Expansion  Citigroup will persist with its expansion in  China  as the
second-largest economy maintains its rate of growth and the U.S.
recovery slows, Pandit said.  China “will continue to grow at a significant pace for an
extended period of time,” he said. Citigroup has increased its
branches in China to 43, and to 150 in greater China, he said,
adding that “we’re going to keep continuing on that path.”  Citigroup “will need to continue to grow in Asia to get the
dual benefit of overall growth levels in Asia and lower costs
than in the U.S. or Europe,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive
officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  The bank now earns more than half of its profit from
emerging markets, Pandit said in March. Citigroup’s consumer
banking unit earned $2.3 billion before taxes in emerging
markets in the first half of 2011 compared with $2.2 billion
during the same period in 2010, according to a company
presentation.  Pandit, who became CEO after Charles “Chuck” Prince was
ousted in November 2007, said the bank is committed to returning
capital to shareholders from 2012 as planned, probably by buying
back shares.  “We think our shares present compelling value, and
therefore we are going to do everything we can to try to use the
capital we have available to buy back shares on behalf of our
shareholders,” he said. “That’s a process we expect to start
in conjunction with the regulators in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in  Singapore  at  sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  