-- 
Pending U.S. Home Sales Decline 1.2% as Lower Prices Fail to Stoke Demand

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-29T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/pending-u-s-home-sales-decline-1-2-as-lower-prices-fail-to-stoke-demand.html
The number of contracts to
purchase previously owned U.S. homes fell in August, a sign
that lower prices and borrowing costs are doing little to stoke
demand.  The 1.2 percent decrease in the index of pending home
sales followed a 1.3 percent drop the previous month, the
National Association of Realtors said today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 2 percent drop, according to the median
of 43 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Unemployment at 9.1 percent and the acceleration of
foreclosure processing indicate it may take years to clear the
oversupply of houses, an obstacle for stabilizing the market.
The prospect of contract cancellations due to stricter
underwriting standards and low appraisals means some signings
may not translate into closings.  “With the job market also foundering, there is every
reason to think more buyers opted for the sidelines,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The
fundamentals also point to a difficult month for sales, even
though  mortgage rates  have come down appreciably.”  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 4
percent to an increase of 3.7 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Pending sales rose 13.1 percent from August
2010.  A Labor Department report today showed jobless claims fell
more than forecast last week as an atypical calendar alignment
made it more difficult for the government to adjust the data
for seasonal variations. Applications for benefits dropped by
37,000 to 391,000, the fewest since April. An agency official
said the data probably reflected a “slight mistiming” in the
seasonal factors used to modify the figures.  Second Quarter  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, faster than last month’s estimate and helped by
exports and spending on services.  The revised rise in gross domestic product compares with a
1 percent gain previously calculated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.2 percent, following a
0.4 percent increase in the first three months of the year.  Consumer confidence  slumped last week to the second-lowest
level on record as Americans grew more concerned with their
financial situation and the buying climate eroded.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 53
in the period ended Sept. 25 from minus 52.1 the prior week.
Similar readings were reached three times in first half of 2009
and surpassed only by all-time lows of minus 54 in November
2008 and again in January 2009.  By Region  Pending home sales fell in three of four regions, led by a
5.8 percent decrease in the Northeast. They dropped 3.7 percent
in the Midwest and 2.4 percent in West. In the South, they rose
2.6 percent.  “The biggest monthly decline was in the Northeast, which
was significantly disrupted by  Hurricane Irene ,” NAR chief
economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a statement today. “Broadly
speaking, contract signing activity has been holding in a
narrow range for many months.”  Today’s report showed an 88.6 index level for pending home
sales on a seasonally adjusted basis. A reading of 100 is
consistent with the average level of contracts in 2001, when
record-keeping began, and coincides with “historically
healthy” home-buying traffic, according to the NAR.  Actual Sales  Another Realtors’ report, on Sept. 21, showed sales of
previously owned homes, which make up about 95 percent of the
market, jumped in August by the most this year. Purchases
increased 7.7 percent to a 5.03 million annual rate, and 18
percent of real estate agents polled said they had at least one
pending contract canceled last month, up from 16 percent in
July.  The cancellations reflected mortgage applications that
were refused or because appraised home values were coming in
below the sales price, NAR said last week.  Pending sales track contract signings while previously
owned sales reflect the closings a month or two later.  The number of mortgage applications rose in the week ended
Sept. 23 as near record-low borrowing costs boosted
refinancing, data from the  Mortgage Bankers Association  showed
last week.  Existing-home sales have fallen since reaching an annual
peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that led to an 18-month
recession. Purchases fell to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last
year.  Default Notices  Default notices sent to delinquent U.S. homeowners surged
33 percent in August from the previous month, a sign that
lenders are speeding up the foreclosure process after almost a
year of delays, according to RealtyTrac Inc., the Irvine,
California-based data seller said in a Sept. 15 report.  Federal Reserve policy makers last week announced more
steps to spur growth and revive the residential real estate
industry, which since 1982 has aided every economic recovery
except the current one that began in June 2009.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that focuses on
first-time buyers, expects to have a profit in the fourth
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said in a Sept.
23 conference call with analysts. The builder has cut costs and
added communities in California and  Texas , where it expects
demand to improve. The market for new houses has been weakened
by a decline in credit availability, stalled job growth and
competition from cheaper existing homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  