-- 
Perry-Approved Texas Redistricting Maps Blocked Temporarily by U.S. Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/perry-approved-texas-electoral-maps-temporarily-blocked-by-federal-court.html
 A federal court put on hold
electoral maps approved by  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  for
congressional and state assembly districts, saying they weren’t
approved by the U.S. under the Voting Rights Act.  The order signed yesterday by U.S. District Judge Orlando
Garcia in  San Antonio  blocks the redistricting plans for the
Texas House of Representatives and the U.S. House of
Representatives. Garcia is part of a three-judge panel that has
weighed evidence on the redistricting plan in a case filed by
groups claiming the new maps put Latino candidates at a
disadvantage.  A different three-judge panel in Washington is also
reviewing the Texas redistricting plan. Last week, the  Justice
Department  in that case said the Texas plan “will diminish the
ability of citizens of the  United States , on account of race,
color or membership in a language minority group, to elect their
preferred candidates.”  “Today’s injunction is important in that it preserves our
opportunity to implement a court-ordered map should the pre-
clearance process in Washington be delayed to the point where it
takes us past the election filing deadlines,” Joaquin G. Avila,
a Seattle University law professor representing the Mexican
American Legislative Caucus of the Texas legislature, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  The caucus also filed papers yesterday asking the San
Antonio judicial panel to start creating new Congressional maps
for Texas.  Restatement Only  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said the state didn’t oppose the request to halt
implementation. She said yesterday’s ruling “merely restates
what the law already provides -- that Texas cannot implement its
new district maps until they have been pre-cleared.”  Texas sued the Obama administration in July seeking so-
called pre-clearance for the state’s new maps under the Voting
Rights Act, a step required of all states with a history of
voting-rights violations. Perry, who is running for the
Republican presidential nomination, signed the bill with the
election map created in June by Texas lawmakers.  The majority-Republican Legislature redrew electoral maps
after the state grew enough to gain four seats in Congress,
adding almost 4.3 million residents since 2000, according to the
2010 census.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-0360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
 Washington  case is Texas v. the U.S., 1:11-cv-01303, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 