-- 
Philippine Peso Drops as Europe Crisis Persists; Bonds Gain

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-29T08:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/philippine-peso-drops-as-europe-crisis-persists-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso retreated from
a one-week high on concern  Europe ’s failure to resolve its debt
crisis will weaken global expansion and damp demand for
emerging-market assets.  The currency was headed for its worst monthly loss since
May 2010 before Italy sells bonds and German lawmakers vote to
expand a European bailout fund today. Philippine bonds gained
after the government said its  budget deficit  this year will
likely be less than estimated.  “Clearly the sentiment is overall  risk reduction ,” said
Marcelo Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. in Manila. “Investors are recalibrating their portfolios
and cutting their positions in emerging-markets. There’s still a
lot of risk in Europe which may translate to weaker growth
across the world.”  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 43.625 per dollar as of the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , contributing to a 3.1 percent decline for
the month, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
43.445 yesterday, the strongest level since Sept. 21.  The local currency remains broadly competitive, central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday in  Tokyo , adding
that capital flows out of  Asia  are likely to prove temporary.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due
January 2018 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 5.15 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  The budget deficit may be less than the official forecast
of about 300 billion pesos ($6.9 billion), according to
Transportation and Communications Secretary Mar Roxas, who is
also a senior member of the government’s economic team. He spoke
today in Manila.  The government had a budget surplus of 9.22 billion pesos
last month, narrowing its eight-month deficit to 34.5 billion
pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  