-- 
Philippines May Achieve Investment Grade in 2012, Abad Says

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-29T09:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/philippines-may-win-investment-grade-rating-next-year-abad-says.html
The  Philippines  may achieve
investment grade ranking as early as next year after credit
rating companies signaled they were “satisfied” with the
country’s deficit-reduction progress, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said.  Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima and central bank governor
Amando Tetangco were among officials who met with analysts from
 Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
in the U.S. last week, Abad said in a televised briefing in
 Manila  today. They told the ratings companies that this year’s
budget shortfall will be within the 300-billion pesos ($6.9
billion) cap, he said.  “From the way they were fielding their questions, they
seem very satisfied with the developments both in terms of the
country’s monetary policy and fiscal consolidation program,’
Abad said. “There is a good chance that we may be able to get
that investment grade that has eluded us for some time.”  President  Benigno Aquino  won credit rating upgrades from
Fitch and Moody’s this year after taking steps to narrow the
 budget deficit  from a record in 2010. The government is
counting on higher rankings to lower borrowing costs, giving it
more funds to build roads, bridges and hospitals to bolster
growth to as much as 8 percent annually from 2011.  Fitch raised the country’s debt rating to BB+ on June 23,
bringing it to one step below investment grade. Earlier that
month, Moody’s upgraded the Philippines to Ba2, the highest
level since the start of 2005. S&P increased the nation’s
rating to the second-highest non-investment grade in November.  Philippine officials assured the ratings companies that
improving revenue collections and “prudent spending” mean that
the country doesn’t need new or higher taxes, Abad said.  The government had a  budget surplus  in August, helping
narrow the eight-month shortfall to 34.5 billion pesos from
228.104 billion pesos in the same period in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  