-- 
Pimco Drawn to Yields Spurs Best Bond Rally: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-30T07:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/pimco-drawn-to-yields-spurs-best-bond-rally-australia-credit.html
Australian sovereign and company
bonds are set for the steepest rally since 2008 as the highest
yields among developed nations untainted by  Europe ’s debt crisis
attract Pacific Investment Management Co.  Australian debt gained 4.8 percent this quarter as of Sept.
28, the most since the last three months of 2008, and beat all
markets tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch in the past 12
months. While Australian government yields fell 98 basis points
to average 4.05 percent, Bloomberg data show the only developed
markets with higher rates are at the center of Europe’s
struggles:  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain .  The developed world’s highest benchmark borrowing rate and
second-lowest fiscal burden are luring investors to Australia as
Greece faces default and European leaders seek to protect their
banks from contagion. Foreign buyers added A$15.9 billion ($15.5
billion) of government debt in the first half of 2011 to hold
74.7 percent of  Australia ’s bonds as of June 30, the most in 2
1/2 years, according to the central bank.  “There is an attraction in the Australian bond market for
offshore investors both from a credit perspective as a strong
sovereign and from a real yield perspective,” said Julian Foxall, a Sydney-based portfolio manager at the Australian unit
of Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund. “The
Australian government bond market stands out in terms of value
relative to other markets quite well. In an uncertain world
that’s a reasonable place to be.”  World Beaters  Australian sovereign bonds returned 9.8 percent the past 12
months, the most among 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes. Corporate notes gained 9.6 percent, the biggest advance
worldwide, Merrill Lynch data show.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year government notes plunged
99 basis points to 4.22 percent this quarter, the biggest drop
since 2008 and the first time since 2002 that yields have fallen
for three straight quarters. The rates declined nine straight
months, the longest stretch since at least 1978.  The premium the debt offers over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries was at 225 basis points unchanged from Dec. 31, while
the spread over German bunds has narrowed to 226 from 258.  Bonds are rallying as global financial turmoil spurs
declines in equity markets worldwide.  Haven From Turmoil  “Fixed income has proved a safer haven this year,” said
Chris Viol, a Sydney-based credit analyst at UBS AG. “With
volatility and uncertainty becoming the norm, investing part of
your portfolio in defensive fixed income makes sense.”  The S&P/ASX 200 Accumulation Index has lost 12 percent this
year.  Australia’s  bond market  had its most volatile weeks on
record in August as international concern grew that default by
Greece would harm the euro region’s core countries and tip the
global economy back into a recession.  The so-called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has dropped for the first quarter since the three
months ended June 30, 2010, trading at 97.24 U.S. cents as of
5:15 p.m. in Sydney today, from $1.0722 at the start of the
current period. The currency reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Almost two years into the debt crisis centered on Greece,
the U.S. is prodding European governments to show more urgency.
They are “trying to take responsible actions, but those actions
haven’t been quite as quick as they need to be,” President
 Barack Obama  said on Sept. 26.  The entire Australian bond curve, with maturities out to
2023, has been yielding less than the 4.75 percent policy rate
since Aug. 9 as futures traders bet the  Reserve Bank  will be
forced to lower borrowing costs.  ‘Very Expensive’  Government notes are vulnerable to a decline if Europe’s
leaders can bolster confidence they can contain financial
turmoil, said  Stephen Miller , a managing director in Sydney at
BlackRock Inc., which oversees about $3.7 trillion worldwide.  Australian sovereign debt looks “very, very, very
expensive,” he said. Miller holds close to the same amount of
government debt in his portfolios as required by benchmarks his
funds track, and is “slightly overweight” Australian corporate
bonds.  “The Aussie credit market, to some extent, is better
protected in an environment where risk sentiment deteriorates
because it does tend to be a short-maturity, high credit quality
market,” he said.  All the Australian corporate debt maturing in the next two
years rated by Moody’s Investors Service is investment-grade,
which reduces refinancing risk, the risk assessor wrote in a
Sept. 19 report. In contrast, 55 percent of the U.S. debt market
and 40 percent of  Canada ’s is made up of junk-rated securities,
Moody’s said.  “Australian corporate issuers are well positioned to ride
out further global uncertainty,” Moody’s wrote.  Expanding Economy  Australia’s economy will expand 1.84 percent in 2011 before
accelerating 4.25 percent in 2012, the fastest pace since 2007,
according to strategists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Gross
domestic product in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
will surge 9.3 percent this year, a separate survey shows.  Bonds sold by utility companies APA Group and SP AusNet
returned at least 1.9 percent in September, the most in Merrill
Lynch’s Australian Corporate & Collateralized Index. Australian
dollar-denominated bonds sold by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and AXA SA lost 1.7 percent and 1.3 percent, the data show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
surged 102 basis points since June 30 to 215 as of yesterday,
outpacing an 84 basis-point climb to 189 for the Markit iTraxx
Europe, CMA prices show. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index climbed 48 basis points to 139.  Swaps on the Australian sovereign jumped 41 basis points to
98, while U.S. contracts rose to 53 from 51, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  AMP Capital Investors, a Sydney-based firm with about A$30
billion of fixed-income assets under management, is “reasonably
cautious” on Australian corporate debt, including that of the
nation’s banks, because the problems in Europe affect access to
wholesale funding markets, according to Jeff Brunton, the
company’s head of credit markets.  “We certainly think that the fundamentals in Australia are
stronger than Europe and the U.S.,” Brunton said. Still,
“during these crises, that all becomes secondary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  