-- 
Pine Valley Golf Club Opens Doors to Bond Trader Who Played in U.S. Open

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/pine-valley-golf-club-opens-doors-to-bond-trader-who-played-in-u-s-open.html
Michael Barbosa competed in the  U.S.
Open  in June and will play in a tournament at Pine Valley Golf
Club, the top-ranked course in the world, this weekend. In
between, he’s been trading mortgage bonds for Peraza Capital.  Barbosa, 28, is among 120 amateurs beginning competition
today at the 87th Crump Cup, a match-play event held at the
private club in Clementon, New Jersey. Pine Valley is ranked as
the  best course in the world  by Golf Magazine, has Hall of Fame
golfer  Jack Nicklaus , former president  George H.W. Bush  and
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP senior managing principal James Dunne among its members.  Barbosa, who has spent the past year as a sales trader
specializing in mortgage-backed securities at Peraza, of  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said the sport is helping his career in
finance.  “You have a chance to be around a lot of successful guys
and see what they’re doing,” Barbosa said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a good opportunity for someone who’s 28 years
old and just making their way in the world.”  A Georgia Tech graduate, Barbosa started working at Peraza
while completing his law degree at Stetson University in DeLand,
Florida. He passed the bar exam in August, got married in March
and has since played a series of golf tournaments, including the
 Southern Amateur  near Tampa, Florida, the Baltusrol Invitational
in Springfield, New Jersey, and the  U.S. Amateur Championship  at
Erin Hills in  Wisconsin  last month.  Barbosa missed the cut for weekend play against the pros at
the U.S. Open, where he finished 24-over par for two rounds, 40
strokes behind winner  Rory McIlroy  at Congressional Country Club
in Bethesda,  Maryland .  ‘Phenomenal’  He said he’s eager for a second chance at Pine Valley,
where he lost in the quarterfinals of the 2010 Crump Cup. The
tournament features amateurs over the age of 25 and is named
after the course’s founder, Philadelphia hotelier George Crump.  The final matches are scheduled for Oct. 2, the only day of
the year the club is open for public viewing of a course
secluded amid 623 acres of scrub pines in southern  New Jersey 
that’s rated among the most difficult in the world.  Trip Kuehne, who finished second to Tiger Woods in the 1994
U.S. Amateur championship, has participated in the Crump Cup and
said the golf course is what makes the tournament so special.  “To walk in the locker rooms there for all the industrial
titans and famous golfers, and see your name forever etched at
Pine Valley really means something,” said Kuehne, 39, who runs
the hedge fund firm  Double Eagle Capital Management  in Irving,
 Texas . “It’s a phenomenal place.”  Camaraderie  The participants stay in cabins and houses on-site, which
is part of the event’s camaraderie, Barbosa said. Among his
fellow competitors this year is Tom Nolan, the senior vice
president of golf and tennis at Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. The two
struck up a friendship at previous events and Nolan was
Barbosa’s caddie at the U.S. Open.  “Regardless of how busy our lives are or how little we
play, guys, when they get an invitation to the Crump Cup, they
block those days,” Barbosa said. “If you’re going to play one
event during the year, you want it to be the Crump Cup.”  While Barbosa admits he’s been frustrated with the state of
his game since the summer, he said he realizes how lucky he is.
He has the opportunity to get out of the office and compete on
some of the world’s best courses, as well as teeing it up with
McIlroy,  Phil Mickelson ,  Luke Donald  and other top professionals
at the U.S. Open -- golf’s second major championship -- three
months ago.  “Part of it is if you have an accomplishment, your
expectations go up,” Barbosa said. “And golf is a funny game -
- it seems when your expectations go up, your quality of play
goes down. But I have nothing to complain about. I’ve gotten to
do things that I’d only dreamed about in the past six or eight
months. So it’s been a great year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  