-- 
Plosser Says Easing Moves May Hurt Fed’s Credibility, Fail to Boost Growth

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-29T15:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/plosser-says-latest-easing-moves-may-undermine-fed-credibility.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank may
be undermining its own credibility by pushing forward with
monetary easing that will do little to boost growth.  “The actions taken in August and September tend to
undermine the Fed’s credibility by giving the impression that we
think such policies can have a major impact on the speed of the
recovery,” Plosser said today in a speech in Radnor,
 Pennsylvania . “It is my assessment that they will not.”  Plosser’s remarks are his first since he joined Fed
district bank presidents  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  in dissenting from a Fed decision
for a second straight month. The regional Fed bank presidents
pose the most opposition within the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in almost 19 years, opposing last week a plan to sell
$400 billion of short-term Treasury securities and buy $400
billion of longer-term securities.  The policy, so-called Operation Twist, is likely to reduce
long-term rates by “less than 20 basis points” and “the pass-
through to the rates at which consumers and businesses actually
borrow is likely to be much less,” Plosser said at a Business
Leaders Forum at the Villanova School of Business. “I am
skeptical that this will do much to spur businesses to hire or
consumers to spend.”  Plosser, Fisher and Kocherlakota also dissented when U.S.
central bankers last month chose to hold  interest rates  near
zero until at least mid-2013. That replaced their prior pledge
to keep rates low for an “extended period.”  ‘Cautious and Vigilant’  “In addition to having little effect, the actions come
with significant potential costs,” Plosser said. “We should be
cautious and vigilant that our previous accommodative policies
do not translate into a steady rise in inflation over the medium
term even while the unemployment rate remains elevated.”  Fed officials weighing in on the policy this week include
Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , who said the central bank’s use of
tools has been “completely appropriate,” and Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren , who said he was “very supportive” of
the Fed’s actions.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said this week that
Operation Twist should have a “modest positive impact,” while
 Kansas City ’s Tom Hoenig said it may “introduce new
complexities and risk new unintended consequences.”  ‘Open Mind’  Plosser said to reporters after the speech that he
“retains an open mind” on the idea of lowering the 0.25
percent rate the Fed pays financial firms on excess reserves.  “Reducing the interest rate on excess reserves at least in
my mind would be a more traditional monetary policy action,”
Plosser said. The Fed may not want to take such a step because
of the uncertain effects from lowering the rate to zero,
including possible damage to overnight lending markets, he said.  Plosser said he opposed the Fed’s decision, also announced
last week, to reinvest its portfolio of housing debt back into
mortgage-backed securities. The Fed had previously been
replacing the housing debt with  Treasury securities .  The new reinvestment scheme is a “credit allocation scheme
designed to help one sector,” he said. The policy halts the
process of normalizing the Fed’s balance sheet, he said. “As a
result, when the time comes, it’s going to make our exit problem
just that much more difficult.”  Job Market Boom  Bonds have rallied on the central bank’s actions, with the
yield on the 10-year Treasury at 2 percent at 11:04 a.m. in  New
York  trading, not far from the record low close of 1.72 percent
on Sept. 22. Low interest rates haven’t sparked a job market
boom. In August, the economy added no jobs and the  unemployment
rate  remained unchanged at 9.1 percent. Economists in a
Bloomberg Survey predict the rate will remain at 9.1 percent
this month.  Plosser said he would consider further monetary stimulus
“if deflationary fears were to become a real threat again.” If
financial market disruptions from the European debt crisis
became significant, the Fed may need to “respond in its role of
lender of last resort,” he said.  “I do not see either of these scenarios in my forecast,”
said Plosser, 63, a former professor and business-school dean at
the University of Rochester in New York. He joined the
Philadelphia Fed as its chief in 2006.  Gradually Accelerate  Plosser said he forecasts economic growth of around 2
percent in 2011, down from the 3 percent to 3.5 percent he
expected earlier in the year. Growth should gradually accelerate
to around 3 percent next year, he said.  “I do anticipate that with many commodity prices now
leveling off or falling, and inflation expectations relatively
stable, inflation will moderate in the near term,” he said.
Unemployment will probably change little this year and decline
to 8 percent to 8.5 percent by the end of 2012, he said.
Inflation will decline to 2 percent next year or “maybe a
little bit more,” he said to reporters.  “I’m not concerned about inflation in the near-term,”
Plosser said. He said that market-based measures of inflation
expectations, such as the difference between inflation protected
Treasury securities and regular Treasury securities, may be
distorted by a “flight to quality” into heavily-traded
Treasuries.  Plosser renewed his calls for the Fed to adopt an explicit
numerical target for inflation. He dismissed an idea similar to
that proposed by Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  to tolerate
inflation higher than 2 percent to help bring unemployment down
more quickly.  “I am very wary of such a strategy because I don’t believe
we can control inflation expectations that precisely,” he said.
“It is at least questionable whether we could credibly raise
inflation expectations. And were we able to do so, how easily
would we be able to bring them back down?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  