-- 
Pound Advances Versus Dollar on Report SNB to Raise Holdings; Gilts Gain

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-09-29T16:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/pound-erases-decline-against-euro-on-report-snb-to-raise-sterling-holdings.html
The pound rose to a one-week high
versus the dollar and erased a decline against the euro on
speculation the  Swiss National Bank  will boost the percentage of
sterling holdings in its portfolio.  The U.K. currency reversed losses versus the franc after
Reuters quoted a senior portfolio manager at the Swiss central
bank as saying it will probably have a higher proportion of
sterling assets in a year’s time.  Werner Abegg , a spokesman for
the SNB, declined to comment. Ten-year gilts rose, snapping a
four-day drop, amid speculation the Bank of England will add
economic stimulus by buying bonds as soon as next month.  “There are some newswire reports suggesting the SNB would
start to increase its weighting of sterling within its
reserves,” said  Ian Stannard , London-based head of European
currency strategy at Morgan Stanley. “That’s giving sterling
some support.”  The pound gained 0.7 percent to $1.5671 at 5:10 p.m. in
 London , after reaching $1.5716, the strongest level since Sept.
21. The currency was little changed at 86.99 pence per euro,
after weakening as much as 0.4 percent. Sterling rose 0.1
percent to 1.4031 francs.  An increase in the SNB’s holdings of sterling assets
probably wouldn’t boost the British currency beyond a “knee-
jerk” reaction, according to Sara Yates, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Barclays Plc in London.  ‘Big Impact’  “Sterling is such a liquid currency that even at the
margin it’s unlikely to have a big impact,” London-based Yates
said in a telephone interview. “It would need to be a
significant change to have any meaningful impact.”  Sterling has strengthened 2.6 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
which compares the foreign exchange of 10 developed nations. The
dollar has risen 5.4 percent.  Two-year gilt yields fell the most in a week after  Bank of
England  Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said policy makers have the
tools available to provide additional “monetary loosening.”  U.K. house prices were little changed in September and
“downside risks” to the  property market  have increased as
economic prospects weaken,  Nationwide Building Society  said. A
separate report showed mortgage approvals rose last month.  “Given the potential magnitude of announcement effects, it
would make sense for gilts to remain relatively supported,”
said  Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in London. The central bank is likely to start a so-called
quantitative-easing program with 50 billion pounds of debt
purchases in November, he said.  The 10-year gilt yield fell two basis points to 2.53
percent. The two-year rate declined one basis point to 0.58
percent after dropping as much as five basis points, the most
since Sept. 22.  Gilts have returned 7.8 percent in the third quarter, more
than the 7.1 percent increase in German bunds and 6.1 percent
gain from U.S. Treasuries, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  