-- 
Facebook Web-User Tracking Probe Is Requested by Washington Privacy Group

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-29T19:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/privacy-group-to-urge-ftc-to-probe-facebook-tracking-of-users-after-logoff.html
Ten public-interest groups asked
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to investigate Facebook Inc.’s
tracking of  Internet users  after they log off the world’s most
popular social-networking service.  The  Electronic Privacy Information Center  and nine other
groups, in a letter filed with the FTC today, also asked it to
examine whether Facebook’s new Ticker and Timeline features
boost privacy risks for users by combining biographical
information in an easily accessible format.  “We would like the FTC to investigate the extent to which
Facebook’s recent changes and its secret tracking of users after
they have logged out constitute unfair or deceptive business
practice,” said David Jacobs, consumer protection fellow for
EPIC, in a telephone interview today.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is adding
features to entice users to spend more time on the site and
avoid losing them to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which also
offer video and music services. Last week, Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  unveiled new ways for members
to use the social network to share music, movies, television
shows, news and activities such as cooking and exercising.  Blog Posting  The letter to the FTC references a Sept. 25  blog posting  by
Australian blogger Nik Cubrilovic, who wrote that Facebook
placed so-called “cookies” on users’ browsers that tracked
their Internet activity even after they logged out of Facebook.
Although Facebook moved to resolve the issue, “it’s unclear how
complete the fix is,” Jacobs said.  “There was no security or privacy breach,” Andrew Noyes,
a Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Facebook did not
store or use any information it should not have.”  Claudia Bourne Farrell, a FTC spokeswoman, confirmed that
the agency received the letter today. She declined to comment
further.  Facebook has “no interest in tracking people,” engineer
Gregg Stefancik said in a recent blog post. “We do not share or
sell the information we see when you visit a website with a
Facebook social plugin to third parties and we do not use it to
deliver ads to you.”  The letter to the FTC is also signed by public interest
groups the  American Civil Liberties Union , the American Library
Association, the Bill of Rights Defense Committee, the Center
for Digital Democracy, the Center for Media and Democracy,
Consumer Action, Consumer Watchdog, PrivacyActivism and Privacy
Times.  ‘Partial Fix’  “Facebook has been tracking the Internet activity of users
even after they have logged out of Facebook,” the consumer
groups state in the letter. “Facebook has been engaging in
post-log-out tracking for at least a year, and only issued a
partial fix after facing intense criticism, indicating an
unwillingness to respect consumer privacy without external
pressure.”  Noyes said people who try the new features announced by
Facebook last week will “find that they have complete control
over whether their information is shared and with whom.”  “We’ve invested heavily, including consulting several
privacy organizations, to build an authorization dialogue that
is obvious, easy to understand, and has a privacy setting built
in,” Noyes said.  EPIC previously urged the FTC to investigate Facebook’s
privacy practices, including default privacy settings and its
facial-recognition feature.  “Facebook is misleading its users and also policymakers,”
Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital
Democracy, who helped to write the letter, said in an e-mail.
“The new changes are designed to pump big ad dollars into
Facebook just prior to its IPO.”  Facebook expects to be required by U.S. regulators to
disclose financial results by April 30 if it doesn’t sell shares
to the public by then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 