-- 
U.S. Wants Rajaratnam Info Made Public

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-30T01:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/prosecutors-ask-federal-judge-to-unseal-rajaratnam-medical-information.html
Federal prosecutors asked a judge
to unseal medical information that Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge
fund manager convicted of directing a massive  insider trading 
ring, is using to argue for a reduced sentence.  The public has a constitutional right to view the documents
because Rajaratnam is using them to support his argument for
leniency, prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
today in a court filing in  Manhattan .  “While individuals have a right to medical privacy,
Rajaratnam waived such rights, at least in part, by arguing that
his medical conditions justify departing or varying from the
sentencing guidelines,” prosecutors said in the filing. “The
public has a First Amendment right to see the arguments and
declarations that both parties submitted to this court about the
impact of his medical condition on sentencing.”  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May on all 14 criminal
counts against him. Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million by
trading with inside information in 11 stocks, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies
Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Prosecutors have asked Holwell to give Rajaratnam, the co-
founder of Galleon Group LLC, from 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years in
prison. Rajaratnam’s lawyers, calling the government’s proposal
“grotesquely severe,” asked Holwell for a sentence
“substantially below” that. Rajaratnam is scheduled to be
sentenced Oct. 13.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on his client’s medical condition or on the government’s court
filing. Rajaratnam hasn’t disclosed the nature of any illnesses
he’s using to argue for a lower sentence.  Request to Unseal  In their request today, prosecutors asked Holwell to make
public a letter Rajaratnam’s lawyers sent to him arguing for
leniency based on his medical condition, a doctor’s declaration
describing Rajaratnam’s illnesses, declarations from the
director of a non-profit criminal justice organization and a
former Bureau of Prisons employee and two letters from
Rajaratnam’s doctors to the judge. Prosecutors are also seeking
to unseal a declaration they filed by a doctor for the U.S.
Bureau of Prisons and two declarations sent by Rajaratnam in
response.  In the filing, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Streeter,
 Reed Brodsky  and Andrew Michaelson argued that the Bureau of
Prisons can provide Rajaratnam with adequate medical care, that
he committed most of his crimes after he knew of his medical
condition and that the case requires a significant sentence
“regardless of Rajaratnam’s medical condition.”  No Reduction  They also argued that if Holwell takes Rajaratnam’s
condition into account in sentencing, the judge should make
public “the general nature of his medical conditions and his
long-term prognosis.”  In its court papers, the government cited various criminal
defendants who were found by other federal judges not to merit
reduced sentences because they had diseases and medical
conditions, including cancer, heart conditions and even a brain
aneurism.  “Rajaratnam’s medical conditions are no more private or
embarrassing than the conditions discussed in the cases upon
which he relies,” prosecutors said.  The U.S. noted that  Mark Kurland , 71, co-founder of New
Castle Funds and a co-defendant convicted of insider trading in
the Galleon probe, suffered from prostate cancer, diabetes and
other maladies. U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  rejected his
request for a downward departure based on these health issues,
the prosecutors said.  ‘Serious Problems’  In a sentencing memorandum filed with Holwell Aug. 9,
Rajaratnam’s lawyers argued the judge should consider
unspecified “serious medical problems present to an unusual
degree.”  “As the court is aware from the confidential
information submitted to the probation officer, Mr. Rajaratnam
faces several significant and challenging medical issues at the
present time, which are expected to worsen in the near future,”
his lawyers wrote. “The Bureau of Prisons will simply not be
able to manage these issues and provide the care that Mr.
Rajaratnam requires. Any term of incarceration would seriously
threaten his well-being and be life-threatening.”  During jury deliberations in the trial, Holwell excused
Rajaratnam from the court during part of jury deliberations,
without disclosing any reason for his absence. Rajaratnam’s
lawyers later released a statement saying he had emergency foot
surgery to treat a bacterial infection.  The court docket in Rajaratnam’s case shows Holwell sealed
at least 38 documents filed with the court. He also sealed some
of the hearings and court transcripts in the case. During jury
deliberations, Holwell held secret hearings relating to
Rajaratnam’s foot surgery, during which he spoke with the
defendant on the phone, and to his decision to excuse a juror
who said she had to leave the panel for medical reasons.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 