-- 
QPR Co-Owner Bhatia Keen to Sign David Beckham in November: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-29T10:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/qpr-co-owner-bhatia-keen-to-sign-david-beckham-in-november-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  QPR Beckons?  Amit Bhatia, the co-owner of  Queens Park Rangers , wants to
offer former England midfielder  David Beckham  a contract in
November when his agreement with the  Los Angeles Galaxy  expires,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  “Would we be prepared to offer him a chance to play for
QPR? The answer to that question is yes, we would be willing to
make him an offer,” the newspaper quoted Bhatia as saying.  QPR isn’t the only club interested in the 36-year-old
midfielder, the newspaper said. Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp
last month said “I don’t think you would ever say no to David
Beckham.”  De Jong on Tevez  Manchester City  player Nigel de Jong said the club needs to
resolve its problems with striker  Carlos Tevez  soon or it may
undermine its season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  City yesterday suspended striker Tevez for as long as two
weeks while it investigates his alleged refusal to play in a 2-0
Champions League loss at Bayern Munich earlier this week.  “You can’t continue talking about the same thing for weeks
and weeks,” the newspaper quoted the Netherlands midfielder as
saying.  Diouf to  Russia ?  Former  Blackburn  forward El-Hadji Diouf may join Russian
side Anzhi Makhachkala and snub interest from three English
clubs, the Daily Mirror reported.  Wigan, Blackpool and Doncaster all want to sign the player,
who is a free agent, the newspaper said.  Anzhi, which is funded by Russian billionaire Suleyman
Kerimov, has already signed players including  Roberto Carlos  and
Samuel Eto’o.  Blackburn Chasing Lago  Blackburn may offer as much as 3 million pounds ($4.7
billion) for Celta Vigo left-back Roberto Lago, the  Sun 
reported. The 26-year-old Spaniard is also wanted by Villarreal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 