-- 
Rand Tumbles, Set for Worst Quarter in Three Years on Rate-Cut Speculation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-29T14:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rand-weakens-set-for-worst-quarter-in-three-years-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
The rand weakened for the first day
in five against the dollar, heading for its worst quarter in
more than three years after credit growth and money-supply data
fueled bets of a central  bank rate  cut in coming months.  South Africa’s currency dropped 0.6 percent to 7.8553 as of
4:06 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline this quarter to
14 percent, the most since the first three months of 2008.
Against the euro, the rand sank 0.8 percent to 10.7125, for a
three-month retreat of 8.4 percent.  Credit growth accelerated to 6.1 percent in August, from
5.7 percent in July, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said today.
That’s still not enough to signal a recovery in consumer demand,
BNP Paribas SA analysts led by London-based Bartosz Pawlowksi
said in an e-mailed comment. The central bank will “act
appropriately” to counter an economic slowdown, Governor Gill
Marcus said on Sept. 22.  “Money-supply data showed continued acceleration but in
our view it is still not enough to spark inflationary
pressures,” the BNP analysts wrote. “The overall effect is
likely to be an increase of the rate-cut expectations” and “a
renewed weakening” of the rand.  Producer inflation quickened 9.6 percent in August, the
fastest pace since December 2008, from 8.9 percent the previous
month, Statistics  South Africa  reported. Even so, the central
bank probably won’t raise its rate, Tshepo Mosepele, an analyst
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by e-mail.  “We maintain that the repo will remain on hold this
year,” Mosepele said. “However, there is the risk of further
rate cuts, particularly if the growth outlook here and abroad
deteriorates further.”  German Vote  The rand stayed weaker after German lawmakers voted in
favor of expanding a bail-out fund for debt-stricken euro-region
nations, and as reports showed the  U.S. economy  grew faster than
estimated and jobless claims fell last week.  “Participants remain concerned about the EU debt situation
and the global growth outlook,” Standard Bank analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note.
“Risky assets remain under pressure.”  The rand may target 8.19 per dollar in the “short term,”
the Standard Bank analysts wrote. The likelihood of the rand
trading at 8.19 per dollar within the next month is 60 percent,
according to calculations based on options prices monitored by
Bloomberg.  Bonds declined for a second day after yields fell to the
lowest in a week on Sept. 27. The 6.75 percent securities due
2021 dropped 24 cents to 90.59 rand, pushing the yield up four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.196 percent.  Bond Purchases  “Offshore investors still seem to be selling into any
local bond strength,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet wrote in a research note. “The rally in bonds might
struggle from these levels.”  Foreign investors were net sellers of 4.9 billion rand
($623 million) of South African bonds in the first three days of
the week, according to JSE Ltd. data. Before this week, foreign
investors had purchased a net 41.5 billion rand of South African
debt this year, driving the yield on 10-year notes to a four-
year low on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  