-- 
Rays, Cardinals Win Wild-Card Spots on Last Day of Baseball Regular Season

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-29T06:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rays-cardinals-win-wild-card-spots-on-last-day-of-baseball-regular-season.html
The Tampa Bay Rays and  St. Louis
Cardinals  won on the final day of the regular season to earn
 Major League Baseball ’s wild-card playoff spots.  Evan Longoria’s home run, his second of the game and 31st
this season, capped the Rays’ comeback from a 7-0 eighth-inning
deficit as they beat the New York Yankees 8-7 in 12 innings.
Three minutes earlier, the  Boston Red Sox  had surrendered two
runs to the  Baltimore Orioles  with two outs in the ninth to lose
4-3 and miss out on the postseason for the second straight year.  “When I hit the ball I knew it was going to be fair,”
Longoria said in a televised interview. “We were out here for
the better part of five hours, and then everything happened in
the final seconds.”  In the National League, the Cardinals defeated the Houston
Astros 8-0 and then celebrated more than an hour later when they
secured a postseason place as the  Atlanta Braves  lost 4-3 in 13
innings to the  Philadelphia Phillies , who set a franchise record
with their 102nd victory of the season.  The Cardinals, who trailed Atlanta by 10 1/2 games on Aug.
25, won 23 of their last 32 games. The Braves ended the season
with five straight losses.  In missing out on the playoffs, the  Red Sox  set a major
league record by giving up a nine-game lead over the Rays during
the last month of the season, according to the Elias Sports
Bureau. The biggest lead previously relinquished in September
was by the 1995 Angels, who were overtaken by the  Seattle
Mariners  after leading them by 7 1/2 games through August.  Boston ’s seven wins in 27 games this month was its worst
performance since it finished 1952 with the same record in
September.  ‘Worst Collapses’  “We’ll go down in history as one of the worst collapses,”
left fielder Carl Crawford told reporters. “It definitely
doesn’t feel good to be part of that.”  The scale of Boston’s collapse eclipsed a similar demise
for the Braves, who led  St. Louis  by 8 1/2 games on Aug. 31
before winning nine of 27 games this month.  At Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,  Florida , the Rays
fell behind 5-0 in the second inning when Mark Teixeira hit a
grand slam. Teixeira added a solo home run in the fourth and
Andruw Jones made it 7-0 for the Yankees with a solo shot in the
fifth.  It stayed that way until the eighth inning, when the Rays
scored six runs, including a three-run homer by Longoria. Pinch-
hitter Dan Johnson tied it with a two-out solo home run in the
ninth.  Longoria ended the game and sent the Rays into the playoffs
in the 12th with his shot to left field.  AL Matchups  Tampa Bay  will begin the best-of-five AL Division Series at
the  Texas Rangers , while the Yankees host the  Detroit Tigers  in
Game 1. Both series start tomorrow.  At Camden Yards in Baltimore, the Red Sox gave up a 3-2
lead in the final inning. Nolan Reimold hit a run-scoring
ground-rule double to tie the game and then scored on Robert Andino’s two-out single for the win.  “I’d been frustrated all night,” said Andino. “We got
good pitches and didn’t do nothing with them.”  Dustin Pedroia had a run-scoring single in the third to
give the Red Sox a 1-0 lead and then hit his 21st home run of
the season to make it 3-2 in the fifth.  At Minute Maid Park in Houston, Chris Carpenter struck out
11 and gave up two hits in his 15th career shutout for the
Cardinals, who jumped out to a 5-0 first-inning lead.  ‘Nothing to Lose’  “We had nothing to lose,” Carpenter (11-9) told
reporters. “We were already out of it. People were telling us
we were done. We decided to go out and play and not embarrass
ourselves and do what we can. We played ourselves back into
it.”  The Cardinals will begin the postseason on Oct. 1 at
Philadelphia, while the Arizona Diamondbacks travel to
 Milwaukee .  At Turner Field in Atlanta, Hunter Pence hit a run-scoring
infield single in the 13th inning to give the Phillies the win
and knock the Braves out of the postseason.  “This is tough,” Braves catcher Brian McCann said. “This
is one of the worst feelings I’ve ever had coming off a baseball
field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  