-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Rise Before Central Bank’s Debt-Buying Announcement

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-29T21:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/treasuries-head-for-quarterly-gain-before-pending-home-sales.html
Treasury 30-year bonds advanced for
the first time in five days as the  Federal Reserve  prepared to
announce its schedule of purchases of longer-maturing debt under
Operation Twist.  U.S. seven-year securities dropped after the government’s
$29 billion auction drew a record low yield. Treasuries were
headed for their biggest quarterly rally since the depths of the
financial crisis in 2008 on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and a sluggish U.S. economy will undermine the global
recovery.  “There’s some set-up for when the Fed comes in, and there
may be some anticipation with the announcement due tomorrow,”
said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in New York at  Societe Generale ,
which as one of the 20 primary dealers is obligated to
participate in auctions. “It may have a little psychological
impact.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.05 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent
securities due in August 2041 increased 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 113 18/32.  The long-bond yields have increased 15 basis points this
week after dropping 41 basis points last week following the
Fed’s announcement of Operation Twist in the biggest five-day
decrease in almost three years.  Treasuries have returned 5.9 percent this quarter, the most
since the last three months of 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Thirty-year bonds have returned
27 percent since June 30.  Seven-Year Auction  At today’s seven-year debt offering, the securities drew a
yield of 1.496 percent, which was lower than the previous record
of 1.580 percent set at the Aug. 25 offering. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.02, compared with an average
of 2.79 for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 41.6 percent of the notes,
compared with 51.7 percent last month and the 10-sale average of
46.8 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.6 percent,
compared with the average of 8.2 percent.  At yesterday’s $35 billion five-year sale, the notes drew a
record low auction yield of 1.015 percent. A $35 billion sale of
two-year notes on Sept. 27 drew the highest demand in a year.  Seven-Year Notes  Seven-year note yields increased two basis points to 1.47
percent after advancing five basis points before the auction.
Benchmark 10-year note yields gained one basis point to 1.99
percent after earlier rising five basis points. Yields on 10-
year notes fell last week to 1.6714 percent, the lowest in Fed
data beginning in 1953.  “The concessions that developed ahead of the auction were
helpful,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New
York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “The auction was decent.”  The central bank announced on Sept. 21 that it would buy
$400 billion of  U.S. debt  with maturities of six to 30 years
through June while selling an equal amount of securities
maturing in three years or less to support growth. The Fed is
scheduled to publish a schedule of purchases tomorrow.  Seven-year securities are the first issue likely to benefit
directly from Fed debt buying, Wrightson ICAP analysts said
today in a research note.  October Schedule  “The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries in the six- to
eight-year range three times a month, which means that the
October schedule that will be published tomorrow should include
a coupon pass for which this issue would be eligible by the
second week of October at the latest,” according to Wrightson,
a unit of ICAP Plc that specializes in U.S. government finance.  Treasury notes dropped earlier today after the Commerce
Department reported that the  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent
pace in the second quarter, faster than estimated last month.
The revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 1
percent gain previously calculated by the government.  German lawmakers approved an expansion of the euro-area
rescue fund, clearing the way for European officials to focus on
what next steps may be needed to stem the debt crisis.  U.S. notes pared their decline just before the auction
after  Fitch Ratings  cut  New Zealand ’s long-term foreign-currency
issuer default rating to AA from AA+. Fitch cited a high level
of debt and unfavorable economic growth. The long-term local-
currency rating was cut to AA+ from AAA. The outlook on both
ratings is stable.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.24 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
banks and securities firms, with the most recent forecasts given
the heaviest weightings. On Aug. 12, yields were projected to
end 2011 at 2.72 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  