-- 
Treasury Seven-Year Notes Drop; Auction Draws Record Low Yield

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-29T17:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/treasury-seven-year-notes-drop-auction-draws-record-low-yield.html
Treasury seven-year notes dropped
after the government’s $29 billion auction as the securities
produced a record low yield that was higher than forecast.  The notes drew a yield of 1.496 percent, which was lower
than the previous record of 1.580 percent set at the Aug. 25
offering. The average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers was 1.489 percent.
The securities are the first issue likely to benefit directly
from the Federal Reserve program of debt buying known as
Operation Twist, according to Wrightson ICAP.  “Some of the flight to quality is coming out of the market
as better sentiment toward risk assets has entered the market,”
said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New
York at Morgan Stanley, before the auction. “Investors still
need yield.” As one of 20 primary dealers, the firm is
obligated to participate in U.S. debt offerings.  Yields on current seven-year note gained one basis point,
0.01 percentage point, to 1.47 percent at 1:05 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. Yields on benchmark
10-year notes were little changed at 1.99 percent.  At today’s auction, the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3.02, compared with an average of 2.79 for the
previous 10 sales.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 41.6 percent of the notes,
compared with 51.7 percent last month.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.6 percent,
compared with the 10-auction average of 8.2 percent.  The central bank announced on Sept. 21 that it would buy
$400 billion of  U.S. debt  with maturities of six to 30 years
through June while selling an equal amount of securities
maturing in three years or less to support growth under what is
known as Operation Twist. The Fed is scheduled to publish a
schedule of purchases tomorrow.  “The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries in the 6- to 8-
year range three times a month, which means that the October
schedule that will be published tomorrow should include a coupon
pass for which this issue would be eligible by the second week
of October at the latest, said Wrightson, a unit of ICAP Plc
specializing in U.S. government finance, in a research note.  Note Offerings  Today’s offering is the third of three auctions of U.S.
notes this week totaling $99 billion. Yesterday’s $35 billion
auction of five-year notes drew a record low yield. The auction
of the same amount of two-year notes on Sept. 27 produced the
highest demand in a year.  Treasuries have rallied on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and
a stalled  U.S. economy  will undermine the global recovery. U.S.
debt securities have returned 5.8 percent in the third quarter,
the most since the depths of the financial crisis in the fourth
quarter of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. They have gained 1.1 percent in September.  New Zealand  had its long-term foreign-currency issuer
default rating cut to “AA” from “AA+” by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited a high level of debt and unfavorable economic
growth. The long-term local-currency rating was cut to ‘AA+’
from “AAA’. The outlook on both ratings is stable.  Thirty-Year Bonds  Yields on 30-year bonds have increased 17 basis points this
week after dropping 41 basis points last week after the Fed’s
announcement, the most in almost three years.  “There is scope for yields to go lower again,” said  David
Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .
“We will have the Fed buying at the ultra-long end of the curve,
which should support longer-dated bonds.”  Treasury notes dropped today after the Commerce Department
reported that the U.S. economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter, faster than estimated last month. The revised
increase in gross domestic product compares with a 1 percent
gain previously calculated by the government.  German lawmakers approved an expansion of the euro-area
rescue fund, clearing the way for European officials to focus on
what next steps may be needed to stem the debt crisis.  U.S. 10-year yields will increase to 2.24 percent by the
end of the year, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  