-- 
Treasuries Head for Quarterly Gain Before Pending Home Sales

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-29T05:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/treasuries-set-for-biggest-quarterly-gain-since-08-before-home-sales-data.html
Treasuries headed for the biggest
quarterly gain since 2008 before an industry report on U.S. home
sales that economists said will be the latest evidence that
America’s economy is struggling.  The government is scheduled to sell $29 billion of seven-
year debt today, after a five-year sale yesterday drew a record-
low yield, reflecting demand for the relative safety of debt as
the economy slows and  Greece  struggles to avoid a default. The
 Federal Reserve  is next month scheduled to begin a program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries, a set of measures that has been dubbed
Operation Twist by economists.  “Operation Twist will stop yields from rising,” said
Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets
Japan Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “The
economy isn’t expanding. There’s no other place to park money.”  Ten-year rates were little changed at 1.99 percent as of
1:50 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 2.125 percent security maturing in August 2021 changed hands
at 101 5/32. The yield slid to 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23, the
least ever based on Fed data.  Treasuries have returned 5.9 percent this quarter, and they
are up 8.3 percent this year, based on Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has
handed investors a 12 percent loss in 2011 after accounting for
reinvested dividends.  Japan ’s 10-year yield was unchanged at 1 percent. The
government debt market has returned 1.2 percent this quarter and
1.7 percent in 2011, Merrill Lynch data show.  Pending Home Sales  U.S. pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
dwellings, decreased 2 percent in August, after falling 1.3
percent the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
will report, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  At yesterday’s auction, the five-year notes drew a yield of
1.015 percent, compared with the previous record of 1.029
percent on Aug. 24. A $35 billion sale of two-year notes on
Sept. 27 drew the highest demand in a year.  U.S. and German 10-year yields are about the same, a sign
to Yoshiyuki Suzuki at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. that
Treasuries don’t offer value.  Different Situation  Germany ’s rates should be low as investors seek bonds in
 Europe ’s largest economy as a haven from the region’s debt
crisis, he said.  “The situation is very different in the U.S.,” said
Suzuki, who helps oversee the equivalent of $71.9 billion as the
Tokyo-based head of fixed income. “There is no crisis.”  German lawmakers are scheduled to vote today on a plan to
expand the euro-area rescue fund, allowing it to buy bonds of
distressed states and offer emergency loans to governments.  Ten-year German bunds yield 2.01 percent, or two basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries. As recently as
July, the German rate was 33 basis points less than the U.S.
yield.  U.S. 10-year rates will rise to 2.5 percent by year-end,
Suzuki said. A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies projects the figure will be 2.24 percent, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  The U.S. seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.49
percent in pre-auction trading, versus 1.58 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on Aug. 25, which was a record
low.  Investors bid for 2.76 times the amount offered last month,
compared with an average of 2.79 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the investor class that includes central
banks outside the U.S., purchased 51.7 percent of the
securities, the most at the monthly sales since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  