-- 
Treasury Says Italy Can Sell $54.5 Billion in State Assets

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-29T16:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/tremonti-says-italy-is-kicking-off-great-structural-reform-.html
Italy  can quickly raise as much as
40 billion euros ($54.5 billion) of assets to help reduce
 Europe ’s second-biggest debt that now tops 1.9 trillion euros,
according to documents published today.  The government in the short term could sell as much as 30
billion euros in real estate and 10 billion euros in carbon
permits, according to a  document  posted on the  Finance
Ministry ’s website. The funds could be used to cut Europe’s
second-biggest debt, which was about equal to the total value of
all government assets, state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti SpA estimated in a separate  report  based on 2004 data.  “The scope of the plan seems very insufficient,” said
Alberto Mingardi, director general of the Bruno Leoni Institute,
a Turin-based research center. “I don’t understand what carbon
permits have to do with privatizations and why the government is
throwing it into the mix. It’s also striking that there’s not
even the sale of a single stake in a state-owned company.”  Italy, whose credit rating was cut one level by  Standard &
Poor’s  on Sept. 19, is scrambling to reduce debt and stem
surging borrowing costs amid contagion from Europe’s sovereign
crisis. Prime MinisterSilvio Berlusconi’s government last month
passed 54 billion euros in austerity measures in exchange for
European Central Bank purchases of the nation’s bonds on the
secondary market.  Greece , Spain and Portugal area also seeking
to sell assets to reduce debt.  Spanish IPO  “Today kicks off a great structural reform for reducing
debt and helping the country’s growth and modernization,”
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said in an e-mailed statement
after a meeting of government officials, lawmakers, bankers and
executives in Rome where the documents were presented.  The Treasury also estimated that increasing the returns
from state assets including stakes in companies, real estate,
and concessions could lead to 9.8 billion euros in  deficit
reduction  a year by 2020.  The meeting came less than a day after  Spain  announced that
it had suspended plans to sell 30 percent of the state lottery
company, because market conditions meant it would have to price
the assets at less than book value. Greece last week cut its
target for revenue from state-asset sales to 4 billion euros
from 5 billion euros.  Traded Stakes  Tremonti said today’s meeting “for the first time”
classified and priced the state’s holdings. The Treasury’s
asset-sale plan focuses on real estate and increasing the
earnings of holdings, rather than selling off stakes in traded
companies, the documents showed.  The government controls 30 percent of oil company  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
31 percent of electric company Enel SpA, 30 percent of grid
company Terna SpA and 32 percent of defense contractor
 Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  The current combined value of the state’s
stakes in those companies is 28 billion euros. Selling them
would reduce Italy’s current debt level by less than 2
percentage points of gross domestic product.  “Selling state assets amounts to a temporary boost to
liquidity but that won’t meaningfully impact a country’s
solvency position,” Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said in an e-mail. “Privatizations merely
front-load future receipts into a single lump-sum as a state
asset is sold” and amount to “a re-profiling of the stream of
revenues, which is a zero-sum game in present value terms.”  State Assets  Italy’s state holdings include 425 billion euros in real-
estate holdings, 132 billion euros in company stakes,
infrastructure valued at 386 billion euros, available funds of
276 billion euros, 240 billion euros in credits, 176 billion
euros in natural resources, cultural assets worth 37 billion
euros and other items valued at 126 billion euros, according to
the report by Cassa e Depositi.  Those estimates were dated to 2004 and the government
didn’t give any details on plans to sell carbon permits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  