-- 
Renewables Face Cuts as Conservatives Bid for Power in Ontario

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-29T13:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/renewables-face-cuts-as-conservatives-bid-for-power-in-ontario.html
Next week’s election in Ontario may
come to be remembered as the day Conservatives took power in the
province, and the solar and wind generation industries lost it.  Opposition Conservative leader Tim Hudak wants to end a
Liberal subsidy for renewable-energy projects known as a “feed-
in tariff” he says is increasing household electricity bills.
He also pledged to cancel a contract with  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  that
would see the company invest C$7 billion ($6.8 billion) in solar
and wind power.  One winner, besides Hudak’s Conservatives, may be Montreal-
based  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , which could benefit from a push
toward nuclear power.  “The entire industry is on the edge of their seats,” said
 Anthony Kim , a solar-industry analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in  New York , referring to renewable energy.  Recent polls have  conflicted , with either the  Conservatives 
or the Liberals under Premier Dalton McGuinty holding a narrow
lead in voter support. The data suggest the Oct. 6 vote could
yield Ontario’s first minority government since 1985, when the
Liberals formed a coalition with the  New Democratic Party  even
though the Conservatives won the most seats.  The emergence of energy as a campaign issue in Canada’s
most-populous province mirrors debates elsewhere over renewable-
energy subsidies, as slowing growth leads to lower oil prices
and governments grapple with budget deficits.  The collapse of Fremont, California-based solar
manufacturer Solyndra LLC, which received a $535-million loan
guarantee from the U.S. government, has raised questions about
that country’s support of clean-energy as a potential source of
growth and jobs amid strong competition from Chinese firms.  Green Energy  While the  Liberal platform  touts manufacturing jobs tied to
“Green Energy,” both the Conservatives and NDP have questioned
the policies and pledged to cut electricity prices.  Under the 2009  Green Energy  Act, Ontario has bought power
from renewable-energy producers at a guaranteed price. A rooftop
development producing solar power can earn a subsidy of between
53.9 Canadian cents ($0.525) and 80.2 Canadian cents per
kilowatt hour, depending on the size. The average  wholesale
price  for electricity in September was 3.22 cents per kilowatt
hour. The policy has made Ontario the second biggest solar
market in North America, next to  California , Kim said.  Japan  and the European Union have complained about the
policy to the  World Trade Organization , calling it an illegal
subsidy.  ‘Shell Game’  Hudak, 43, called the tariff a “shell game,” saying the
Liberals haven’t delivered on their promise to create jobs.
“You promised us we’d pay higher hydro rates, and we’d get all
these jobs in new power,” Hudak said in a televised leaders’
debate Sept. 27. “We got the higher hydro bills alright, but
the jobs never came.”  The Liberals estimate renewable-energy will replace many of
the almost 130,000 manufacturing jobs lost during the 2008
recession. Factory employment remains 92,000 jobs below pre-
recession levels, Statistics  Canada  data show. Projects funded
under the Green Energy program have already created 20,000
direct and indirect jobs, Ontario energy minister Brad Duguid
said in an e-mailed statement.  Hudak has said the Conservatives would continue to rely on
nuclear power, which accounted for 52 percent of Ontario’s
electricity in 2010, and may build new reactors. This could
benefit SNC Lavalin, which agreed in June to buy the commercial-
reactor division of Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. in June. AECL
had bid on a contract to build two nuclear plants in Ontario
before the Liberals scrapped the plan.  Renewable Sources  The Liberals forecast renewable sources such as wind, solar
and biomass will produce 12.8 percent of the province’s energy
by 2030, up from three percent last year.  “I want us to be number one in  North America  when it comes
to producing clean-energy,” McGuinty, 56, said during the
debate.  He said canceling the Samsung contract, which Hudak called
a “sweetheart giveaway,” would send the wrong message to
companies looking to invest.  Seoul-based  Samsung  signed an agreement in January 2010 to
develop solar and wind-power projects that will produce 2,500
megawatts of electricity by 2016, enough to power 600,000
Ontario homes. The company is building four plants to produce
wind towers, blades, solar modules and inverters, creating
16,000 direct and indirect jobs, said Hagen Lee, Samsung’s
manager of government relations and business development.  “The idea is to create a brand new supply chain for wind
and solar,” said Lee, adding the company has already spent over
C$100 million.  Smaller Producers  The election has affected smaller producers such as
 Potentia Solar  Inc., a Toronto-based company launched by
Conundrum Capital, a private-equity firm. Potentia plans to
produce 100 megawatts of solar power within five years by
installing solar arrays on rooftops of commercial buildings.  “We’ve got all the ingredients, except one, which is a
politically stable environment,” said Lorne Stephenson,
director of stakeholder relations. The company has been cautious
in approaching new clients before the election, he said.  The Conservatives’ promise has created “tremendous
uncertainty” among investors and manufacturers, said Robert
Hornung, president of the Canadian Wind Energy Association.
Investors “are waiting to see what kind of market there will be
for wind power in Ontario,” he said by phone. If the tariff is
canceled, “that market would shrink significantly.”  Legal Challenge  The province may face legal challenges if it reverses its
support for renewable power. Trillium Power Wind Corp., a
company that planned to build offshore wind farms in  Lake
Ontario , has sued the government for C$2.25 billion, claiming
the province acted unfairly when it postponed offshore
developments in February to study their impact, the Globe and
Mail newspaper reported today.  The Conservatives and NDP have campaigned on lowering
energy bills, promising to remove sales taxes on home
electricity. Conservative candidate Simon Nyilassy said voters
in his Toronto-area district are worried about rising living
costs.  “People can’t afford to stay in their houses anymore,”
Nyilassy said. “That’s the day-to-day impact for the people on
the street that Dalton McGuinty has lost touch with, with his
green-energy experiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 