-- 
RHB Seeks Approval for Talks to Merge With OSK in Malaysia

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-09-30T09:22:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rhb-capital-seeks-approval-for-talks-with-osk-on-merger-1-.html
RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , Malaysia’s fifth-
biggest banking group by assets, has sought central bank
approval to begin negotiations with  OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  to combine
their investment banking businesses, the company said.  Both companies have “complementary business and market
segments,” Kellee Kam Chee Khiong, chief executive officer of
RHB Capital, said in a text message to Bloomberg today. OSK can
give RHB a “regional platform across key markets,” he said.  A merger with OSK would strengthen RHB’s stock broking
business three months after separate merger talks with Malayan
Banking Bhd. and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., the country’s two
largest banks, collapsed. RHB had said then that it would focus
on its own growth strategies after Maybank and CIMB called off
negotiations.  OSK Investment Bank Bhd., a unit of OSK Holdings, is
 Malaysia ’s fourth-biggest stockbroker by trading value this year,
while RHB Investment Bank Bhd. ranked third, according to stock
exchange  data . RHB and OSK combined would allow the enlarged
group to overtake CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. as the country’s top
equity broker.  Shares of OSK Holdings climbed 12 percent to 1.56 ringgit
at the 5 p.m. close in Kuala Lumpur, their biggest gain since
November, following yesterday’s announcement. RHB fell 2.2
percent to 7 ringgit.  Central bank approval is required in Malaysia before merger
negotiations between financial institutions can start.  “News on RHB’s potential merger talks with OSK surprised
us,” Winson Ng Gia Yann, an analyst with CIMB Group Holdings
Bhd., wrote in a report today. “It would be positive in the
longer term as it would give RHB Capital a regional presence and
boost its domestic retail broking business.”  Maybank and CIMB scrapped rival talks to acquire RHB in
June after  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar Investments PJSC paid 10.80 ringgit
a share for a 24.9 percent stake in RHB, pushing up the
potential takeover price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  