-- 
RIM Developer-Relations Head Lessard Latest to Leave

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-29T21:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rim-developer-relations-head-lessard-latest-executive-to-leave.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s head of
developer relations is leaving the company, adding to a spate of
executive departures at the maker of BlackBerry smartphones.  Tyler Lessard, vice-president, global alliances and
developer relations, will leave in the coming weeks, RIM
spokeswoman Marisa Conway said in an e-mail today. He will be
replaced by Alec Saunders, a former executive at QNX Software
Systems, the company RIM bought in April 2010 to provide the
core of its new smartphone operating system, she said.  RIM is overhauling its operating system to help reverse two
years of market share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.
Lessard is at least the fifth executive to leave RIM in as many
months.  “The company announced about a quarter ago a significant
restructuring, management realignment and this is the next phase
of that,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst with Macquarie
Securities USA Inc. in  New York . He rates RIM “outperform.”
“There will continue to be management changes as we move toward
the QNX launch in the early part of next calendar year.”  Mike Kirkup, senior director of developer relations,
announced his departure in a blog post in August. Ryan Bidan,
the product manager in charge of RIM’s PlayBook tablet computer,
left for Samsung Electronics Co. in July. Brian Wallace left his
job as head of digital marketing at RIM, to join Samsung in
June. Chief Marketing Officer Keith Pardy gave his notice with
the company in March.  Stock Performance  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, lost 74 cents to $21.16 at
4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock had
dropped 64 percent this year.  Lessard’s departure was reported earlier by the blog
crackberry.com, which also said Jeff McDowell, senior vice-
president, platform marketing and alliances, has left the
company. RIM’s Conway wouldn’t immediately comment on McDowell.  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer electronics
retailer, cut the price of the 16-gigabyte PlayBook by $200 to
$299 and pricier models with larger memory by the same amount.  The move comes a day after Amazon.com Inc. debuted its new
tablet, the Kindle Fire, which has about the same dimensions and
will sell for $199. RIM shipped 200,000 PlayBooks last quarter,
down from 500,000 in the previous quarter when they first went
on sale.  John Vinh, an analyst with Collins Stewart LLC, said in a
research note that RIM may be considering exiting the tablet
market. In a statement, RIM said any suggestion that the
PlayBook is being discontinued is “pure fiction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  