-- 
Romanian Granted $675 Million Under IMF Precautionary Loan

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-29T22:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/romanian-granted-675-million-under-imf-precautionary-loan.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
agreed to unlock $675 million in funds from  Romania ’s crisis-
prevention loan after the government trimmed its budget deficit
and sought to sell state assets.  The funds can be tapped under the eastern European nation’s
5 billion-euro ($6.8 billion) precautionary arrangement with the
Washington-based lender and the European Union, aimed at
providing a safety net during the euro-area debt crisis. This is
the third installment of the program, following a 480 million-
euro tranche made available in August.  “Romania has made good progress under the new Stand-by
arrangement,” the fund said in a statement. “The authorities’
commitment to continued reform has helped restore market
confidence and economic stability.”  Romania, which counted on an IMF-led bailout from 2009
through early 2011 as its economy shrank, exited recession this
year, with gross domestic product expanding 1.7 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter and 1.4 percent in the second.
It doesn’t plan to draw the precautionary funds as it has
sufficient reserves. The IMF will store the available
installments in  Washington  for emergency withdrawal.  Romania has pledged to narrow its budget deficit to 4.4
percent of GDP this year from 6.5 percent in 2010 and sell
stakes in energy and transport companies including utilities
 Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and Transgaz SA to raise revenue.  The government has cut public wages, frozen pensions and
increased tax revenue, helping it meet a first-half budget-
deficit target set by its lenders. The January-June shortfall
was 11.3 billion lei ($3.6 billion), or 2.1 percent of GDP,
below the 18.1 billion-lei gap in the year-earlier period and
within its 12.6 billion-lei goal.  Budget Deficit  The deficit, which the government plans to reduce to within
3 percent in 2012, was 2.4 percent at the end of August, the
 Finance Ministry  said Sept. 26.  Romania is seeking to finance the shortfall through
domestic and international debt markets and is still trying to
sell energy assets this year and next after failing to find a
buyer for a minority stake in  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , the country’s
biggest oil company, in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  