-- 
Romanian Central Bank Leaves Key Rate Unchanged for 11th Meeting

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-29T10:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/romanian-central-bank-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-for-11th-meeting.html
Romania ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for an 11th meeting to shield
the currency from weakening during the euro-area debt crisis,
holding off monetary-policy easing needed to spur growth.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the main rate at 6.25
percent, the European Union’s highest, the Bucharest-based bank
said in an e-mail today. The decision was expected by all 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It also left its minimum
 reserve requirements  on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent
and the ratio for leu deposits at 15 percent.  Central banks across the region are seeking to balance the
risks of slower growth in western  Europe , the main importer of
goods from its eastern neighbors, and weaker currencies as
investors cut exposure to emerging-market assets. Romanian
policy makers have kept  interest rates  stable since June 2010 as
they assess the impact of the global slowdown and fading effect
of a tax increase on prices.  “Even though the overall domestic landscape would rather
suggest relaxing monetary policy, we see the central bank
remaining prudent,” Banca Comerciala Romana SA economists led
by Lucian Anghel said. “Recent experience has taught us that
Romania’s stronger economic fundamentals pale when foreign
investors’ fears take over and their negative impact feeds
through the local foreign-exchange rate quickly and strongly.”  Poland ’s central bank left borrowing costs unchanged in
September on expectations inflation will slow and the economy
will weaken. Hungary kept its benchmark interest rate steady for
an eighth month Sept. 20, while the Czech central bank followed
suit two days later.  VAT Effect  Romanian policy makers have kept rates on hold after an
increase in the value-added  tax rate  to meet international
bailout pledges boosted inflation to the fastest in two years.
Before that, the bank lowered borrowing costs four times to
combat the worst recession in two decades.  Romania’s inflation rate fell to the lowest in 17 months in
August, dropping more than economists forecast, as a bumper
harvest boosted food stocks. It declined to 4.25 percent from
4.85 percent in July, the lowest since March 2010, the  National
Statistics Institute  said Sept. 12.  The inflation rate should fall within policy makers’ target
range of 2 percent to 4 percent in 2012, with price growth to
slow to 3.3 percent in the first quarter before accelerating to
3.5 percent by the end of the year, according to a central bank
 forecast .  The central bank scheduled its last interest-rate meeting
for this year on Nov. 2, and said it will provide more details
on its decision later today.  Economic growth slowed to 1.4 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter compared with 1.7 percent in the first.
Romania is on track to meet a forecast of 1.5 percent growth for
this year, Prime Minister Emil Boc said on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  