-- 
Romney Said to Raise $14 Million for Presidential Campaign This Quarter

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-30T20:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/romney-said-to-raise-13m-to-14m-in-q3.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney anticipates taking in between $13 million and $14 million
in the third quarter for his presidential campaign, according to
a person close to the campaign.  The total is still being tallied for the period that ends
today, and may vary depending on proceeds from New York
fundraisers, said the person who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the campaign hasn’t authorized disclosure of figures.  Polls show Romney and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  are the
frontrunners for the Republican presidential nomination, and the
so-called money primary may provide momentum for one of their
candidacies.  Ryan Williams, a Romney campaign spokesman, wouldn’t
comment on specific fundraising estimates, saying only that
officials expect to bring in “considerably less” than the $18
million haul from the second quarter.  Because Perry is the governor of a large state, a former
Republican Governors Association chairman and a new candidate,
“we suspect he will lead the Republican field in fundraising
for this quarter,” Williams said in an e-mail.  Perry Goal  Perry will raise at least $10 million, according to a
person close to the campaign; that would put his fundraising
strength near parity with Romney in the third quarter. As Perry
has slipped in polls after being attacked in back-to-back
debates, it remains to be seen if his fundraising operation can
grow in the next quarter.  Another person close to the campaign said Perry was able to
raise the first $10 million fairly easily, much of it from his
home state. The pace began to slow as questions surfaced about
his positions, particularly on immigration, this person said.
The two people spoke on condition of anonymity because the
campaign hasn’t authorized release of fundraising information.  Perry backed a state law that provided discounted, in-state
college tuition to children of illegal immigrants, a stance
widely criticized by his opponents.  Steffen W. Schmidt, a political science professor at  Iowa
State University , said the pressure on Perry to produce a
competitive fundraising sum is heightened by continued
speculation about the presidential intentions of New Jersey
Republican Governor  Chris Christie .  ‘Christie Fever’  “Perry needs to squash ‘Christie fever,’” he said. “It
is a killer for Perry, that even with him in the race, the GOP
is still looking. If I was a Republican fat cat, I would sit on
my political money until the dust settles.”  Texas Representative  Ron Paul , another Republican
contender, raised more than $5 million in the period, said
Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton in an interview. That tops the
$4.5 million Paul brought in last quarter.  Herman Cain , a businessman who beat Perry in the Sept. 24
straw poll in  Florida , today sent out a tweet declaring his
“best fundraising week....ever! THANK YOU! Let’s finish Q3
strong!” Cain raised almost $2.5 million in the second quarter,
which ended June 30. His campaign couldn’t be reached for
comment.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota also sent out
a fundraising appeal today, urging her supporters to send money
to prove she’s a viable candidate.  Washington ‘Elite’  “The Washington ‘elite’ are chomping at the bit to see the
numbers our campaign reports,” she wrote. “I need your support
today more than ever.”  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who has struggled with
fundraising and in the polls, donated $500,000 to his campaign
during the quarter. His campaign this week also shuttered its
Orlando, Florida, headquarters to save money and invest more in
 New Hampshire . Huntsman has said a strong performance in New
Hampshire’s first-in-the-nation primary is critical to his
presidential aspirations.  “New Hampshire’s always been our top priority,” said Tom
Miller, Huntsman’s spokesman. “We need to be successful in New
Hampshire to make sure we have a head of steam to compete
successfully” elsewhere. The decision to leave Florida reflects
“recent poll numbers showing movement in New Hampshire, and the
fact that we wanted to reallocate our resources to take
advantage of that,” he said.  All the Republicans will probably lag behind President
 Barack Obama , a Democrat. He raised $86 million for the combined
total of his campaign and the  Democratic National Committee  in
the second quarter. The campaign and party are targeting a
combined goal of $55 million for the third quarter.  Obama’s campaign spokesman,  Ben LaBolt , declined to comment
on specific figures for the quarter.  Buffett Headliner  In a last push before tonight’s midnight deadline for the
quarter, Obama is speaking at a campaign event at a private
residence in  Washington . Donors also will gather at a private
event in New York tonight hosted by billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
81, the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  The Buffett event will be held at the Four Seasons
restaurant and will feature an economic discussion led by  Austan
Goolsbee , a former Obama economic adviser now at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business. The event is sold out, with
about 100 people expected to attend the $10,000-a-ticket
session.  Romney has raised more than twice as much money from  Wall
Street  as Obama, an edge gained in part by luring away at least
100 donors, mostly investors, who backed the president in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2008, Obama received $15 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry, more than any other
candidate, according to the center. Romney received $5 million.
Some donors who gave to Obama during his 2008 race also gave to
Romney or other Republicans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  