-- 
Lafite Leads $347 Million Hong Kong Sale Amid Stock Swings

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-09-30T07:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rothschild-s-lafite-leads-340-million-hong-kong-sale-amid-volatile-stocks.html
Eight days after global equity
markets lost $3.5 trillion in a week,  Sotheby’s (BID)  begins a Hong
Kong sale of wine, art and jewels that will test the strength of
 China ’s growing market for  luxury goods .  It takes 12 catalogs weighing a total of 30 pounds (13.6
kilograms) to detail the 3,400 lots of Qing porcelain, Chateau
 Lafite  wines, Chinese art and jade necklaces that New York-based
Sotheby’s forecasts will help draw more than HK$2.7 billion
($347 million). Stocks have increased on hopes for a euro-region
rescue fund, and the volatility won’t put off wealthy bidders
from China, according to art dealers such as  Stuart Marchant .  “The market is very strong,” said Marchant, a London-
based dealer of fine Chinese porcelain who bought three pieces
at Sotheby’s April sale in Hong Kong. “There are probably going
to be a lot of mainland buyers.”  The six-day sale, featuring four private collections and an
auction of the Rothschild family’s Bordeaux wines shipped
straight from the Lafite cellars, comes as global equities and
commodities are poised for their worst quarterly losses since
2008 amid concern  Greece  will default on its debt, tipping the
world economy into a recession.  Sotheby’s autumn sale, including watches, jewelry and
traditional Chinese paintings, has 200 fewer lots than its April
auction in the city, which took a record HK$3.49 billion,
compared with an estimate of HK$2.7 billion, the auction house
said. The star lot in the spring sale, an 18th-century Chinese
vase worth more than $23 million, failed to find a buyer.  Lafite Imperials  The latest series starts on Oct. 1 with rare wines,
including six-liter Imperials of Chateau Lafite Rothschild from
2000 that are expected to sell for as much as $20,000 each and
three liter jeroboams of Cristal champagne from the cellars of a
private American collector worth $6,000.  Domaine de la Romanee-Conti burgundy wines from 1988
costing as much as $10,000 for a standard 75 centiliter bottle
will be offered the following day.  Jamie Ritchie, the head of Sotheby’s Asian wine sales, said
he is keeping his fingers crossed that the auction house will
achieve another sell-out auction in  Hong Kong , where it hasn’t
had an unsold bottle in its last 15 sales.  Debra Meiburg, a Master of Wine who attended a private
tasting of Bordeaux from 2000 yesterday hosted by Sotheby’s,
says demand for classic French reds remains resilient.  Lasting Love  “I’m a bit concerned how wine prices have become
stratospheric and wine has become positioned as an investment in
the minds of collectors,” she said in a telephone interview.
“But we haven’t reached the summit yet, there is lots of
enthusiasm for auctions in Hong Kong.”  Also on Oct. 2, an evening auction will offer 90 works of
Chinese contemporary art from Guy Ullens, founder of Beijing’s
largest private art museum, estimated to raise $10 million,
anchored by the sale of a work by Zeng Fanzhi that is estimated
by Sotheby’s to fetch as much as $2.6 million.  The following evening, an oil by  Zhang Xiaogang  from his
Bloodline series has a high estimate of $8.3 million according
to the catalog. At Sotheby’s April sale in the city, Zhang’s
triptych “Forever Lasting Love” fetched HK$79 million with
fees, more than double the HK$30 million top estimate.  A highlight of the Oct. 3 sale of 20th Century Chinese Art
is an abstract landscape oil painted by Chinese master Zao Wou-
ki in 1968 that is estimated to sell for as much as $4.5
million. Sotheby’s is also offering 36 works by  Zhang Daqian .  “Zhang’s work is the most popular in the market and the
price has kept going up,” said C.K. Cheung, head of Sotheby’s
Fine Chinese Paintings Department, at an exhibition of the
artist’s works earlier this month in Hong Kong. “Who knew the
Chinese art market would have gone to a such a high level after
Lehman Brothers went bankrupt.”  Scroll Sale  In May, Sotheby’s held a special sale of 25 of Zhang’s
works in Hong Kong including an ink-and-color hanging scroll
that sold for a record HK$191 million to an Asian telephone
bidder, more than nine times the high estimate.  Oct. 5 will feature the second installment of the
Meiyintang collection of Chinese porcelain assembled over six
decades by Stephen Zuellig, a Swiss businessman whose family
made its fortune distributing pharmaceuticals.  That day will also see 358 lots of jewelry offered,
including a ring featuring a 9.27 carat pink diamond known as
the Golconda Pink that carries a high estimate of $19 million.  Jewels and watches from the estate of Hong Kong actress and
singer Anita Mui, who died of cancer in 2003, also go under the
hammer on Oct. 5, followed the next day by the final sale of
watches.  Buyer’s premium, the commission added to the hammer price
of works sold, is 25 percent for the first HK$400,000, 20
percent for lots fetching as much as HK$8 million, and 12
percent above that. The wine premium is a flat 21 percent.
Estimates reflect the hammer price, before premium.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at the  Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale can bid via Sotheby’s
 online bidding system .  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 