-- 
Ruble Extends Worst Quarterly Drop Since 2009 as Reserves Fall

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-29T16:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ruble-extends-worst-quarter-versus-dollar-before-bailout-vote.html
The ruble weakened against the
dollar, extending its worst quarterly depreciation since 2009 as
 Russia ’s reserves fell for a third week after the central bank
sold dollars and euros to slow the ruble’s decline.  Russia’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 31.85 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow. The ruble has fallen 12
percent against the greenback this quarter, the biggest drop
since the three-month period ended March 31, 2009.  Russia’s international currency and gold reserves fell for
a third consecutive week, the central bank said in a statement
today, losing $6 billion to $526 billion. Global investors
anticipate Europe’s debt crisis leading to an economic slump, a
financial meltdown and social unrest in the next year, with 72
percent predicting a country abandoning the euro as a currency
within five years, a Bloomberg survey found. The European Union
is Russia’s biggest trading partner.  The new reserves data suggest “that the central bank has
intervened for about $3.6 billion in the week ending last
Friday” to slow the currency’s decline, Gyula Toth, the Vienna-
based chief strategist for central and eastern Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa  at UniCredit SpA, wrote in an e-mailed
research note today.  Bank Rossii sold more than $6 billion of its currency
reserves since the start of September, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
told reporters in Moscow Sept. 27. The bank is “entirely
satisfied” with its current intervention system, he said.  The ruble lost 0.5 percent to 43.4375 per euro today,
leaving it down 0.4 percent at 37.0644 against the basket.  ‘Tight’ Policy  The ruble’s weakening poses “serious risks” of stoking
inflation, Ignatiev said. Russia’s annual inflation rate has
fallen in the three months through August and currently stands
at 8.2 percent, the slowest pace since November.  The central bank should maintain “tight” monetary policy
to curb price growth, Odd Per Brekk, the International Monetary
Fund’s senior representative in Moscow, said at a JetFin
conference in Geneva today. Policy makers should seek to slow
price increases even as the economy faces “downside” risks,
Brekk said.  Russia cut lending rates for the first time in 15 months on
Sept. 14, lowering the rate on repurchase loans in a bid to
boost the amount of cash available to lenders.  Europe ’s debt crisis and lower  oil prices  mean Russia’s
gross domestic product will grow 4.3 percent in 2011, down from
a previous estimate of 4.8 percent, and 4.1 percent next year,
compared with an earlier forecast of 4.5 percent, the IMF said
in a report on Sept. 27.  Bailout Approved  German lawmakers today approved changes that will expand
the firepower of the European Financial Stability Facility
bailout fund.  Investors increased bets the ruble will depreciate further,
with non-deliverable forwards showing it dropping to 32.3552 per
dollar in three months’ time, compared with 32.2101 yesterday.
NDFs provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials.  Russia’s only ruble Eurobond fell today, cutting the yield
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.204 percent.
Sovereign dollar bonds due in 2020 rallied, with the yield down
nine basis points at 5.072 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  