-- 
Rupiah Rebounds After Loss on Intervention Speculation, Stocks

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-29T10:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/rupiah-declines-as-funds-reduce-holdings-on-economic-slowdown.html
The rupiah rose for a third day,
erasing an earlier loss, on speculation the central bank
intervened in the currency and after Indonesian stocks gained.
Bonds advanced for a fourth day.  Bank Indonesia  will buy bonds and intervene in the  currency
market  “until the market cools,” Governor  Darmin Nasution  said
last week. The yield on the Indonesian government’s benchmark
8.25 percent securities due July 2021 fell eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.06 percent today, according to
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate has
dropped 46 basis points this week so far.  “We saw intervention from the central bank to stabilize
the market,” said Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin
Bank in Jakarta.  Indonesia ’s “stock market is positive today,
that also supported the rupiah. Bank Indonesia comes into the
market when it feels it is necessary.”  The rupiah appreciated 0.4 percent to 8,856 per dollar as
of 4:20 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has declined 3.6 percent
this month and is heading for its biggest monthly decline since
Feb. 2009. It has dropped 3.2 percent this quarter so far.  The currency slid as much as 1 percent earlier today on
concern global investors are reducing holdings of the nation’s
stocks and bonds as a global slowdown saps demand for riskier
assets.  Foreign funds sold $644 million more Indonesian shares than
they bought in September through yesterday, exchange data show.
 Overseas holdings  of sovereign bonds dropped 9.9 percent this
month to 222.8 trillion rupiah ($25.2 billion) as of Sept. 26,
according to debt management office data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  