-- 
S&P Raises GM to Highest Junk Rating

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-29T20:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/s-p-raises-credit-rating-on-general-motors-to-bb-highest-junk-rating.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s corporate
credit rating was raised two levels to BB+, the highest non-
investment grade, from BB- by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, which cited the company’s new four-year U.S. labor
accord. S&P may also raise  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s debt ratings.  S&P’s boost for Detroit-based GM two years after its U.S.-
backed bankruptcy puts it two levels above rival Ford’s BB-
corporate credit rating. S&P may raise Ford to BB+, depending on
the outcome of its United Auto Workers talks, the ratings
company said. The Dearborn, Michigan-based maker of Fusion
sedans and F-Series pickups is now negotiating with the union.  GM’s contract with the UAW “will allow for continued
profitability and cash generation in  North America ,” S&P said.
GM reached an agreement with the UAW for a new labor deal on
Sept. 16, which union members ratified. Labor costs will rise 1
percent a year, which is the smallest increase in a GM contract
in four decades, the company said yesterday.  “It really is a new GM with a much lower break-even point
and a different management team,” David Whiston, a Morningstar
Inc. equity analyst, said in a telephone interview. “Both GM
and Ford are due for an upgrade. Their balance sheets are going
in the right direction for investment grade.”  GM’s global automotive operations will generate positive
free cash flow of “at least $5 billion annually for the next
few years, excluding voluntary pension contributions,” the
ratings company predicted in the report.  The company said yesterday it can break even with annual
U.S. industrywide light-vehicle sales of 10.5 million.  ‘Fortress Balance Sheet’  “We are pleased that S&P has recognized the progress we
are making,” GM Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann said in a
statement. “Our fortress balance sheet and low breakeven point
are helping us succeed even in uncertain economic times, so we
can stay focused on building great products and driving
profitable growth around the world.”  Moody’s Investors Service is reviewing GM’s credit rating
for a possible upgrade, the New York-based company said in a
Sept. 22 statement. Moody’s cited the then-pending resolution of
GM’s new contract, which it viewed as “constructive” and
capable of preserving the automaker’s competitiveness,  Bruce
Clark , an analyst for the ratings company, said in a phone
interview.  GM rose 35 cents, or 1.7 percent to $20.76 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford gained 7 cents to
$10.  Ford-UAW Talks  S&P expects to assign Ford a BB+ rating if the company’s
“U.S. labor negotiations are resolved and ratified” and if the
automaker isn’t placed “at a significant disadvantage” to GM,
the ratings company said in a separate statement.  “We continue to make great progress on our plan, and we
are pleased with this positive step,” Todd Nissen, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Ultimately, the
 credit rating agencies  determine when we return to investment
grade. Our job is to stay focused on making progress on our
plan.”  The UAW may reach an agreement this week on a contract
covering Ford’s 41,000 workers, Joel Goddard, co-chairman of the
UAW’s bargaining committee said in a recorded message Sept. 26.  Ford is discussing adding as many as 10,000 jobs in the
U.S. in the UAW talks, according to three people familiar with
the talks. As many as 4,000 of those jobs may come from Ford
shifting production of the Fusion midsize sedan to the U.S. from
 Mexico , one of the people said.  Ford expects to resume paying a dividend in the
“relatively near future,” Controller Bob Shanks said at the
Citi Global Industrials Conference in  Boston  on Sept. 21. The
company doesn’t need “to be investment grade before resuming
our dividends,” Nissen said in an e-mailed statement after
Shanks’s presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  