-- 
Sanofi’s Jevtana Cancer Drug Rejected by U.K. Cost Agency

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-09-29T23:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/sanofi-s-jevtana-cancer-treatment-rejected-by-u-k-cost-agency.html
     Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Sanofi’s Jevtana drug was rejected
by the U.K.’s health-cost agency as a treatment for prostate
cancer in patients for whom an older medicine didn’t work.  Jevtana is too costly given “uncertainty” about its
hearts and kidneys effects, the  National Institute for Health
and Clinical Excellence  said in an e-mail announcing the
preliminary decision. The drug also doesn’t meet criteria for
treating people with short life expectancies because a study
found it prolonged life by 10 weeks, said the agency known as
NICE, which typically seeks at least 12 extra weeks of survival.  Sanofi has the opportunity to propose price discounts, NICE
said. The agency will issue another draft decision after hearing
comments from the Paris-based company, health-care providers and
the public, according to the statement.  “Sanofi is committed to working with NICE in the coming
months to achieve the best possible outcome for men with
advanced prostate cancer,” Jean-Marc Podvin, a Sanofi spokesman,
said in an e-mail. The drugmaker is “disappointed that the
appraisal committee’s preliminary finding is not to recommend
the use of Jevtana on the basis of cost,” he said.  NICE considered Jevtana when used alongside prednisone or
prednisolone, two steroids, in patients whose disease progressed
after treatment with docetaxel.  Jevtana typically costs 22,000 pounds ($34,500) for a
course of treatment, according to the agency, which advises the
 National Health Service  on the cost-effectiveness of medicines.  The drug, known by the chemical name cabazitaxel, won
approval in March from the European Union for treatment of
prostate cancer. U.S. regulators approved the drug in June.  The announcement was made after markets in Paris closed
yesterday. Sanofi added 1.3 percent to 49.855 euros. The shares
have gained 4.2 percent this year, compared with the 1.2 percent
advance of the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  