-- 
Santander’s CEO Sees ‘Normal’ Profit Levels in Three Years

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-29T20:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/santander-ceo-sees-profit-normalizing-in-three-years.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Alfredo Saenz said it may take three years for profit to
“return to normal” as revenue from emerging markets drives
growth at Spain’s biggest bank.  The bank will see a “gradual normalization” of profit,
which may improve its return on equity by between three and six
percentage points, Saenz said in a statement based on a
 presentation  for analysts today. Santander’s return on equity, a
measure of profitability, was 9.2 percent in June.  Santander has relied on emerging markets such as  Brazil  and
 Mexico  to bolster earnings as profit slides in Spain, which
accounts for a third of its lending. The bank in July posted a
38 percent drop in second-quarter net income of 1.39 billion
euros ($1.9 billion) as loan losses rose in  Spain  and it set
aside money to compensate U.K. clients mis-sold loan insurance.  “The world is too complex to be a ‘one-trick pony,’”
Saenz said in the presentation. “It is possible to create value
in both mature and emerging markets.”  Fast-growth economies will provide “double-digit” profit
increases in the short and medium term while mature markets
where provisions have stabilized or are falling such as the U.K.
and U.S. will register “single-digit” growth over the next
three years, Saenz said.  Spain and  Portugal  will generate 2 billion euros of free
capital a year in 2013 and 2014 and the bank’s task now is to
retrieve lost profits in mature markets where it’s now
provisioning heavily for loan losses, he said.  Investment Period  In the U.K., Santander predicts an “investment period” in
2012 and 2014 with “higher profitability starting in 2014,”
the unit’s CEO, Ana Patricia Botin, said in a presentation
today. The focus over the next three years will be to integrate
operations acquired from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which
the bank expects to complete in the final quarter of 2012, she
said.  “By 2014, Santander U.K. will be the leading U.K. bank in
efficiency and profitability,” Botin said. Return on tangible
equity at the U.K. unit, a measure of profitability, is expected
to drop to about 11 percent in 2012 and 2013 from 15 percent
this year as its cost-to-income ratio rises to as much as 50
percent from 45 percent, she said.  “By 2014, after absorbing systemic and structural impacts,
Santander U.K. will be as efficient and profitable as it is
today,” she said.  The bank now doesn’t expect to sell shares in its U.K. unit
until after 2012 and an initial public offering may not happen
until as late as 2014, Saenz said today in  London .  Santander forecast its lending in Brazil will increase by
as much as 17 percent a year in 2012 and 2013, according to a
presentation by Marcial Portela, head of the unit. Profit in the
country, which contributes a quarter of Santander’s earnings,
will rise 15 percent in 2012 and 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  