-- 
Sata Fires Zambia Central Bank Chief in Sign of Policy Shift

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-29T12:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/sata-fires-zambia-central-bank-chief-in-sign-of-policy-shift-1-.html
Zambia’s central bank Governor
Caleb Fundanga, who helped curb inflation to below 10 percent
for the first time in 30 years, was fired by President  Michael Sata  in a sign the government may seek looser monetary policy.  Information Minister Given Lubinda confirmed in a phone
interview from the capital, Lusaka, today that Fundanga was
removed from his post. The Bank of Zambia declined to give
further details, spokesman Kanguya Mayondi said in an e-mail.  Fundanga, 58, was head of the Bank of Zambia since 2002,
winning awards for his fight against inflation. His removal may
signal the government wants lower  interest rates  and a weaker
currency in Africa’s biggest copper producer, said Leon Myburgh,
sub-Saharan Africa strategist for Citigroup Inc.  The election manifesto of Sata’s Patriotic Front
“indicated they believe interest rates are too high and the
currency is too strong,” Myburgh said in a phone interview
today. “There is a distinct possibility that the monetary
policy framework may change.”  Sata defeated former President Rupiah Banda in the Sept. 20
vote on pledges to distribute more mineral wealth to citizens.
He replaced former Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  with
businessman Alexander Chikwanda and named Wilbur Simusa, a
lawmaker and geologist, as Mines Minister.  ‘Remain Calm’  “Investors must remain calm, the mining companies
included,” Lubinda said. “We want all those that had put on
hold their investment plans to immediately resume their plans
because this government will not harm them.”  The kwacha fell as much as 2.5 percent to 4,890 against the
dollar today and was trading at 4,855 as of 2:08 p.m. in Lusaka.  Zambia has kept inflation in single digits this year while
larger African economies such as Nigeria and  Kenya  have
struggled to curb the effects of higher food and fuel prices.
The inflation rate fell to 8.3 percent in August from 9 percent
in the previous month, the statistics office said on Aug. 25.  “With Sata coming into office, he wants his own people in
the various institutions,” Yvonne Mhango, sub-Saharan Africa
economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in a
phone interview today. “The question is whether he just wants
somebody leaning towards his party or whether he actually wants
to influence monetary policy.”  Zambia’s economy has benefited after most of its debt was
canceled in 2006 and copper prices climbed. The country received
its first  credit rating  in March when Standard & Poor’s and
 Fitch Ratings  assigned it B+, four steps below investment grade.
The government had said it plans to sell a $500 million Eurobond
to help fund the construction of roads and power generation
facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  