-- 
HSBC Wins Priority Over Other Banks in U.K. Algosaibi Case

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T11:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/hsbc-wins-priority-over-other-banks-in-u-k-algosaibi-case-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  won priority for
repayment over  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and five other banks in a U.K.
lawsuit seeking at least $250 million from  Saudi Arabia ’s
Algosaibi family and their company, which defaulted in 2009.  Priority for repayment from Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co. relates to five apartments allegedly owned by the
family and is contingent on HSBC’s so-called charging orders
against the company being finalized, judge Julian Flaux ruled
today in the  High Court  in London. A trial over the apartments
in London’s Mayfair neighborhood is scheduled for Nov. 28.  “HSBC will have priority over the opposing banks in the
event that the charging orders are made final,” Flaux said in
the judgment. HSBC was first to apply for an interest in the
apartments after the bank’s legal advisers discovered the
properties by examining Algosaibi documents, Flaux said.  Algosaibi, with interests including construction, beverage-
bottling and finance, admitted liability in the matter in June
and hasn’t said how or when it will repay the banks in the case
or dozens of other lenders seeking repayment. The case includes
HSBC’s $85 million claim, British Arab Commercial Bank Ltd.’s
$19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140
million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  The case is part of a global dispute between Algosaibi and
one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men, Maan al-Sanea, who married
into the Algosaibi family and founded the  Saad Group , which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care. Units of
Saad and Algosaibi defaulted after borrowing about $15.7 billion
from more than 80 banks.  Equal Share  The other banks in today’s case argued that if they weren’t
given an equal share of the apartments with HSBC, they may not
recover anything from Algosaibi due to the difficulty of
enforcing rulings in Saudi Arabia and “the unlikelihood of
assets being available elsewhere,” according to the judgment.  An HSBC unit also granted mortgages over two of the
properties, according to the ruling. The judgment didn’t specify
the value of the apartments.  The other banks have opposing charging orders that they
argue should be finalized instead. They argued giving priority
to London-based HSBC would be “unfair and prejudicial,”
according to the ruling.  Algosaibi also admitted liability in a separate U.K. case
in which European Islamic Investment Bank Plc, a London-based
lender whose deals comply with Sharia law, seeks payment of a
$78 million claim on behalf of group of other lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  