-- 
SEC Urges Brokers to Bolster Controls Over Market Access

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-29T23:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/sec-urges-brokers-to-bolster-controls-over-direct-market-access.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is urging brokers to tighten controls over accounts
used to give clients direct access to markets, saying the so-
called sub-accounts can be used to hide wrongdoing.  “Although master/sub-account arrangements have legitimate
business purposes, some customers may use them as vehicles for
illegal activity or in an attempt to avoid or minimize
regulatory obligations and oversight,” Carlo di Florio,
director of the SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations, said today in a Risk Alert issued by agency staff.  The alert offers suggestions for brokers on compliance with
the market access  rule  approved by commissioners in November.
The rule, which went into effect in July, directed firms to
implement controls to limit risks associated with trading by
their customers. It also ended unsupervised trading, or “naked
access” to markets.  Because master accounts are often subdivided, brokers must
take steps such as verifying user identities, monitoring trading
patterns and tracking hacking attempts to protect against crimes
including  money laundering  and  insider trading , the SEC said in
the alert.  “The basic concern is there could be a structure where
someone is not a broker-dealer that should be a broker-dealer,”
George Hessler, president and chief executive officer of Stock
USA Execution Services Inc., a Carmel, New York-based securities
firm, said in a phone interview. “That’s the worry.”  Registered Broker  Except in certain permitted situations, if a broker-dealer
has a customer with sub-accounts, that customer may function as
a broker and should therefore be registered as one, he said. A
broker-dealer allowing that arrangement could be permitting
trading that shouldn’t be allowed, he said.  The SEC’s market-access rule requires brokers to implement
controls to prevent orders from exceeding credit or capital
limits as well as those that appear to be erroneous. Some
aspects of the rule were delayed until Nov. 30. Naked access in
the stock market had been used by traders whose strategy of
buying and selling thousands of shares in milliseconds would be
slowed by submitting orders through a broker’s system.  “Our national examination staff intends to scrutinize the
controls and procedures at broker-dealers that offer  market
access  to master/sub-account customers,” di Florio said in the
agency’s statement.  Finra  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority issued  guidance 
last year advising brokers that they may be required to treat
sub-accounts as separate customer accounts. It said some
arrangements raise questions about “whether they can
legitimately be viewed as one customer account for purposes of
Finra rules, the federal securities laws and other applicable
federal laws.”  Finra has identified 20 to 25 broker-dealers it will
examine to assess compliance, Thomas Gira, executive vice
president for market regulation, said at a conference in New
York on Sept. 21. The aim is to ensure that firms are making
“good-faith” attempts to comply, he said.  “We are going to be seeing and hearing issues for the
first time,” Gira said. Finra aims to construct “best-
practices” guidelines for the securities industry, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  