-- 
Serbia’s MK Group Is Among Bidders for Stake in Hellenic Sugar

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-29T09:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/serbia-s-mk-group-is-among-bidders-for-stake-in-hellenic-sugar.html
MK Group d.o.o.  is among bidders
competing to buy a controlling stake in Greek sugar refiner
 Hellenic Sugar Co. (HSI) , the Serbian company’s owner, Miodrag Kostic,
said.  MK Group, a holding company for agribusiness, sugar
refining, trade, tourism, information technology and property
management, submitted a non-binding offer for 82.33 percent of
Hellenic Sugar. Bidders will have up to four months to inspect
documents before making binding bids, Kostic said in an
interview at a bank conference in Belgrade yesterday.  Hellenic Sugar’s owner,  Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA, is
is selling non-banking activities as part of a restructuring
plan. The takeover of Hellenic Sugar, with a market value of
between 32 million euros ($44 million) and 40 million euros,
would help MK Group expands in the Balkans, Kostic said.
Nordzucker Gmbh & Co KG and  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  are also bidding.  “The competition is tough,” Kostic said. “We consider
ourselves among the most serious competitors, along with
Suedzucker and Nordzucker.”  MK Group runs its sugar business in  Serbia  through Sunoko
d.o.o., a unit that operates four refineries.  The investment would open up sugar markets in neighboring
Macedonia, Bulgaria and Albania, “but primarily  Greece  because
Greece is our top sugar buyer, they do not produce enough
sugar,” said Kostic said.  Serbia exports around 100,000 tons of sugar to Greece worth
between 70 million euros and 80 million euros a year, accounting
for 65 percent of an annual sugar export quota the country has
with the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  