-- 
Severstal May Invest $2 Billion a Year in Steel, Coal, Ore

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-09-29T17:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/severstal-ceo-will-spend-up-to-2-billion-a-year-to-boost-output.html
OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s second-
biggest steelmaker, will invest about $1.5 billion to $2 billion
a year to raise output and mine more raw materials, feeding its
own plants while expanding sales at home and abroad.  “Mining is an essential part of our company, a very strong
generator of revenues and earnings,” Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Mordashov said today in an interview in London. “The
contribution of mining will be bigger in the future.”  Severstal is seeking to almost triple iron-ore output from
last year to 38.2 million metric tons by 2020 as it starts
mining in  Latin America  and  Africa , the company said today in a
 presentation . Coking-coal volumes will rise to 17.9 million tons
from 7.3 million tons, helping Severstal increase steel output
by a third to 19.6 million tons, it said.  The company has snapped up iron ore deposits in  Brazil  and
West Africa as it seeks to counter rising raw-material costs.
After selling three unprofitable steel mills in the U.S. in
March and separating its Italian Lucchini SpA unit last year,
Severstal has followed competitors in tapping emerging markets,
where demand growth has outpaced expansion elsewhere.  “Our strategy is about upstream integration into raw
materials and presence on the markets with good opportunities to
grow,” Mordashov said.  India  Venture  The company agreed in December to form a joint venture with
NMDC Ltd. in India, where  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and South Korea’s  Posco (005490) 
have already unveiled plans for steel projects. Severstal and
NMDC have agreed to invest 150 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to
build a steel plant in the southern state of Karnataka, NMDC
Chairman Rana Som said yesterday in New Delhi.  India’s per-capita steel consumption, lower than in Brazil,
Russia and  China , is projected to grow as the population expands
by a forecast 25 percent by 2025, Severstal said in today’s
presentation.  “ Asia  is very, very attractive,” Mordashov said.
Countries like  Indonesia ,  Vietnam  could be interesting for us
just because of the fundamentals. Latin America as well could
give us good opportunities.”  In May, Cherepovets-based Severstal agreed to buy 25
percent of SPG Mineracao, which owns  iron-ore  exploration
licenses in northern Brazil, and has an option to buy a further
50 percent. It also controls an iron-ore project in Liberia. The
company has scaled back in markets such as the U.S., where it
sold plants to Renco Group Inc. in March.  Follow the Trend  “It’s good to be in mature markets as long as you can have
a sound business model, like we have in the U.S. now after the
reshuffle of our portfolio,” Mordashov said, adding that
“because of very clear fundamentals, we believe we should
follow the trend of the market and be more focused on Asia.”  In 2015 or 2016, Severstal aims to be among the world’s top
5 steelmakers by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, the CEO said. “We would like to be a big company
but in terms of profits, in terms of money-making. We would like
to be as big as we can in Ebitda generation.”  Severstal also mines gold in Guinea and Burkina Faso and
studied a uranium acquisition last year, before talks with
Berkeley Resources Ltd. failed to reach an agreement. The
company said today it will spin off its Nord Gold unit, which
postponed a proposed initial public offering in  London  in
February, citing an unfavorable market.  Good Decision  “It’s good Severstal decided to focus on steel-related
mining as investors haven’t understood its attempts to bid for
uranium and nickel deposits, which is quite extravagant for a
steelmaker,” Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at UralSib Capital in
Moscow, said by telephone. “It would be good for the company to
spin off its Nord Gold unit as well, as gold trades at different
multiples to steel.”  Severstal’s largest investment in the next decade will be
in mining. It plans to spend as much as $3.5 billion at the Putu
Range in Liberia, and as much as $2 billion at the Amapa iron
ore project in Brazil, according to today’s presentation. The
company is considering feeding its U.S.  steel mills  with iron
ore from Brazil and  Canada , Mordashov said.  Severstal is seeking to double output at its U.S. PBS Coals
unit by 2015 and spend as much as $2.8 billion to develop the
Tyva coking-coal deposit in East Siberia by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in London, via the Moscow newsroom at
   ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  