-- 
Share Microfin’s Banks Agree to 12 Billion Rupee Restructuring

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-29T07:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/share-microfin-s-banks-agree-to-12-billion-rupee-restructuring.html
Share Microfin Ltd. today said
banks including  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  agreed to restructure about 12
billion rupees ($245 million) worth of debt and granted a year’s
moratorium on repayments.  Share Microfin’s existing investors including Legatum Group,
controlled by billionaire Christopher Chandler, and Indian fund
Aavishkaar Goodwell are investing 48 million additional rupees
in the company, Share Microfin said in a statement. The loans
will be restructured over seven years, the Hyderabad-based
lender said.  Investors are slowly returning to the sector after the
 Reserve Bank  of  India  proposed new regulations and called for
banks to resume funding for micro-lenders. Share Microfin is
also in talks for a possible three-way merger with closely held
Asmitha Microfin Ltd. and Spandana Sphoorty Financial Ltd.,
Udaia Kumar, Share Microfin managing director, said in a phone
interview.  “In principal we are looking at an opportunity to take
advantage of the market situation,” he said. “The merger right
now is at a concept stage and everyone has to agree.”  Indian microfinance companies’ loan portfolios have halved
from their peaks in October, according to an August report from
Micro-Credit Ratings International Ltd. A clampdown in  Andhra
Pradesh , India’s largest market for small loans, last October
led to capping  interest rates  and restrictions on debt
collection methods, causing loan recoveries to drop below 20
percent.  Lending has dropped 97 percent from peak levels in the
state, Kumar said.  SKS Microfinance Ltd. (SKSM) , the only publicly
traded company from the sector in India, has plunged 59 percent
this year compared with a 19 percent decline in the benchmark
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index.  Dubai-based Legatum invested about 1 billion rupees in
Share Microfin in 2007, Philip Vassiliou, managing director of
the fund, said last November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net 
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  