-- 
Shell Shuts Refinery as Two-Day Singapore Fire Is Put Out

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-09-30T03:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/shell-to-shut-singapore-refinery-after-extinguishing-worst-fire-since-1988.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  extinguished
a fire that raged for two days at its largest  oil refinery  and 
said it's shutting processing units at the Singapore plant
as a precaution.  “The fire has been extinguished at Shell refinery at Pulau
Bukom,”  Europe ’s biggest oil company said in a statement 
late yesterday. “However, there are traces of fuel vapor.
We are prepared to shut down all refinery units if this is
considered necessary from a safety perspective, with the
exception of utilities.”  The fire at Pulau Bukom, an island 5.5 kilometers (3.4
miles) from Singapore’s financial center, broke out at 1:15 p.m.
local time Sept. 28, Shell said. Local newspaper and television
pictures showed flames rising from the plant amid reports of
explosions.  Singapore  is Asia’s largest oil-trading, refining
and storage center, with local product supply dominated by
Shell’s Pulau Bukom, which can process 500,000 barrels a day of
crude, and facilities operated by Exxon Mobil Corp.  “These accidents don’t happen very often in Singapore,”
said Crystal Yu, 29, the co-owner of a claypot rice restaurant
about 100 meters from Pasir Panjang jetty, the embarkation point
for ferries to the Shell refinery. “As residents in this area,
we worry about the safety concerns of such an incident. We’re
worried that a big explosion or oil leaks onto the surface of
the water and catches fire.”  Eighty Firefighters  Eighty firefighters battled the blaze that broke out in a
pump house and forced the evacuation of about 400 workers, Shell
said. Two fire engines were badly damaged and 250 workers
remained on the site. There were no fatalities.  “We are progressively shutting down the refinery over the
next two days” as a precaution, not because of damage, Martijn
van Koten, Shell’s vice-president for eastern manufacturing
operations, said yesterday at a Singapore press briefing. The 
company will halt other processing units at the site, including
a petrochemical plant, if that’s what it takes to put out the
fire, he said.  Company spokeswomen Mavis Kuek and Serene Loo didn’t
immediately respond to requests today for information on the
status of the shutdown.  A diesel-producing hydrocracker at the 50-year-old refinery
was closed, boosting regional fuel prices, almost 23 years to
the day after a fire killed a worker at the site. Shell has
operated in Singapore for about 120 years.  ‘Significant Not Dramatic’  Gasoil, or diesel, rose to the highest in four weeks
against Dubai crude, signaling increased processing profit.
Gasoil swaps for October traded at $18.16 a barrel over the
Asian benchmark crude today, the biggest premium since Sept. 2,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based
broker. This crack spread was $16.22 before the unit was shut.  “The impact is significant but not dramatic,”  David Wech ,
head of research at JBC Energy GmbH, a consultant in Vienna,
said in an e-mail. “It will be a question of how long the
plants are off. We expect a week at least.’  Shell purchased diesel and gasoline cargoes in Singapore’s
spot market yesterday, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
traders monitoring transactions. It bought 150,000 barrels of
ultra-low-sulfur diesel from Hin Leong Trading Pte and 50,000
barrels of 95-RON gasoline from BP Plc.  Gasoline and diesel fuel were burning at the facility, Kuek
said Sept. 28. One of Shell’s firefighters was injured and five
others experienced heat exhaustion and ‘‘pulled muscle,” the
company said.  ‘Pipes Opened Up’  “The incident occurs in an area between the processing
facility, including the hydrocracker, and the product tank
farm,” said van Koten. “One or more pipes opened up and the
product inside fell and fed the fire.”  Shell’s Pulau Bukom facility also houses an 800,000 metric
ton-a-year ethylene plant and a 155,000 ton-a-year butadiene-
extraction unit, according to its  website . The refinery, which
includes a fluid catalytic cracker that makes gasoline, exports
90 percent of its products to Asia-Pacific.  A Malaysian contractor was killed in a fire at the plant on
Sept. 29, 1988, National Library  archives  showed.  Shell also has production facilities on neighboring Jurong
Island, where refineries belonging to Exxon Mobil and Singapore
Refining Co., a joint venture between Chevron Corp. and
Singapore Petroleum Co., are located. Exxon was ordered to stop
work for a day at another Singapore refinery in March after a
34-year-old worker was killed during plant maintenance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  