-- 
Shell’s Alaska Oil Plan Contested by Inupiat Village, Groups

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-09-29T20:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/shell-s-alaska-oil-plan-contested-by-inupiat-village-groups-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s U.S.
approval for oil exploration in  Alaska ’s  Beaufort Sea  is being
contested by groups including the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  and an Inupiat village worried about the risk of spills.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, based in  New York ,
and Point Hope, a settlement on Alaska’s North Slope, were among
a team that sued the Interior Department for deciding to allow
the drilling, Holly Harris, an attorney for the environmental
law firm Earthjustice, said today on a conference call with
reporters.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration failed to ensure
the environment will be protected during drilling, as required
by a law regulating offshore development, Harris said.
Earthjustice filed the petition in the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of
Appeals for 12 environmental organizations and Point Hope.  “Approving this kind of risky behavior without an adequate
environmental review, and without public input is unlawful,”
Harris told reporters. “We are going to do everything we can to
bring this to the” court’s attention.  The Hague-based company was cleared by  the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  on Aug. 4 to begin
exploring in July 2012 and tap Arctic leases it bought in 2005
and later years, in which it has invested about $4 billion.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management  doesn’t have a
comment on the groups’ complaints, spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz
said in an e-mail today.  Shell’s plan for the Beaufort and Chukchi seas, which are
estimated to hold about 25 billion barrels of oil, have been
delayed by environmental groups, North Slope residents and the
administration over concerns that a spill may kill polar bears
and hurt bowhead whales, key to the North Slope subsistence
lifestyle. A federal appeals court in 2007 halted Shell’s
Chukchi work in response to complaints from the groups.  Shell remains confident that the approval of the Beaufort
exploration plan will be upheld in court, spokesman Curtis Smith
said in an e-mail today.  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Judy Pasternak  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  