-- 
Siemens to Seize Opportunities Thrown Up by Banking Wobble

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-09-29T08:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/siemens-aims-to-seize-opportunities-thrown-up-by-banking-wobble.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s project-financing arm
aims to double business in the next five years and mop up extra
clients as banks cut lending to fend off  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Siemens Financial Services, which provides credit for
projects such as  power plants  and hospitals, has beaten
financial targets for five consecutive years, making it one of
the German engineering company’s most profitable businesses.
Assets could exceed 20 billion euros ($27 billion) by 2016
compared with 12.5 billion euros in 2010, said banking head
Roland Chalons-Browne.  “If you are having an economic environment where market
participants are holding back, that can provide opportunities
for us,” Chalons-Browne said in an interview at the division’s
Munich headquarters. To reach 20 billion euros in five years,
the unit would need to more than double annual asset growth.  Like  General Electric Co. (GE) , having an in-house financing arm
for infrastructure customers is giving Siemens a “competitive
edge,” the executive said. The European debt crisis has
generated as much as 300 billion euros in credit risk for banks
in the region, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
which cut its outlook for global economic growth on Sept. 20.  Power, Medical Financing  SFS provides equity and debt financing for projects
including power plants and wind parks and for medical equipment
such as magnetic resonance imaging machines for hospitals. It
owns stakes in coal and gas power plants, offshore wind parks
and an airport. Its largest project is the $1.71 billion, 1,220-
megawatt Paiton II coal-fired power plant on  Indonesia ’s Java
island.  Siemens will separate the more standardized leasing and
equipment financing within the unit from the more demanding
project and structured-finance businesses, which will be
organized alongside Siemens’s four sectors, the company said in
a  statement  today.  In addition to its focus on clients in energy, industry and
health care, Siemens is creating a fourth sector called
infrastructure and cities in an effort to sell products such as
mass-transit technology and water treatment facilities to
municipalities. The new organization takes effect on Oct. 1.  Emerging Markets  The activities help Siemens expand business in countries
such as India and  China , where rural hospitals need financing
for smaller-ticket medical equipment, which hospitals in the
Western world buy with cash. Even in its German home market,
Siemens today sells one in three computed tomography scanners
with the help of SFS.  SFS’s equity has been  rising  along with total assets, to
1.46 billion euros in 2010 from just over 1 billion euros three
years earlier. The unit includes a bank, asset-based lending,
private equity and project finance activities, equipment
financing and leasing activities, and industrial insurance.
Employee numbers have also swelled, to about 2,500 from 1,800
five years ago.  Provision of financing helps Siemens secure orders as
governments reduce spending. Pretax profit for the company as a
whole fell by 47 percent to 1.08 billion euros in the most
recent quarter, with financial services contributing 89 million
euros. SFS aims for a return on equity after taxes of between 15
percent and 20 percent. The unit’s return was 24.8 percent for
the financial year ended Sept. 30.  French Banks’ Cutbacks  Siemens’s expansion in financial services coincides with
worries about the wider banking industry.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s two largest banks, are trimming
about 300 billion euros off their balance sheets as Europe’s
debt crisis deepens.  Siemens withdrew short-term deposits from Societe Generale
in the first half of July, a person with knowledge of the matter
told Bloomberg News this month. The funds may have been
transferred to the  European Central Bank , the person said. After
receiving a banking license in December, Siemens is eligible to
deposit funds directly with the ECB.  Having an in-house bank also helped Siemens win a train
order in the U.K. this year, as SFS structured the financing of
the contract. Past profitability was helped by limited
competition, Chalons-Browne said. While some traditional banks
are scaling back lending to limit their credit exposure, the
need for contractors to provide financing has attracted others
to offer a full-scope of services.  “It’s possible through what’s happening in the financial
markets that there might be some incremental opportunities,”
Chalons-Browne said. “During a period of growth, returns might
slightly come down from today’s level, as the mix of projects
financed changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Munich via 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  