-- 
Siemens Wind-Power Unit Aims to Return to Margin Exceeding 10%

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-09-29T11:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/siemens-wind-power-unit-aims-to-return-to-margin-exceeding-10-.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, aims to return to a profit margin of at
least 10 percent of revenue in its wind power operations by
cutting costs and streamlining operations.  “We’ll have double-digit margins once we are the cost
leader,” Michael Suess, the head of Siemens’s energy
businesses, told reporters today at an energy conference in
Fuschl am See, Austria.  Profitability at the renewable-energy division, once among
Siemens’s stellar performers, has fallen by half, with operating
profit at 7 percent of sales in the quarter ended June 30 versus
as much as 14.2 percent 10 quarters earlier. Suess said that
excess capacity in countries like the U.S., as well as
aggressive pricing in markets such as  China , led to the decline
at the renewables unit.  Siemens will industrialize and standardize production
processes and will “drive consolidation” based on cost
leadership, Suess said. The Munich-based company has a target of
ranking among the world’s three largest wind companies by
installed capacity by 2012. It was the sixth largest for land-
based capacity and biggest in offshore units in 2009.  The manufacturer said on Aug. 4 that it will split the
renewable-energy division in two, separating wind-related
activities from solar and hydroelectric power, as the
development stages of these markets differ greatly.  The wind-power division had 3.2 billion euros ($4.4
billion) in sales in the year through September 2010, and as of
this month employed 7,800 people and had an  order book  of almost
11 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Hof,  Austria , via 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Munich via 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  