-- 
Solaria Considers Tax Break in California Expansion

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-09-30T22:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/solaria-may-cancel-factory-as-california-reconsiders-tax-break.html
(Corrects that company may build a new plant outside
 California  in first paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Solaria Corp., a U.S. solar-panel
manufacturer, may decide to build a second factory outside
California as the state reconsiders a program that gave bankrupt
Solyndra LLC a $25.1 million tax break.  In April, Solaria  opened  a solar-panel manufacturing plant
in Fremont, the same city where Solyndra built its now-shuttered
factory. The possibility of building a second panel plant in
California may be derailed without the tax break, said David Hochschild, a Solaria spokesman.  “That will be one of the factors that we’ll be looking
at,” Hochschild said today on a conference call with reporters.
“I don’t think the California government wants to cede their
leadership.”  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer asked state officials
this week to suspend and review additional sales-tax exemptions
for renewable-energy manufacturing equipment. About $31.4
million in taxes have been waived under the law, according to
data on the treasurer’s website, and would amount to about $104
million over a three-year period that started last year.  The pause is intended to protect taxpayers and improve the
program,  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “The treasurer is not suggesting this tax break be
ended,” Dresslar said. “He strongly supports development of
the solar industry in California.”  Tax Breaks  Under a 2010 law, the state Alternative Energy and Advanced
Transportation Financing Authority can exempt sales taxes on
equipment, the building or assembly of alternative-energy
manufacturing and landfill-gas plants. The authority plans to
vote on suspending the program on Oct. 25.  Solaria, which has hired workers dismissed by Solyndra when
that plant closed on Aug. 31, has received $122,667 in tax
waivers through Sept. 1, out of as much as $709,800 in
exemptions granted under the program over three years for their
factory in Fremont.  Bloom Energy Corp., a fuel-cell maker, and Tempe, Arizona-
based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  have also benefited from the tax break.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Christopher Martin} in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
{Mark Chediak} in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  