-- 
Sony Expects ‘Huge Impact’ on Earnings From Slump in Euro, Treasurer Says

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-09-29T07:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/sony-expects-huge-impact-on-earnings-on-euro.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest
exporter of consumer electronics, said it expects a “huge
impact” on earnings from the weaker euro, underscoring the
company’s vulnerability to the European debt crisis.  Sony doesn’t buy many components from  Europe  while its
Asian suppliers settle in dollars, limiting its ability to hedge
against the euro’s decline, Hiroshi Kurihara, corporate
treasurer at Sony, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  “There are no countermeasures that we can take for the
moment,” he said. “There is a huge impact on our earnings.”  The euro’s slump to a decade low against the yen compounds
the challenge for Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer ,
eroding the value of sales in Sony’s biggest export market just
as a weakening won helps South Korean competitor Samsung
Electronics Co. Stringer has shut factories and focused on new
products such as tablet computers in a bid to end losses.  “Even as companies take various measures against exchange
rate fluctuations, it’s going to be tough for those with higher
sales ratios in Europe,” said  Yoji Takeda , who manages $1.1
billion at RBC Investment Management ( Asia ) Ltd. in  Hong Kong .
The euro’s sharp drop “is a problem for Japanese exporters.”  Europe is the biggest market for some Japanese companies
including Nintendo Co. and  Canon Inc. (7751)  Kyoto-based Nintendo, the
world’s biggest maker of game players, got 41 percent of revenue
in the quarter ended June 30 from Europe, data on the Bloomberg
show. Tokyo-based Canon, the world’s biggest maker of cameras,
generated 32 percent of sales in the region last fiscal year.  Decade-Low  The 17-nation euro, which tumbled to a decade-low of 101.94
yen this month, has fallen 11 percent against the Japanese
currency in the past three months and traded at 104.22 as of
3:56 p.m. in Tokyo. The yen has appreciated 4.2 percent against
the euro in 2011, the biggest gainer among 16 major peers to the
shared currency.  South Korea ’s won has declined 5.7 percent
against the common European currency in the same period.  The Japanese company’s relocation of some manufacturing
operations to  China  and other Asian sites, combined with an
increase in outsourcing, helped Sony balance its revenue and
costs in U.S. dollar terms, reducing the risk of losing money
from the currency’s moves, Kurihara said.  In the past two years, Sony has sold three TV factories,
including one in Barcelona and another in Slovakia as part of
its streamlining efforts.  Sony rose 0.8 percent to 1,515 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
 Tokyo  trading. The stock has lost 48 percent this year, compared
with the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s 15 percent drop.  Missing Forecast  In July, when the maker of Bravia televisions forecast
full-year operating profit of 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion),
Sony assumed the euro would trade at about 115 yen from July to
March. The company loses about 6 billion yen of annual operating
profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and administrative
expenses, for every 1 yen decline against the euro, according to
Mami Imada, a Sony spokeswoman.  The company will likely miss the full-year earnings
forecast by about 7 percent, according to the average of 21
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s difficult to raise prices in Europe due to the
competition with Korean makers,” said Kurihara. “We can’t run
away from  currency risk  as long as we sell overseas.”  Sony made 30 percent of its revenue in  Japan , 21 percent in
Europe, 20 percent in the U.S. and 18 percent in Asia excluding
Japan, in the year ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  