-- 
S. Africa Credit Growth Quickens to 6.1% as Bank Holds Rates

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-29T07:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/south-africa-lending-accelerates-to-6-1-as-bank-holds-rates.html
South African credit growth
accelerated to 6.1 percent in August as the central bank kept
its key lending rate at a 30-year low for the longest period
since 2006 to support economic growth.  Expansion in lending to households and businesses increased
from 5.7 percent in July, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said
on its website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 12 analysts was 5.5 percent.  “It’s a little bit higher,” said  Colen Garrow , an
economist at Brait SA in Johannesburg. “But, I am afraid the
story is still a weak one. My argument is still very much in
favor of cutting  interest rates .”  Consumer confidence has weakened as the economy’s recovery
faltered in the second quarter, expanding at the slowest pace in
two years, undermining spending and credit demand. The consumer
sentiment index dropped to a two-year low of 4 in the third
quarter,  First National Bank  said on Sept. 12. Growth in
household spending slowed to an annualized 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from 7.9 percent in the previous three months,
the central bank said on Sept. 13.  Governor Gill Marcus kept the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent last week and said the Monetary Policy Committee was
“ready to act” if the economic crisis in the U.S. and Europe
threatens to derail growth in the largest economy in Africa.  The rand weakened 0.6 percent to 7.8547 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:18 a.m., pushing the decline this year to 16 percent. The
currency is the worst performing among the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg this year.  The broad M3 measure of  money supply  rose 6.2 percent in
August from a year earlier, the central bank said. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for M3 to expand 5.6 percent.  “If you look at the underlying trend, it’s one of things
getting better,” said  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, before the data
was released. “The big question mark everyone has right now is
what is happening to consumer demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  