-- 
South African Credit, Producer Prices Reduce Chance of Rate Cut

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-29T12:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/south-african-credit-producer-prices-reduce-chance-of-rate-cut.html
South African credit growth and
producer-price inflation accelerated in August, reducing
expectations the central bank will cut its key  interest rate 
even as the economic outlook deteriorates.  Expansion in lending to households and businesses increased
to 6.1 percent from 5.7 percent in July, the Pretoria-based
central bank said on its website today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists was 5.5 percent. Statistics
 South Africa  said producer-price inflation climbed to 9.6
percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace in almost three
years and beating a 9.1 percent forecast of 13 economists.  “This will set the expectation of a cut back a little
bit,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset Management in
Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. With rising
inflation driven by costs rather than demand, “you would
typically want to keep the rate on hold,” he said.  Governor Gill Marcus left the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent last week and said the Monetary Policy Committee was
“ready to act” if slow growth in the U.S. and a European debt
crisis threatens to derail growth in the  Africa ’s largest
economy. Economists lowered their growth forecasts after a
contraction in manufacturing and mining output slowed annualized
economic growth to a two-year low of 1.3 percent in the second
quarter.  Citigroup Inc. estimated the economy will grow 3 percent
this year, less than its previous forecast of 3.4 percent, Jean- Francois Mercier, an economist at the bank in Johannesburg, said
by phone. Stanlib reduced its prediction for this year’s
economic growth to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent, Lings said.  Go For Growth  With consumer price inflation only expected to temporarily
breach the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range
and a worsening economic outlook, the central bank will aim to
spur growth rather than curb inflation when deciding on monetary
policy, Lings said.  “Right now you would think that our of the inflation-
growth choice, they will go with growth, believing that
inflation is temporary,” he said.  The inflation rate was unchanged at 5.3 percent in August,
according to the statistics office. The central bank forecasts
it will probably breach the upper end of the band in the fourth
quarter and peak at about 6.2 percent.  The rand weakened 1 percent to 7.8839 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:20 p.m., pushing the decline this year to 16 percent. The
currency is the worst performing among the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg this year.  The broad M3 measure of  money supply  rose 6.2 percent in
August from a year earlier, the central bank said. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for M3 to expand 5.6 percent.  “If you look at the underlying trend, it’s one of things
getting better,” said  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , before the data
was released. “The big question mark everyone has right now is
what is happening to consumer demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  