-- 
South Korea’s Industrial Output Declines on Month as Global Demand Weakens

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-30T04:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/south-korea-s-industrial-output-expands-faster-as-weakening-won-supports.html
South Korea’s industrial production
decreased in August from July, in another sign that a global
economic slowdown is pressuring  Asia ’s largest exporting
nations.  Output slid 1.9 percent last month from July, when it
decreased a revised 0.3 percent, Statistics Korea said today.
The median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.3 percent decrease. Production rose 4.8 percent from
a year earlier after gaining a revised 4 percent in July.  The report adds to evidence that the European debt crisis
and faltering U.S. economic growth are weighing on production in
the region, with reports today showing output in  Japan  increased
less than expected and that a gauge of Chinese manufacturing
shrank for a third month. A 9 percent weakening in the won
against the dollar this month may prove inadequate to support
 South Korea ’s exports, said economist Kong Dong Rak.  “A weak won can help but export and output may lose
momentum at any time if the global economy slips into a
recession,” Kong, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the release. “The central
bank may want to raise  interest rates  soon to control inflation
but they will likely wait until the dust settles down in
 Europe .”  The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,179.43 per dollar at 1:21
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has declined about 4 percent against the dollar so far
this year. The Kospi stock index dropped 1 percent.  Confidence Falling  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence for October held at
a 21-month low while  consumer confidence  for September stayed at
its lowest since March as businesses and people braced for a
global economic slowdown, according to central bank reports this
week.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
global economic growth this year to 4 percent from 4.3 percent
last week. Its Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the
downside risks to global economy are “piling up.”  In a sign that weaker global demand is affecting other
markets in the region, a Japanese government report showed that
industrial production rose 0.8 percent from the previous month,
less than all but three of 28 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Meanwhile, a gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a
third month in September, the longest contraction since 2009,
according to the purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.  Bank of Korea  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo kept borrowing costs
unchanged for a third month on Sept. 8, saying the bank may
refrain from resuming rate increases until “external” factors
such as Europe’s debt crisis are under control.  LG Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, said last month it may cut spending next year
as slowing flat-screen television sales damp demand. Growth in
vehicle sales at Hyundai Motor Co., the nation’s largest
carmaker, slowed to 5.1 percent in August from a year earlier
after a 9.2 percent gain in July and a 13 percent increase in
June.  South Korea’s leading index of economic indicators rose 2
percent in August from a year earlier, the same as in the
previous month, today’s report showed. Sales of  consumer goods 
fell 0.2 percent from July and advanced 5.2 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Sim in  Seoul  at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  