-- 
SpaceX’s Musk Says ULA Space Launch Monopoly a ‘Mistake’

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-09-30T00:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/spacex-ceo-musk-says-boeing-lockheed-launch-monopoly-a-mistake-.html
Elon Musk, chief executive officer
of Space Exploration Technologies Corp., said extending a U.S.
space launch “monopoly” controlled by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  would be a mistake.  Musk said the Air Force is “proposing to extend the sole-
source monopoly” of United Launch Alliance LLC, a joint venture
of Chicago-based Boeing and Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed,
until 2018. He spoke at the  National Press Club  in  Washington 
and also announced plans to develop a reusable rocket.  Awarding United Launch Alliance a block buy of future
launches “would be a big mistake for the American taxpayer and
also for jobs in America,” Musk told reporters afterward.  The Air Force plans a block buy strategy that will commit
the Defense Department to a minimum of eight launches a year for
a total of 40 through fiscal 2016, yielding a projected savings
of about $830 million. The average for the past four years has
been about six launches.  Jessica Rye, a spokeswoman for Centennial, Colorado-based
ULA, said independent groups have studied the block buy “as
being the most cost efficient method to purchase launch
services,” a similar approach to satellite procurement.  ULA was formed in 2006, Rye said in an e-mail, because
market conditions didn’t justify two companies with separate
infrastructures competing for space launch business. The
equipment has a track record of success, she said.  Flight Expertise  “Our products have five decades of flight expertise,” Rye
said in the e-mail. “ULA has supported 12 critical national
security and NASA launches in the past 12 months.”  ULA uses Atlas and Delta rockets to launch military and
civilian satellites into space as part of the  Air Force ’s
Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle, or EELV, program.  President  Barack Obama  in his fiscal 2012 budget proposed
$1.76 billion for the Air Force program, up from $1.18 billion
in 2011 and $1.14 billion in 2010.  SpaceX is developing a family of rockets known as Falcon
for commercial and government customers, including a Falcon
Heavy designed to compete for national security business.  Major Tracy Bunko, a spokeswoman for Air Force Secretary
Michael Donley, said the service will release a new acquisition
strategy “in the next few weeks” aimed at controlling cost
growth and promoting competition in the EELV program.  The strategy “will clearly identify the capabilities that
an aspiring launch provider must demonstrate in order to be
certified,” Bunko said in an e-mail. It builds on reviews
recommending block buys to reduce costs and new entrant criteria
developed in cooperation with  NASA  and the National
Reconnaissance Office, she said.  “Central to this effort is our commitment to providing a
level playing field to all competitors who demonstrate the
ability to reliably launch EELV-class payloads,” Bunko said in
the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  