-- 
Spain Denies Repsol’s Request to Probe Increased Pemex Stake

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-09-30T11:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/spain-won-t-probe-pemex-stake-in-repsol-denying-company-request.html
Spain ’s energy regulator won’t
investigate Petroleos Mexicanos’ increased stake in oil producer
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) , denying a request from the Spanish company’s
management for a review that could have lasted months.  Repsol’s share in a regulated Spanish utility isn’t big
enough to trigger a rule that calls for a probe of non-European
Union companies that gain significant stakes in EU companies,
the  Comision Nacional de Energia  said in a statement yesterday.
Repsol controls  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , Spain’s biggest natural gas
supplier, with La Caixa bank.  Repsol, based in  Madrid , sought the agency’s review to
prevent Mexican state-owned Pemex from increasing its influence
over the company. Pemex, which owns almost 10 percent of Repsol,
agreed to an alliance on Aug. 29 with  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  to
coordinate a combined stake of almost 30 percent to install a
new chief executive officer and shift the company’s strategy.  “This eliminates one obstacle to the agreement and is
positive given Sacyr has to work on its refinancing,” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores in Madrid.  Sacyr has a December deadline to renew a 4.9 billion-euro
($6.7 billion)  credit line  used to finance its investment in
Repsol. The company has begun the process of refinancing the
loan, it said in a regulatory filing today.  Shares Fall  Sacyr shares fell 2.5 percent to 4.183 euros in Madrid at
1:11 p.m. local time, while Repsol shares traded down 0.5
percent at 19.82 euros.  The request to the CNE was one of several defensive moves
by Repsol since the Pemex-Sacyr alliance. Repsol’s board on
Sept. 28 approved new rules that would force Sacyr Chairman Luis del Rivero out of his position as Repsol’s vice chairman. Del Rivero and Pemex’s representative on the board may need to win a
vote by other shareholders to retain their positions.  “A deal like this should be subject to analysis and it is
our responsibility to address the concerns of all those groups
with a stake in our company,” Kristian Rix, a Repsol spokesman,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Sacyr is satisfied with the CNE decision because Repsol’s
request was damaging to the interests of shareholders, said a
Sacyr spokesman who declined to be named, citing company policy.  Repsol, which gets most of its revenue from oil, votes a
combined 68 percent of Gas Natural shares through an agreement
with  La Caixa .  The benefits for Pemex of a closer cooperation with Repsol
will be worth $4.27 billion, the Mexico City-based company said
in a Sept. 21 filing with Spanish regulators. Increasing its
stake will help Pemex take on “highly complex” projects and
deep-water drilling, the company said.  “In the short term, Pemex doesn’t have control,” Salvador
said. “If they can attract support from more investors, they
may gain it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  