-- 
Spanish Inflation Accelerates for First Time in Five Months

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-29T07:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/spanish-inflation-accelerates-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
Spanish inflation accelerated in
September for the first time since April on higher  oil prices 
even as consumers suffering from the highest unemployment rate
in  Europe  reined in spending.  Consumer prices, based on European Union calculations, rose
3 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 2.7 percent rate
in August, the National Statistics Institute, or INE, said
today. Inflation was 3.1 percent according to the Spanish
measure of prices, the Madrid-based institute said.  Spain ’s inflation rate remains above the euro-era average,
even as its economy is recovering more slowly than Europe. Euro-
region inflation was 2.5 percent in August, unchanged from July.
The Bank of Spain’s monthly bulletin published yesterday said
third-quarter data show “weakness of activity in general.”  Spain is more sensitive to changes in the cost of oil than
other euro-area countries and inflation should fall below the
regional average early next year, Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said on May 23. The price of crude oil
traded at $81.65 today, 28 percent below its April 29 one-year
high.  Retail sales declined for the 14th month in August, the INE
said in a separate statement today, as the 21 percent
 unemployment rate  undermines consumer demand.  Finance Minister Elena Salgado today said the slowdown in
Spanish economic growth continued in the third quarter though
expansion will “continue in the third and fourth quarters, and
of course much more so next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  