-- 
Steve Jobs Started Talks With Samsung About Patent Dispute, Director Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T09:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/steve-jobs-pushed-talks-with-samsung-to-address-patent-dispute.html
Steve Jobs , founder of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
initiated contact with rival Samsung Electronics Co. in July
2010 to try to resolve a patent dispute that has since become a
legal battle on four continents, an Australian court was told.  Jobs wasn’t involved once the ultimately unsuccessful talks
over the Galaxy smartphone began, Richard Lutton, a senior 
director at Apple and the company’s patent attorney, told 
Federal Court in Sydney today.  “Samsung is an important supplier with whom we have a deep
relationship,” Lutton testified in response to questioning by
Samsung lawyer David Catterns. “We wanted to give them a chance
to do the right thing.”  Lutton testified at a hearing about Apple’s effort to block
Samsung from selling the Galaxy 10.1 computer tablet in
 Australia  until its patent claims are resolved at trial. Samsung
had already agreed to delay the sales of the tablets until
Justice Annabelle Bennett rules on Apple’s request. She said
that would likely occur next week.  The talks were confidential, Lutton said. Once lawyers
began to question him about the content of the negotiations,
Bennett cleared the courtroom to allow the testimony in private.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment on Lutton’s remarks or the negotiations.  Apple claims that Samsung used its patents to copy the
iPhone and the iPads. Samsung has also sued with claims in  South
Korea , Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and Australia that Apple
violated its own patents.  Samsung is the second largest supplier for Apple, while
Apple is Samsung’s biggest customer, according to data on the
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  