-- 
Stoke Tops Europa League Soccer Group; Spurs, Fulham, Birmingham Also Win

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/stoke-tops-europa-league-soccer-group-spurs-fulham-birmingham-also-win.html
Stoke beat Besiktas 2-1 to move
atop its group in soccer’s Europa League, as English rivals
Tottenham, Fulham and Birmingham also won.  John Walters scored with a penalty kick in the 78th minute
last night to give Stoke the home win. The Potters lead Group E
with four points, one more than Besiktas, after the second round
of matches in  Europe ’s second-tier club competition.  “It’s far too early to start thinking about going through
to the next stage,” Stoke manager  Tony Pulis  told his club’s
website. “The important thing is we have targeted winning our
matches which should give us a great chance and this is an
excellent start in that respect.”  Roman Pavlyuchenko, Jermain Defoe and Giovani dos Santos
scored in a five-minute span of the second half as Tottenham
beat Shamrock Rovers 3-1. Spurs share the top spot in Group A
with Rubin Kazan, which tied PAOK Salonika 2-2.  Andy Johnson scored both goals as Fulham defeated Odense
2-0 to stay level with FC Twente, which beat Wisla Krakow 4-1,
atop Group K.  Birmingham won 2-1 at Maribor on goals from Chris Burke and
Wade Elliott and is three points behind Bruges, which beat Braga
2-1, in Group H.  Almen Abdi’s penalty kick in the 88th minute earned Udinese
a 1-1 draw at Celtic. Udinese and  Atletico Madrid , which tied
1-1 at Rennes, have four points in Group I, three more than
Celtic and Rennes.  Anderlecht, PSV Eindhoven,  Athletic Bilbao  and Sporting
Lisbon all lead their groups after winning for the second
straight time.  Schalke tops Group J after beating Maccabi Haifa 3-1,
Standard Liege and Hannover both won to share the Group B lead,
while Metalist Kharkiv’s 1-1 tie with AZ Alkmaar left the two
even in Group G.  The two top teams in each of the 12 groups advance to the
knockout phase along with the eight third-place finishers from
the elite  Champions League  group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 