-- 
Sumitomo Mitsui Unveils $2.6 Billion Buyout Plan for Promise

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-09-30T07:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/sumitomo-mitsui-financial-said-to-make-promise-wholly-owned-unit.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
said it will buy out Promise Co. for about 200 billion yen ($2.6
billion), betting that  Japan ’s second-biggest consumer lender
will recover under the bank’s umbrella.  The country’s second-biggest bank by market value, which
owns 21 percent of Promise, will buy existing stock through a
tender offer and new shares by the end of the year, Sumitomo
Mitsui said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.  The buyout deal comes as Japanese consumer lenders struggle
to survive after a five-year regulatory crackdown forced them to
cut loan rates and refund overcharged interest. Promise said it
expects to post a 208 billion yen loss for the six months that
ended today, citing a “persistently severe” business environment.  “Making Promise wholly owned would confirm that  Sumitomo
Mitsui  is fully committed to the consumer-lending business,”
Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said before today’s announcement. “Given that the local
consumer-loan market’s been shrinking, Sumitomo Mitsui may be
looking at other emerging markets for future growth.”  Sumitomo Mitsui offered to pay 88.8 billion yen for Promise
shares outstanding. That’s 780 yen apiece, an 18 percent premium
on today’s closing price of 659 yen. It will also spend about
120 billion yen buying new shares, the statement said.  Shares Gain  Promise shares surged 18 percent today after newspaper
reports of the takeover. Competitors Acom Co. and Aiful Corp.
also gained as the deal spurred speculation that Japan’s
consumer finance industry will survive the crackdown. The three
companies posted losses last fiscal year and  Takefuji Corp. (8564)  went
bankrupt after law changes went into effect that restricted
lending and triggered interest refunds.  Bigger rival Acom rose 2 percent to close at 1,500 yen on
the Tokyo bourse after climbing as much as 16 percent. Aiful,
the third largest, closed 7.6 percent higher at 113 yen, after
earlier soaring as much as 27 percent.  Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi indicated
support for banks increasing ties with consumer lenders, while
refraining from commenting on specific deals.  “The consumer finance industry is a 10 trillion yen market
and has social significance,” Jimi said at a news conference in
Tokyo before the announcement. “I look forward to the creation
of a healthy market through cooperation among banks and consumer
finance firms.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Backing  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. is Acom’s biggest
shareholder with a 37 percent stake. Aiful doesn’t have backing
from a major Japanese banking group.  Consumer finance companies were forced to reduce  interest
rates  to a maximum 20 percent from as much as 29 percent under
the law introduced last year, reducing profit on loans.  Promise’s net interest margin shrank to 13.7 percent in the
year ended March, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling
data in 1995. Acom’s slid to 15.5 percent, the smallest in at
least 11 years.  Loans outstanding at Promise declined to 920 billion yen as
of March 31, the lowest fiscal year-end balance since 1997,
Bloomberg data show. At Acom, loans tumbled to 1.1 trillion yen,
compared with the 2 trillion yen peak in March 2003.  While loans are declining, so is the number of customer
claims for refunds of excess interest.  Promise’s claims fell to 8,900 in August after climbing to
16,400 in March, Hiroshi Takada, a company spokesman in  Tokyo ,
said this month. Acom’s dropped to 7,500 in August from 16,500
in February, said Takashi Kiribuchi, a Tokyo-based spokesman.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Sumitomo Mitsui on the
takeover, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  