-- 
Swedish Riksbank Won’t Offer Liquidity Below Market Rates

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-30T08:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/swedish-riksbank-won-t-offer-banks-liquidity-below-market-rates.html
Sweden’s lenders can’t rely on the
central bank to provide cheap liquidity should  Europe ’s debt
crisis deepen and engulf the region’s banks, Riksbank Deputy
Governor Lars Nyberg said.  “If they borrow from us, it should be as a last resort,”
Nyberg told Bloomberg in response to questions in Stockholm
yesterday. “It will be more expensive than what they can buy on
the markets.”  Europe’s bank funding market is “very stressed” as the
specter of a Greek default threatens to send shockwaves across
the whole region,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen said Sept. 15. The  European Central Bank  has
been pumping cash into euro area money markets, including dollar
liquidity, to keep credit flowing among the region’s banks as
interbank lending shows signs of stalling.  Stockholm-based SEB AB, the biggest Nordic currency trader,
told the Svenska Dagbladet newspaper last month it could have
found alternatives to tapping the Riksbank for dollar liquidity
during the financial crisis that started in 2008, and that it
used the central bank because it was cheaper.  “We could have chosen other paths to replace our dollar
funding or reduce our balance sheet but that would have been
worse for our customers and commercially less interesting,” Ola Kallemur, an SEB spokesman, told the newspaper on Aug. 16.  ‘Reasonable Interpretation’  Telling banks they can’t expect the Riksbank to provide
financing at rates cheaper than the market is “a reasonable
interpretation of the lender of last resort possibility,” said
Jan Erik Gjerland, an analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo, by phone.  Reluctance amongst Europe’s banks to lend on the  interbank
market  is the highest in more than 2 1/2 years, market rates
indicate. The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the
three-month European interbank offered rate and overnight index
swaps, rose this week to 91 basis points, the highest since
March 18, 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Sweden’s Riksbank has urged the country’s banks to reduce a
mismatch in dollar funding and krona lending to prevent a rerun
of the 2008 liquidity crisis that followed the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. That event forced the central bank to
step in and provide emergency dollars, peaking at $30 billion,
to support Swedish banks.  Not Intended  “We allowed the banks to borrow at pretty good rates”
during the crisis that followed Lehman, Nyberg said. “That has
even been said by a bank to a newspaper: that we borrowed from
the Riksbank not because we had to but because it was cheaper
than borrowing from someone else. It’s not meant to be like
that.”  The Nordic country’s lenders still need to do more to
prepare for a deterioration of Europe’s debt crisis that
threatens to freeze interbank markets,  Lars Frisell , chief
economist at the country’s financial regulator, said Aug. 17.  Foreign currency borrowing by Swedish banks, whose combined
balance sheets are about four times the size of the economy, has
risen to about 1.5 trillion kronor ($222 billion), from 200
billion kronor in 1998, according to Riksbank data.  Sweden’s biggest lenders, which include Nordea,  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA) , Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SEB, all passed the European
Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15 with a core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 8.6 percent under an adverse scenario.
The minimum requirement was 5 percent.  Nordea shares fell 2.6 percent to 56.85 kronor as of 10:26
a.m. in Stockholm. SEB’s stock fell 2.8 percent, Handelsbankens
shares were down 2.5 percent and Swedbank declined 2.5 percent,
underperforming a 1.6 percent drop in  Stockholm ’s OMX index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  