-- 
Benchmark SMI Advances for Fourth Day in Five; Lonza, Nobel Biocare Climb

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-29T16:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/swiss-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-in-five-lonza-nobel-climb.html
Swiss stocks advanced to a two-
month high as  Germany  backed an enhanced rescue fund for the
euro area and U.S. economic data exceeded forecasts.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, jumped more than 2 percent.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the world’s
biggest maker of drug ingredients, advanced 3.1 percent. Nobel
Biocare AG, the second-largest maker of dental implants by
sales, rallied 6.7 percent as UBS said it prefers its shares to
those of rival Straumann Holding AG.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, climbed 1 percent to 5,608.6 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, after earlier falling as much as 0.5
percent. The gauge has tumbled 17 percent from its peak on Feb.
18 as the global recovery showed signs of faltering and the
Greek debt crisis eluded resolution. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also gained 0.9 percent today.  “There are questions how this debt is going to be dealt
with and the Europeans have a clear calendar, a clear plan as to
how they want to move forward,”  Vikram Pandit , chief executive
officer of Citigroup Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Susan Li. “Our core view remains the way it has
been for a while, which is that the Europeans will figure it
out. They’ll get through the debt crisis and they’ll get to the
other side being fully committed to the euro.”  Germany’s lower house of parliament passed the expansion of
the rescue fund with 523 votes in favor and 85 against, granting
the fund powers to buy bonds in secondary markets, enable bank
recapitalizations and offer precautionary credit lines.  U.S. Economy   A U.S. report today showed the U.S. economy grew at a 1.3
percent pace in the second quarter and initial applications for
jobless benefits dropped by 37,000 in the week ended Sept. 24 to
391,000. Both numbers tempered concern the economic rebound was
in jeopardy.  Even so, global investors anticipate  Europe ’s debt crisis
leading to an economic slump, a financial meltdown and social
unrest in the next year with 72 percent predicting a country
abandoning the euro as a shared currency within five years, a
Bloomberg survey found.  About three-quarters of those questioned this week said the
euro-area economy will fall into recession during the next 12
months and 53 percent said turmoil will worsen in a banking
sector laden with  government bonds , according to the quarterly
Global Poll of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. Forty percent see the 17-nation currency
bloc losing at least one member in the next year.  Banks Gain  Financial shares rose, with UBS jumping 2.6 percent to
11.30 Swiss francs and Credit Suisse adding 3.4 percent to 24.96
francs.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  gained 3.4 percent to 104.30
francs.  Lonza added 3.1 percent to 57.45 francs. The company said
it received antitrust clearance in France for its tender offer
for 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Arch Chemicals Inc.  Nobel Biocare jumped 6.7 percent to 9.40 francs after UBS
analyst Martin Wales added the company to the brokerage’s “most
preferred” list, while adding its rival, Straumann, to its
“least preferred” list.  Swiss Re AG, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, gained
3.9 percent to 43.70 francs. Chief Executive Officer Stefan Lippe said he is seeking to spend more of his company’s capital
on underwriting as rival  Warren Buffett  allocated cash to
buybacks. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway is the No. 4 reinsurer in
the world.  ‘Significant Opportunities’  “We assume there will be significant opportunities, and it
will be very easy for us” to deploy capital in the business,
Lippe said yesterday in an interview. A buyback is “part of our
tool kit. But at the moment we’d rather like to explore the
other possibilities we have.”  Adecco SA, the staffing company part-owned by the Jacobs
family, added 3.8 percent to 38.55 francs. The company generated
19 percent of its revenue from  North America  in 2010.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, slumped
5.8 percent to 325 francs as luxury-goods companies retreated.
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier brand,
declined 6.7 percent to 43.21 francs. The stock was cut to
“hold” from “buy” by Shamil Ismail, an analyst at Cadiz
Securities.  Most global investors predict Chinese growth will slow to
less than half the pace sustained since the government began
dismantling Mao Zedong’s communist economy three decades ago,
the Bloomberg poll indicated. Fifty-nine percent of respondents
said  China ’s gross domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last
quarter, will gain less than 5 percent annually by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  