-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 17 as Europe, Russia Near UN Resolution Pressing Assad

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-29T10:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/syrian-forces-kill-17-as-europe-russia-near-un-resolution-pressing-assad.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 17 protesters yesterday as Europeans in the  United Nations 
 Security Council  moved toward agreement with  Russia  and  China  on
a resolution pressing Syria to halt the violence.  The killings took place yesterday in the central
governorate of Homs, the northern province of Idlib and southern
area of Daraa, part of a crackdown on protests against President
Bashar al-Assad’s government that began seven months ago,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone today.  Envoys from Britain, France,  Germany  and Portugal said late
yesterday that they would circulate a new draft resolution that
takes into account Russia’s concerns about their threat to
impose sanctions on Syria’s government.  “We are very close,” Ambassador Baso Sangqu of  South
Africa , a Security Council member, said after a two-hour meeting
in  New York  yesterday. “Something will emerge.”  The protests in Syria are part of the wave of unrest across
the  Middle East  and North Africa that unseated governments in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. Assad’s crackdown has left more than
3,600 civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have
been detained and 13,000 are still being held, according to
Qurabi and Merhi.  Ambassador Stranded  The U.S. ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, was stranded in
the office of opposition lawyer Hasan Abdul-Azim in Damascus
today when government supporters surrounded it, Merhi said.
Ford, contacted by Bloomberg News by telephone as the incident
was reported on Al Arabiya television, declined to comment.
Merhi said the pro-Assad crowd surrounded the house and
attempted to break the door down before state security forces
arrived.  There are reports in the last three days of clashes between
security forces and Syrians who have defected from them, Merhi
said. Al Arabiya television broadcast video today of army
defectors saying they had attacked and killed agents of the
government and freed 27 children and their teacher. Merhi said
he could not verify if the statements were true.  At the UN, Sangqu said the new draft won’t impose sanctions
automatically, allowing for some flexibility before they are
triggered. European countries abandoned a measure circulated
last month that would have imposed an arms embargo, travel ban
and asset freeze, replacing it on Sept. 27 with a text that
“expresses determination” to impose sanctions in the event the
violence continues.  ‘Resolution With Teeth’  “It can be done,” Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said
of a possible agreement. The  Security Council  is due to meet
again today, with a vote possible as early as tomorrow.  The U.S., unhappy with the willingness of the Europeans to
soften the proposed resolution, wants “a resolution with
teeth” that will make it “absolutely clear to the Assad regime
that the violence has to end,” State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in  Washington .  “This is a regime that remains determined to control every
significant aspect of political life in Syria,” Simon Collis,
the U.K. ambassador to Syria, said in a blog he began this week.
“It is used to power. And it will do anything to keep it.”  Representatives of the 15  Security Council  member
governments are scheduled to meet today on what will be the
third version of a European draft resolution, with a vote
possible as early as tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net 
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  