-- 
Syria Forces Kill 17 Protesters as U.S. Envoy’s Car Is Attacked

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-29T11:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/syria-forces-kill-17-protesters-as-u-s-envoy-s-car-is-attacked.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 17 protesters yesterday and the U.S. ambassador’s car was
attacked in Damascus today by government supporters.  Ambassador  Robert Ford , a critic of President Bashar al- Assad, was stranded in the office of opposition lawyer Hasan
Abdul-Azim when government supporters surrounded it, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by
phone today. The incident came as the United Nations  Security
Council  prepares to debate a resolution condemning Syrian
violence against protesters.  Ford escaped unharmed though his car was damaged after it
was pelted with rocks, eggs and sticks, a person familiar with
the situation said.  Security forces killed protesters yesterday in the central
governorate of Homs, the northern province of Idlib and southern
area of Daraa, Merhi said.  The protests in Syria are part of the wave of unrest across
the  Middle East  and North Africa that unseated governments in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . Assad’s crackdown has left more than
3,600 civilians dead since the unrest began in March, according
to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria. About 30,000 people have been detained and 13,000 are
still being held, according to Qurabi and Merhi.  The  Security Council  is due to debate today what will be
the third version of a European draft resolution, with a vote
possible as early as tomorrow. Diplomats from  Security Council 
members said they are optimistic agreement can be reached, after
European countries agreed to ease demands for sanctions that had
been opposed by Russia and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  