-- 
U.K. Stocks Fall for Second Day; Mining Companies Lead Decline

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-29T16:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-k-stocks-fall-for-second-day-mining-companies-lead-decline.html
U.K stocks declined for a second
day as mining companies retreated amid concern that a slowdown
in  China’s economy  could damp demand for commodities.  Copper producers  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Rio Tinto
Group fell as the base metal declined in London and Peru
introduced a law creating a mining windfall tax.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) 
rose 2.9 percent after forecasting profitable growth.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 20.79, or 0.4 percent,
to 5,196.84 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has
tumbled 15 percent from its high this year on Feb. 8. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also slid 0.4 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.4 percent.  “Concerns about a possible hard landing for the Chinese
economy has weighed on mining stocks,”  David Jones , chief
marketing strategist at IG Index, wrote in an e-mail. “It is
difficult to see a catalyst for further gains in the short
term.”  Stocks in  London  broke ranks with other European markets
that rose on better-than-forecast U.S. economic data. The  U.S.
economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, faster
than expected, and initial jobless benefit claims fell to the
lowest in five months. The FTSE 100 swung between gains and
losses six times during the day.  Chinese Worries  Most global investors predict Chinese growth will slow to
less than half the pace sustained since the government began
dismantling Mao Zedong’s communist economy three decades ago, a
Bloomberg poll indicated. Fifty-nine percent of respondents said
China’s gross domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last
quarter, will gain less than 5 percent annually by 2016.  Mining stocks retreated as copper declined for the ninth
day in 10.  Rio Tinto , the world’s second-largest mining company,
declined 3 percent to 2,966.5 pence and Xstrata slipped 3.9
percent 845.1 pence. Antofagasta, a Chilean copper miner, fell
3.2 percent to 958.5 pence.  In Peru, the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer
and the second-biggest silver producer, President Ollanta Humala
signed a law creating a minding windfall tax that will finance
increased public spending.  British banks rose after Germany voted for expanding the
scope of the euro region’s rescue fund. Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Barclays Plc rose 1.7 percent each to 24.5 pence
and 169.15 pence, respectively.  BP Drops  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-biggest oil producer, fell 2
percent to 391.8 pence. Indian newspaper the Economic Times
cited Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley as saying BP will
discuss selling some of its assets to Reliance Industries Ltd.
as it seeks to deepen its partnership with India’s largest
private sector company.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest hedge fund, dropped 2.2
percent to 176 pence following a 25 percent plunge yesterday
when the company said assets under management will drop by 8.5
percent.  Tate & Lyle, the maker of low-calorie sweetener Splenda,
climbed 2.9 percent to 630.5 pence after maintaining its
forecast for “another year of profitable growth.”  International Consolidated Airlines Group, the owner of
British Airways and Iberia, rose 3.8 percent to 159.7 pence as
the shares were rated “overweight” in new coverage at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  