-- 
U.K. House Prices Little Changed This Month, Nationwide Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-29T10:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-k-housing-market-s-downside-risks-have-increased-on-weakening-economy.html
U.K. house prices were little
changed in September and “downside risks” to the  property
market  have increased as economic prospects weaken,  Nationwide
Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home rose 0.1 percent from August to
166,256 pounds ($260,000), the Swindon, England-based customer-
owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. From a year
earlier, values were down 0.3 percent.  The outlook for the property market has darkened as the
euro-area debt crisis weighs on the economy and pushes up banks’
funding costs. While data today showed U.K. mortgage approvals
rose in August to the highest in 20 months as record low
borrowing costs supported housing demand, they’re still only
about half the monthly average in the decade to 2007, before the
financial crisis struck.  “Downside risks have increased as U.K. and global growth
prospects have weakened,” Nationwide Chief Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “There is also a risk that, if the
euro-zone situation continues to deteriorate, it could affect
the cost and availability of credit.”  Lenders granted 52,410 loans to buy U.K. homes, the most
since December 2009, compared with 49,644 in July, the  Bank of
England  said. Economists had forecast approvals would rise to
49,700, based on the median forecast of 18 estimates in
Bloomberg News survey.  The pound was trading at $1.5673 as of 11:02 a.m. in
London, up 0.6 percent on the day.  Cooling Recovery  The British property market has struggled to gain momentum
as the cooling recovery, accelerating inflation and government
budget cuts weaken  consumer confidence . Average monthly
approvals amounted to 103,000 in the decade to 2007.  The Bank of England held its key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent this month. The Bank of England’s Credit
Conditions survey published yesterday showed that the
availability of secured lending to households increased in the
three months to early September, as did demand for mortgages.
Nationwide’s Gardner said today that low borrowing costs
“should continue to provide support for housing demand,
providing the strains in the banking system do not intensify.”  Lenders should use “any opportunity” to raise capital and
liquidity amid “severe strains” in markets, the central bank’s
Financial Policy Committee said yesterday. In the event of a
shock, it “would be natural for banks’ capital and liquidity
ratios to be run down to ensure that lending” isn’t
constrained, it said.  “The outlook for the global economy has darkened,”
Gardner said. “The main channel through which these market
gyrations are likely to impact the housing market is by further
denting sentiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  