-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises for First Time in Four Months

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-30T07:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-k-consumer-confidence-increases-as-economic-optimism-improves-gfk-says.html
U.K. consumer confidence rose for
the first time in four months in September as Britons became
more optimistic about the economic outlook and spending, GfK NOP
Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment gained 1 point from August to minus
30, the London-based research group said in an e-mailed report
today. A measure of households’ expectations for the economy
over the coming 12 months climbed 4 points to minus 27 and a
gauge of households’ assessment of whether this is a time to
make major purchases climbed three points to minus 28.  “Despite growing fears about the global economy, British
consumers are feeling a little more hopeful about the state of
the home economy,” GfK Social Research Managing Director Nick Moon said. “With economic growth effectively stalled at the
moment, retailers would welcome more high street activity.”  GfK said that while the increase is not statistically
significant, it is “psychologically important” as it halts a
recent decline in sentiment. Still,  Bank of England  policy
makers have indicated they are becoming more concerned that the
recovery will cool further and most of them said this month that
they see expanding stimulus as “increasingly probable.”  Pound Declines  The increase in September still leaves the confidence 10
points lower than September last year. The minus 30 reading is
also below the minus 25 average of the last three years. A
European Commission report yesterday showed U.K. household
sentiment declined in September. It’s gauge fell to minus 21.7,
the lowest since April, from minus 19.8.  The pound fell 0.6 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.5542 as of 8:17 a.m. in London. It’s still headed
for its first weekly gain in six weeks against the U.S.
currency.  Britons’ confidence has been undermined this year by
inflation that is almost double wage growth and the largest
government budget squeeze since World War II. A retail-sales
index fell to its lowest level in 16 months in September as
consumers cut back spending on clothes and groceries, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said on Sept. 27.  The Bank of England held its bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($314 billion) this month. It also left its key
 interest rate  at 0.5 percent, helping to provide support to the
housing market. Data from the central bank yesterday showed U.K.
mortgage approvals rose in August to the highest in 20 months.  A gauge of Britons’ view of their personal financial
situation over the next 12 months rose 1 point to minus 10,
while a measure of their view of the economy over the past year
slipped 1 point to minus 58 in September from August, GfK said.  The research group questioned 2,007 Britons between Sept. 2
and Sept. 11 for today’s survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  