-- 
U.K. to Delay Publishing Some Economic Data Amid Revisions

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-29T12:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-k-to-delay-publishing-some-economic-data-amid-revisions.html
The U.K.’s  Office for National
Statistics  will delay the release of some economic data as it
undertakes the biggest reassessment of the national accounts
since 1995.  Second-quarter gross-domestic-product data to be published
Oct. 5 will exclude some detail in areas such as net lending,
the statistics office said at a briefing in  London  today. Most
of the suite of publications known as the “Blue Book” will be
released on Nov. 23 instead of the initially planned Nov. 1.  The Bank of  England , U.K. Treasury and  Office for Budget
Responsibility  were advised of the need for a delay on Sept. 7
as officials restate data back to 1997, ONS Chief Economist  Joe
Grice  said. The change will deprive the central bank of some
data it would expect to have in its November forecasting round.  “The amount of work in some areas was enormous,” Grice
said. “The feedback was that any delay was not helpful, but
they were also clear that the priority was for well-considered
figures rather than figures that would be rushed.”  The  Bank of England  will publish new economic and inflation
forecasts on Nov. 16. The GDP data next week will include
details on output, expenditure and income, and exclude “sector
accounts” tables. Asked about the delay, Grice said it was not
due to budget constraints or staff shortages.  Publication of economic accounts and balance of payments
scheduled for Oct. 5 will be delayed to Oct. 25. The
environmental chapters in the 2011 Blue Book will be available
as normal on Nov. 1, as will some of the supply-use tables, with
the rest available on Nov. 23.  While the ONS normally revises some data, it’s using this
year’s Blue Book to bring its statistics in line with European
Union regulations. Officials declined to say what impact the
changes would have on next week’s GDP report.  The changes include switching the deflator to the  Consumer
Price Index  from the Retail Price Index, and reclassifying some
industries, such as publishing, to reflect the shift in the
economy toward services from manufacturing. More detail will be
provided on activities such as accountancy and legal services,
and there will be better data on derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  