-- 
U.K. Mortgage Approvals Climb More Than Forecast to 20-Month High on Rates

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-29T11:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rise-more-than-forecast-to-20-month-high.html
U.K. mortgage approvals rose in
August to the highest in 20 months as borrowing costs at a
record low helped provide support to the housing market.  Lenders granted 52,410 loans to buy homes, the most since
December 2009, compared with a revised 49,644 in July, the Bank
of England said today in  London . Economists forecast that
approvals would rise to 49,700 from an initially reported 49,239
in July, based on the median forecast of 18 economists in
Bloomberg News survey.  The Bank of England kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5
percent this month, which  Nationwide Building Society  said today
should help support demand for property. Still, it reported that
U.K. home prices were little changed in September and said
“downside risks” to the housing market have increased due to
the economic slowdown.  “Low interest rates continue to provide support for prices
by preventing widespread forced sales,” said Robyn Daniell, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. Still, “mortgage
lending remains at a subdued level. We doubt this marks the
beginning of a new trend. Against the deteriorating wider
economic outlook, further house price falls are likely.”  Mortgage lending rose by 600 million pounds ($940 million)
in August from July, when it increased by 700 million pounds,
the  Bank of England  said. Consumer credit rose by 500 million
pounds.  Housing Momentum  The pound was trading at $1.5643 as of 12:08 p.m. in
London, up 0.4 percent on the day.  The Bank of England has set its benchmark rate at 0.5
percent since March 2009. Still, the  property market  has
struggled to gain momentum as the cooling recovery, accelerating
inflation and government budget cuts weaken  consumer confidence .
While mortgage approvals increased last month, the reading is
only about half the monthly average in the decade to 2007,
before the financial crisis struck.  The Bank of England said in a report yesterday based on a
survey of lenders that the availability of  secured credit  to
households increased in the three months to early September, as
did demand for mortgages. It added that banks “pointed to
adverse wholesale conditions as a key factor which might
constrain future lending” to households and companies.  Bank Funding  Nationwide Chief Economist  Robert Gardner  also highlighted
the increase in bank funding costs as a possible constraint on
housing. Low borrowing costs “should continue to provide
support for housing demand, providing the strains in the banking
system do not intensify,” he said in a statement today.  Nationwide’s report showed that the average cost of a home
rose 0.1 percent in September from the previous month and was
down 0.3 percent on the year.  U.K. economic growth slowed in the second quarter and
recent indicators of consumer confidence, manufacturing and
services have all weakened.  Deteriorating prospects prompted Bank of England official
Ben Broadbent to say this week that he was “reasonably close”
to joining  Adam Posen  in voting for more bond purchases at this
month’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting. Fellow MPC member
 David Miles  said the argument for more QE is “finely balanced”
in an interview published in the London-based Times newspaper
yesterday.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the bank uses to assess
the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to 2.3 percent
in the three months through August on an annualized basis,
today’s report said. That compares with a 3.7 percent rate in
the three months through July. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 fell 0.2 percent on the month in August and was
down 0.6 percent on the year, the Bank of England said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  