-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Sept. 27 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-09-29T12:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-sept-27-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  A number of rain events moved across the country again this
Drought Monitor week. While the West remained mostly dry, areas
of the Midwest, Southeast, and Northeast saw areas of much above
normal precipitation.  The Southeast: Large areas of rain moved through the Southeast
this week with some areas seeing rain almost every day.  The
most intense precipitation fell from September 22-24 and spread
from  Alabama  and  Georgia , across much of the Carolinas and into
the Mid-Atlantic.  This rain improved areas of Abnormal Dryness
(D0) and Moderate Drought (D1) in northern Alabama, as well as
widespread improvement in Abnormal Dryness (D0), Moderate
Drought (D1), and to a lesser extend Severe Drought (D2) across
the Carolinas.  Southern Virginia saw an improvement in Moderate
Drought (D1).   Conditions continued to improve in  Kentucky  with
this week’s rainfall reflected in reductions in Abnormal Dryness
(D0) and Moderate Drought (D1).  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Adequate rains fell this week
the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.  No changes were made in the
drought status in this area.  The South:   Oklahoma  was the lucky recipient of multiple rain
events this week, something that has not happened in quite a
while.  While these events did lead to minor improvement in
Extreme Drought (D3) in eastern Oklahoma, the precipitation
deficits remain large and the impacts wide-spread.  No
improvement was made in the rest of the state. This same series
of storms also moved through  Arkansas  and southern  Missouri .
While it did improve short and long-term precipitation deficits
some, impacts, especially to agriculture, are still extreme.
Despite the rain, recent impact information led to the
elimination of improvements made last week in this area.
Conditions in  Kansas  degraded slightly in the central part of
the state with a slight expansion of Abnormal Dryness (D0),
Moderate (D1) and Severe (D2) Drought.  In  Texas , mounting
dryness in the south, around Brownsville and Beaumont, led to
slight degradation of drought conditions. In Texas, 96% of the
Pasture and Range land is considered to be in Poor or Very Poor
condition, an slight change from last week’s 98%.   In Oklahoma,
the total is 90% (94% last week).  The Plains and Midwest: Conditions in the Northern Plains
deteriorated some this week while in the Midwest, conditions
improved slightly. Minnesota saw expansion of Abnormal Dryness
(D0) in the southern part of the state.  Additional beneficial
precipitation this week led to wide improvement in Abnormal
Dryness (D0), Moderate (D1) and Severe (D2) Drought across
Illinois and  Indiana .  The West: The West was generally dry this week with the
exception of the extreme Northwest and isolated thunderstorm
activity across the region.  Drought conditions remain unchanged
this week.  Hawaii , Alaska and  Puerto Rico : Drought conditions remained
unchanged in Alaska and Puerto Rico this week.  In Hawaii,
mounting agricultural impacts led to the introduction of Extreme
Drought (D3) in the northwest of the Big Island and the
introduction of Moderate Drought (D1) in western Oahu.  Looking Ahead: During the September 28 - October 3, 2011 time
period, there is an enhanced probability of precipitation
limited to the Northeast, the Northwest, and the extreme
Southwest, early in the period.  Later, the above-normal
probability of precipitation encompasses most of the West and is
eliminated in the Northeast.  Below normal temperatures are
expected in the eastern part of the country early in the period.
Later, the chances shift to near-normal.  In the West and
central part of the country, temperatures are expected to be
above normal throughout the period.  For the ensuing 5 days (October 4 - October 8, 2011), the odds
favor cooler-than-normal conditions over much of the Southeast
and along the West Coast.  Warmer-than-normal to normal
conditions are expected across the West, through the Plains and
into the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast. The odds of above-normal
precipitation are limited to the West and primarily in the
Northwest.  Normal to below-normal precipitation is expected
across the Southwest, through the center of the country and
along the East Coast.  In  Alaska , the odds favor above normal
precipitation across the southern part of the state.  Below-
normal temperatures are expected in the same part in the
southern part of the state.  The northern part of the state is
expecting above-normal temperatures.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  