-- 
U.S. Decries Salaries, Staffing in New UN Budget

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-29T18:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-decries-excessive-salaries-in-new-un-budget.html
The Obama administration told the
 United Nations  that too few of its 10,307 workers are being cut
and average salaries, currently $119,000 a year, have risen
“dramatically.”  The U.S. ambassador for UN management and reform, Joseph M. Torsella, said today that the proposed $5.2 billion UN budget
for the next two years would scrap only 44 jobs, a 0.4 percent
reduction. After an “onslaught” of add-ons, the 2012-13 budget
would rise more than 2 percent to $5.5 billion, he said.  “That is not a break from ‘business as usual’ but a
continuation of it,” Torsella said in a speech in  New York  to
the UN’s administrative and budgetary committee. “How does
management intend to bring these numbers and costs back in
line?”  The Obama administration, he said, “calls for a
comprehensive, department-by-department, line-by-line review of
this budget” and a new process to approve UN funding.  “It is our obligation to our taxpayers to do more with
less in  Washington  and here at the UN,” he said.  Torsella’s attack on UN salaries and workforce size follows
legislation introduced by U.S.  House Republicans  on Aug. 30
that, if passed into law, would have the U.S. withhold a
percentage of its contributions until at least 80 percent of the
UN budget is voluntary.  U.S. Share  While pressing for savings in the UN budget, the Obama
administration is opposed to withholding U.S. funding. That
approach to forcing UN reform is “fundamentally flawed in
concept and practice, sets it back, is self-defeating, and
doesn’t work,” U.S. Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice , said on
Sept. 13.  The U.S. pays 22 percent of the UN’s regular operating
budget and is assessed 27 percent of the peacekeeping budget.
U.S. payments totaled $3.35 billion in 2010, of which $2.67
billion was dedicated to the 16 peacekeeping operations
worldwide, from South Sudan to  Haiti .  Torsella also complained about receiving the UN budget
proposal in a “piecemeal fashion” with “too little financial
analysis.” He cited, as an example, not knowing how much the UN
spends on health-care benefits for its employees.  Calling personnel the “largest and most important driver
of long-term costs,” Torsella said those expenses increased to
$2.4 billion in the 2010-11 budget from $1.4 billion a decade
earlier.  Republican Plan  Legislation by  Florida ’s Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the
Republican chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
demands that the UN let countries decide how much to pay and
which programs they will support, rather than assessing payments
based on a formula. It would end funding for Palestinian
refugees, limit use of U.S. funds only to purposes outlined by
Congress and put a hold on creating or expanding peacekeeping
operations until management changes are made.  In 2006, President  George W. Bush ’s ambassador to the UN,
 John Bolton , said the U.S. might push to make contributions to
the UN budget voluntary. Bolton also focused on peacekeeping
operations, holding hearings on reports of sexual exploitation
by UN peacekeepers in  Africa  and up to $300 million in
unnecessary purchases of equipment and supplies for peacekeeping
missions.  Also in 2006, House lawmakers called for withholding half
of the $429 million in U.S. funding for the UN’s regular
operations that year in an attempt to force changes in the world
body. At the time, criticism was focused on evidence of graft in
the $64 billion UN program that allowed  Iraq ’s  Saddam Hussein  to
use oil money from 1996 to 2003 to buy food and medical supplies
for his people.  Anger over the scandal drove a 60-member group in the House
to sponsor a resolution calling for the resignation of then
Secretary-General Kofi Annan.  An attempt in the House in 2006 to pass legislation tying
payments to UN management changes failed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  