-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Declines on Recession Concern

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-29T12:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-declines-on-recession-concern.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Declines on Concern Possible Recession Will Damp Demand  Copper dropped for a second day in  London  on concern a
global recession will affect demand for industrial metals.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  BTA Seeks $1 Billion From Farmer Amid Fight With Ex-Chairman (1)  BTA Bank is suing a farmer from a “distant village” in
Belarus to wrest control of assets it alleges were pilfered by
former management before the Kazakh lender defaulted on $12
billion of debt two years ago.  OMV Pays 58 Million Euros to Boost Stake in Tunisian Concession  OMV AG, central Europe’s biggest energy company, paid 58
million euros to boost its stake in the south Tunisian Durra
concession, the company said.  LME Says ‘Expressions of Interest’ Exceed 10, Board to Meet (1)  The London Metal Exchange, the 134 year-old bourse handling
80 percent of global trade in metals futures, said it got more
than 10 “expressions of interest” and may recommend a bid to
shareholders as early as March.  Denmark Creates Rescue Fund for Crisis-Hit Farming Industry (1)  Denmark’s farming council is planning to set up a fund to
prevent the country’s agricultural industry from collapsing as
bank credit dries up.  Notore Chemical of  Nigeria  Plans Initial Public Offering in 2012  Notore Chemical Industries Ltd. of Nigeria, a producer of
fertilizer, plans to raise at least $300 million “sometime next
year” in an initial public offering to finance its expansion,
an official said.  Rare Earths Fall as Toyota Develops Alternatives: Commodities  Rare-earth prices are set to extend their decline from
records this year as buyers including Toyota Motor Corp. and
General Electric Co. scale back using the materials in their
cars and windmills.  Saudi Crude for  Fuel Oil  Nearing 22-Month High: Energy Markets  Saudi Arabian heavy crude sold to  Asia  may be headed for
its highest level in 22 months relative to benchmark  Middle East 
grades as the kingdom capitalizes on growing demand for fuel
oil.  Billionaire Potanin May Seek Norilsk Control After Buyback (1)  Billionaire Vladimir Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. may
seek control of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel after a $4.5 billion
buyback and stock cancellation, gaining the upper hand in a
shareholder dispute with United Co. Rusal.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Tin Smelters in  Indonesia  Load Shipments Ahead of Export Halt  Eight tin smelters in Indonesia’s Bangka island may load
about 2,000 metric tons of refined metal before an export
suspension comes into force on Oct. 1, with no shipments
permitted after that date, industry executives said.  MINING:  Freeport McMoRan’s Peru Copper Miners to Strike Over Wages (1)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s copper miners in  Peru 
will go on strike today after wage talks collapsed, their third
stoppage this month, while workers in Indonesia will resume
negotiations, union officials said.  Alumina Gains on Speculation Company May Be Takeover Target (1)  Alumina Ltd., partner in the world’s biggest producer of
the material used to make aluminum, rose the most in two years
on speculation that recent price falls have made the company a
takeover target.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains as Slide Below $1,600 Spurs Physical, Investor Demand  Gold gained in London as the metal’s drop below $1,600 an
ounce boosted physical purchases and as investors sought a
protection of wealth from Europe’s debt woes.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Gains as Dry U.S. Plains Weather May Cut Winter Planting  Wheat gained, reversing earlier losses, on speculation that
persistent dry weather in the U.S. southern Great Plains will
curb planting of the winter crop and reduce production.  Palm Oil  Declines on Concern Global Slowdown May Hurt Demand  Palm oil dropped to the lowest level in almost a year,
heading for a third quarterly decline, on concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will hurt global growth and reduce demand
for commodities.  Coffee Retreats as  Vietnam ’s Crop May Be a Record; Cocoa Slides  Robusta coffee fell for a second day in London on
speculation a record crop in Vietnam, the world’s largest
producer of the variety, will weigh on the price. White sugar
and cocoa slid.  Rubber Drops to 13-Month Low as Europe Crisis May Stall Recovery  Rubber tumbled to a 13-month low, heading for the worst
quarterly loss since 2008, as concern grew that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may deepen, sending global economies into a recession and
damping raw-material demand.  Russia Grain, Pulses Harvest at 86.4 Million Tons, Ministry Says  Russian farmers harvested 86.4 million metric tons of
grains and pulses as of yesterday, about 46 percent more than a
year earlier, the  Agriculture Ministry  said.  China  Seen Needing ‘Huge Effort’ to Meet Increasing Corn Demand  China, the world’s second-biggest user and producer of
corn, will need a “huge effort” to meet growing demand as
consumers eat more meat products, the Ministry of Agriculture
said.  SHIPPING:  Piracy Victims to Be Helped by Humanitarian Effort in London  The Maritime Piracy Humanitarian Response Programme was
formed to help seafarers and their families cope with trauma
from pirate attacks.  Shell Said to Stop  Singapore  Refinery Terminal Operation on Fire  Royal Dutch Shell Plc halted all oil-terminal operations at
its Pulau Bukom refining complex in Singapore after a fire broke
out yesterday, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because the information is
confidential.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Drop Spurs Record Slide in Dim Sum Bonds: China Credit  Yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  are headed for a record
monthly loss, erasing gains for the year, as a worsening outlook
for the global economy fuels concern China will slow the pace of
its currency’s appreciation.  China Economic Growth Seen Less Than 5% by 2016 in Global Poll  Most global investors predict Chinese growth will slow to
less than half the pace sustained since the government began
dismantling Mao Zedong’s communist economy three decades ago, a
Bloomberg poll indicated.  Europe Meltdown Converging With Slump Seen by Investors in Poll  Global investors anticipate Europe’s debt crisis leading to
an economic slump, a financial meltdown and social unrest in the
next year with 72 percent predicting a country abandoning the
euro as a shared currency within five years, a Bloomberg survey
found.  Germany  Backs Euro Rescue Fund to Set Stage for Next Steps  German lawmakers approved an expansion of the euro-area
rescue fund’s firepower, freeing the way for European officials
to focus on what next steps may be needed to stem the debt
crisis.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Rises as German Lawmakers Approve Expansion of Bailout Fund  The euro rose toward a one-week high versus the dollar as
Germany’s lower house of parliament approved the expansion of a
bailout fund for debt-stricken euro-area nations to help contain
the sovereign-debt crisis.  Sony Says It Expects ‘Huge Impact’ on Profit From Euro Slump (2)  Sony Corp.,  Japan ’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, said it expects a “huge impact” on earnings from
the weaker euro, underscoring the company’s vulnerability to the
European debt crisis.  European Stocks Rise as Germany Backs Enhanced Euro Rescue Fund  European stocks increased for the fourth time in five days
after German lawmakers backed an enhanced euro-region rescue
fund. Asian shares and U.S. index futures advanced.  IPOs Shelved at Record Pace Globally as Offer Pipeline Balloons  Companies canceled or postponed $8.9 billion in initial
public offerings in the third quarter as stocks plunged, putting
the market on pace to set a record for pulled deals.  Oil Advances on Bets Europe Rescue Plan Will Temper Debt Crisis  Oil climbed in  New York , paring its biggest quarterly drop
since 2008, on speculation that an expanded European bail-out
fund, approved by German lawmakers today, will support economic
growth and fuel demand.  Turkish Government Studying Local Car Proposals, Ergun Says  Turkey ’s government will study proposals from the
Automotive Manufacturers Association on ways to develop a local
car brand, Industry Minister Nihat Ergun said.  Turkish Government, Opposition Agree on Constitution Priority  Turkey’s government and the main opposition party agreed
that a new constitution should be a legislative priority for the
parliament when it reconvenes Oct. 1, Omer Celik, leader of the
government’s negotiating team said.  SPORTS:  QPR Co-Owner Bhatia Keen to Sign  David Beckham : Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Billionaire’s Anzhi Soccer Club Names Roberto Carlos as Coach  Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s Anzhi Makhachkala soccer
club named  Brazil ’s former World Cup-winning defender Roberto
Carlos as its coach.  FIFA Looks at Soccer Fund Run by Ex-Chelsea CEO, Ronaldo’s Agent  Soccer’s ruling body is examining an investment fund set up
by former Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Peter Kenyon to see if
it violates the sport’s rules, according to a FIFA official who
declined to be identified.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  