-- 
U.S. Second Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-29T12:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-second-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the text of the
technical note of the Gross Domestic Product from the
Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about
the source data and estimating methods used to
produce the estimates presented in the GDP news release.
The complete set of estimates for the second
quarter is available on BEA's Web site at www.bea.gov; a
brief summary of "highlights" is also posted
on the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be
published in BEA's monthly journal, the Survey
of Current Business, along with a more detailed analysis
of the estimates ("GDP and the Economy").  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.3 percent (annual rate) in the second
quarter, which was 0.3 percentage point more
than last months estimate.  The upward revision to GDP
primarily reflected an upward revision to personal
consumption expenditures (PCE), a downward revision to
imports, and an upward revision to exports.  The upward revision to PCE was more than accounted
for by PCE for services.  Within PCE for services, the
revision reflected upward revisions to recreation services
and to electricity and gas that were partly offset by a
downward revision to financial services and insurance.
These revisions reflected newly available quarterly
services survey data for the second quarter from the
Census Bureau, newly available natural gas usage and unit
value data for June and revised data for May from EIA,
newly available second-quarter Call Report data from the
FDIC, and newly available second-quarter FOCUS
report data from the SEC.  The downward revision to imports was to both goods
and services and reflected revised Census goods data for
June and second-quarter services data from BEAs
international transactions accounts.  The upward revision to exports was more than
accounted for by services and reflected the services data
from BEAs international transactions accounts.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases the prices
paid by U.S. residents for goods and services wherever
Produced increased 3.3 percent in the second quarter, the
same increase as last months estimate.  Corporate Profits and Gross Domestic Income  Profits from current production increased $61.2 billion,
or 3.3 percent (quarterly rate), in the second quarter.
Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $54.2
billion, domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations
increased $80.8 billion, and rest-of-the-world profits
increased $34.6 billion.  Real gross domestic income (GDI) increased 1.3 percent in
the second quarter, the same increase as GDP.  GDI
measures output as the costs incurred and the incomes
earned in the production of GDP.  In theory, GDP should
equal GDI, but in practice, they can differ because they
are estimated using largely independent and
less-than-perfect source data.  Change in Source Data for Investment in Aircraft  Within private fixed investment in equipment, the
quarterly estimates of aircraft investment have been
based,
in part, on the value of complete aircraft shipments from
the Census Bureaus Current Industrial Report (CIR)
program.  The Census Bureau terminated the CIR program,
and the final aircraft data through the month of July
were released on September 9, 2011.  As a result,
beginning with the third quarter of 2011, BEAs current
quarterly estimates of private fixed investment in
aircraft will be based on data from the Census Bureaus
ManufacturersüEShipments, Inventories, and Orders (M3) on
nondefense aircraft shipments.  For more information,
see the FAQ on BEAs Web site, how will the discontinuation
of the Census Current Industrial Reports affect
BEAs quarterly estimates of private fixed investment in
aircraft?üE  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  