-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Slumps on Concern Financial Conditions Worsening

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-29T20:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-consumer-confidence-hits-second-weakest-on-record-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer confidence  slumped last
week to the second-lowest level on record as Americans grew more
concerned with their financial situation and the buying climate
worsened.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 53 in
the period ended Sept. 25 from minus 52.1 the prior week.
Another report showed the economy grew at a faster pace in the
second quarter than previously estimated.  The comfort gauge showed the share of households saying it
was a bad time to buy needed goods and services climbed to the
highest level in three years, raising the risk that the biggest
part of the economy will slow heading into the  holiday shopping
season . A lack of jobs and growing concern that policy makers
will be unable to spur the recovery may keep sentiment
depressed.  “Consumers are frustrated with just about everything,”
said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN Financial in  New York .
“Not only the pace of the economic recovery, but the heightened
unemployment and also the clear lack of leadership in
Washington.”  Stocks rose as  Germany  approved changes to a European
bailout fund. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent
to 1,160.4 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.00
percent from 1.98 percent late yesterday.  More Growth  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, helped by exports and spending on services, a report
from the Commerce Department also showed. The revised rise in
gross domestic product compares with a 1 percent gain previously
calculated and followed a 0.4 percent increase in the first
three months of the year.  The comfort gauge reached similar readings of minus 53
three times in the first half of 2009, when the economy was in
the recession. It is surpassed only by all-time lows of minus 54
plumbed in November 2008 and again in January 2009. Sentiment
among homeowners and part-time workers fell to the lowest in
records dating back to 1990, while married Americans were the
gloomiest in 19 years.  Company executives have also turned less optimistic. The
 Business Roundtable ’s survey of chief executive officers showed
its economic outlook index fell to 77.6 in the third quarter,
the lowest reading since the last three months of 2009, from
109.9 in the previous three months, the Washington-based group
said today. Readings higher than 50 are consistent with economic
expansion. Survey participants reduced forecasts for growth,
employment and business investment.  ‘Slower’ Expansion  “We’re still in the expansion category, albeit at a slower
rate,” Jim McNerney, chairman of the Business Roundtable and
chief executive officer of  Boeing Co. (BA) , said on a conference call
with reporters today. Survey results showing a deterioration in
investment plans should be read as “not that it’s fallen off a
cliff, rather it has moderated,” he said.  Other reports today showed fewer workers filed claims for
jobless benefits last week and the number of signed contracts to
buy existing homes fell in August.  Applications for jobless benefits dropped by 37,000 to
391,000, the fewest since April, a report from the Labor
Department showed.  An agency official said the data probably
reflected a “mistiming” in the seasonal factors used to modify
the figures.  Pending home sales fell 1.2 percent in August after
dropping 1.3 percent the previous month, the National
Association of Realtors said.  Buying Plans  Two of the comfort index’s three components declined. The
measure of personal finances fell to minus 11.6 from minus 7.5.
The buying climate index was minus 61, the lowest level since
the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in
October 2008, compared with minus 59.9 the prior week. The gauge
of American’s views on the economy rose to minus 86.4 from minus
88.9.  Confidence among part-time workers plunged 9.9 points to
minus 72.2. The so-called underemployment rate, which includes
workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who want to
work but have given up looking, rose to 16.2 in August, matching
June as the highest reading this year, Labor Department figures
show.  Homeowner sentiment also dropped to the lowest ever,
falling to minus 49.5 from minus 47.1. Earlier this week, the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 4.1
percent in July from the same month in 2010. The home-price
barometer has dropped for 10 consecutive months.  Shares Slump  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and recent data showing a
weakening U.S. recovery have also fueled deteriorating sentiment
and sent equity markets lower. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
dropped 6.4 percent last week, the worst loss since October
2008.  “Plenty of factors inform the public’s sour economic
views, from gyrations in the stock market, the still-flattened
housing market and declining real incomes to Washington’s games
of chicken over economic remedies,”  Gary Langer , president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. “But the chief
irritant is the jobs market.”  On the political front, the outlook among registered
independent voters fell to the lowest level since October 2009.
Republicans’ confidence also slumped, while Democrats became
less pessimistic.  President  Barack Obama  has been traveling the country this
week to promote his $447 billion job creation plan. Speaking in
Denver on Sept. 27, Obama said the nation needs to reset its
priorities to assure future growth.  The president’s package includes tax cuts and spending
aimed at spurring hiring to trim the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, which has restrained consumers’ spending and
darkened their outlooks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  