-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Jobless Claims Offset Technology Retreat

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-29T20:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-stock-futures-rise-reversing-losses-before-german-vote.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from a
1 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as lower-
than-estimated claims for unemployment benefits helped offset
losses by consumer and technology shares.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  climbed at
least 3 percent as European lenders soared after German
lawmakers backed an enhanced euro-region rescue fund.  General
Electric Co. (GE)  gained 2.7 percent, while  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  added
2.5 percent as jobless claims fell more than forecast and the
 U.S. economy ’s second-quarter expansion topped projections.
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  slid 14 percent after the chipmaker
cut its forecast.  The S&P 500 added 0.8 percent to 1,160.40 at 4 p.m. New
York time after rallying as much as 2.2 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 143.08 points, or 1.3 percent, to
11,153.98. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.4 percent as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  declined 1.6 percent, dropping for a fourth straight day.  “We got two excellent numbers,”  Philip Orlando , the New
York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors
Inc., said about the economic reports in a phone interview. His
firm oversees about $350 billion. “It suggests that we are
coming out of the soft patch and not spiraling into a double-dip
recession.”  Two industries that have beaten the S&P 500 in the third
quarter, computer and software makers as well as companies
reliant on discretionary  consumer spending , fell the most today.
The S&P 500 Information Technology Index lost 0.4 percent,
bringing its two-day drop to 1.8 percent. Among its
constituents, Apple, which rose 16 percent in the quarter, has
dropped 5.5 percent since Sept. 20, while Google Inc., up 4.2
percent for the quarter, slid 2.2 percent in the last two days.  Tiffany, Netflix  Among consumer stocks,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  declined 6.9 percent
today.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  fell 7.3 percent, and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
tumbled 11 percent. Netflix, the movie rental service that has
rallied 194 percent since March 9, 2009, plunged 57 percent in
the third quarter, the second-biggest retreat in the S&P 500
behind Alpha Natural Resources Inc., which decreased 59 percent.  “They’re shooting the last bastions of outperformance,
because consumer stocks have actually done really well,” said
 Dan Veru , who oversees $3.3 billion as chief investment officer
at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC.
“They’re selling the winners that have exposure outside of the
U.S.”  Stocks worldwide are headed for their worst quarterly
performance since the end of 2008 on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will trigger a global recession. The MSCI All-Country
World Index has lost 16 percent this quarter and trades at 11.9
times reported earnings, near the lowest level since March 2009.
The  S&P 500  has lost 12 percent since the end of June.  Extending Gains  Stock futures extended gains today as applications for
jobless benefits dropped by 37,000 in the week ended Sept. 24 to
391,000, the fewest since April, Labor Department figures
showed. Economists forecast 420,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. An agency official
said the data probably reflected a “slight mistiming” in the
seasonal factors used to modify the figures.  A separate report showed the U.S. economy grew at a 1.3
percent pace in the second quarter, faster than estimated last
month and helped by exports and spending on services.  “The U.S. economic data was better than expected,”
 Michael Gibbs , Memphis, Tennessee-based chief equity strategist
at Morgan Keegan Inc., said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees about $70 billion in client assets. “The market wants
Europe to show us, not tell us, what’s going to happen.”  German Vote  Global equities climbed earlier as  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament approved the expansion of the European bailout fund.
The bill’s passage by Europe’s biggest economy allows euro-area
officials to weigh further measures to bolster  Greece  and stem
investor concern that helped end the biggest three-day rally in
16 months for European stocks.  “Our markets have fairly well priced in all but the most
draconian of scenarios,”  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire chairman
of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.
“Unless something really calamitous happens” such as a default
of a larger European country like Spain or Italy, “short of
that, I think we’ve pretty well priced things in.”  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy climbed 1.5 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, also a proxy for the economy, added 2.1 percent.
General Electric gained 2.7 percent to $15.86, and Hewlett-
Packard advanced 2.5 percent to $23.78.  BofA, JPMorgan  Financial stocks in the S&P 500 rallied 2.8 percent, the
most among 10 industries. Bank of America climbed 3.1 percent to
$6.35, while JPMorgan added 3 percent to $31.39.  Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC)  surged 87 percent to $58.96. The
insurer agreed to be acquired by Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Co., the eighth-largest U.S. personal auto insurer, for $60 a
share in cash.  Advanced Micro Devices sank 14 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $5.31. The second-largest maker of processors for
personal computers reduced its forecasts for third-quarter sales
and profitability, citing manufacturing glitches.  Netflix dropped 11 percent to $113.19 for the second-
biggest loss in the S&P 500. The online and mail-order video
service fell on concern about competition with Amazon.com Inc.
and Microsoft Corp. The streaming business faces competition
from Amazon, which unveiled a tablet computer yesterday that’s
designed to work with its own video service. Microsoft plans to
offer online pay television service from Comcast Corp. and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  through its Xbox Live service,
people with knowledge of the situation said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  