-- 
U.S. Knew Solyndra Violating Loan Terms Before Guarantees, Official Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T16:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-knew-solyndra-violating-loan-terms-before-guarantees-official-says.html
The Energy Department knew Solyndra
LLC was violating terms of its U.S. loan by December and agreed
to keep providing taxpayer support for the solar-panel maker
that filed for court protection nine months later.  Damien LaVera, a spokesman for the  Department of Energy ,
said officials were aware that Solyndra had failed to set aside
$5 million, due in December, as the first of six payments under
the loan-guarantee agreement.  “In the fall of 2010, Solyndra informed DoE that it was
having major cash flow problems and would face bankruptcy in
early 2011 if new capital could not be raised,” LaVera said in
an e-mail today.  Solyndra executives and the Energy Department negotiated
new terms for the $535 million loan guarantee in January, more
than a year after the U.S awarded the company the first loan
package funded with economic stimulus money. The revised
agreement didn’t require the $5 million payments, LaVera said.  “Based on the information we had available to us at the
time, we concluded that this restructuring gave us the best
chance to protect the government’s investment by putting the
company in a better position to repay the loan,” LaVera said.  Documents released this month showed the company was a
month away from running out of cash in December 2010, before the
loan agreement was restructured.  The new terms placed government debt in a subordinate
position to $75 million from investors in the event of a
default. Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.
Two days later, its offices were raided by FBI agents.  A House subcommittee is investigating the restructuring as
part of a broader investigation into the guarantee. An official
at the White House Office of Management and Budget wrote in a
Jan. 31 e-mail that while the company “may avoid default with a
restructuring, there is also a good chance it will not.” The e-
mail was released by the subcommittee.  The restructuring gave the company a “fighting chance” to
survive, Jonathan Silver, executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan programs office, said at a House Energy and
Commerce Committee hearing this month.  Solyndra had received $460 million in government loans by
the time of the restructuring. It would get another $67 million
before closing on Aug. 31, according to the Energy Department.  The details were reported earlier today by the Washington
Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  