-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Benchmark Declines on Germany Vote

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-29T22:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-declines-on-germany-vote.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell for the third time in four days after lower-
than estimated claims for  unemployment benefits  added confidence
in the economic recovery and a vote by German lawmakers to
expand a European bailout fund eased concern that  Greece  will
default.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 138.8 basis points as of 5:43 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, declined as
 Europe ’s leaders take steps to prevent the region’s sovereign
debt crisis from intensifying. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
gained support from lawmakers to expand the European Financial
Stability Facility’s firepower, as the lower house of parliament
passed the measure with 523 votes in favor and 85 against.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, faster than previously estimated, and applications for
jobless benefits dropped by a more-than-forecast 37,000 to
391,000, the fewest since April, according to
government data.  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which climbs
as investor confidence improves, climbed 0.3 percentage points
to 91.5 percent of face value, Markit data show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  