-- 
U.S. Economy Grew at a Revised 1.3% Pace Last Quarter, More Than Estimated

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-29T12:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-economy-grew-at-a-revised-1-3-pace-in-second-quarter.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3
percent pace in the second quarter, faster than estimated last
month and helped by exports and spending on services.  The revised rise in gross domestic product compares with a 1
percent gain previously calculated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 1.2 percent, following a 0.4
percent increase in the first three months of the year.  Slower global markets may limit growth in exports and
business spending, which has bolstered U.S. manufacturing, a
pillar of the expansion. The lack of hiring and depressed
consumer confidence add to concerns the economy is facing
“significant” risks, helping explain why Federal Reserve policy
makers took another step this month to revive the recovery.  “The third quarter did get off to a better start but
there’s been a loss of momentum in the economy,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York , who
correctly forecast second-quarter GDP. “With  consumer confidence 
down and equity markets down, the best hope is sluggish growth
for the next few months.”  GDP projections of 80 economists in the survey ranged from 1
percent to 1.5 percent. The government’s GDP estimate is the
third and final one for the quarter.  Jobless claims fell more than forecast last week as an
atypical calendar alignment made it more difficult for the
government to adjust the data for seasonal variations, another
report showed. Applications for benefits dropped by 37,000 to
391,000, the fewest since April, the Labor Department said. An
agency official said the data probably reflected a “slight
mistiming” in the seasonal factors used to modify the figures.  Stock Futures   Stock-index futures maintained gains after the reports, with
the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
December climbing 1.4 percent to 1,164.6 at 8:57 a.m. in New
York.  The revision also reflected a faster pace of investment in
non-residential construction projects. State and local  government
spending  held back the advance in GDP.  Consumer spending rose at a 0.7 percent annual pace, up from
a previously reported 0.4 percent gain. Household purchases in
the first quarter climbed at a 2.1 percent annual pace.  The gap between exports and imports narrowed, helping to add
0.24 percentage point to growth last quarter, up from a previous
estimate of a 0.09-point contribution.  Business investment in equipment and software rose at a 6.2
percent annual rate compared with a previous estimate of 7.9
percent and following an 8.7 percent pace in the first three
months of the year.  Inventories Subtract  Inventories subtracted more from second-quarter growth than
reported last month -- 0.28 percentage point versus 0.23
percentage point.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to  consumer
spending  and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 2.3
percent annual pace, up from the prior estimate of 2.2 percent.  Fed officials last week announced a plan under which the
central bank will replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries maturing in six to 30
years, aiming to reduce borrowing costs and spur growth.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed’s policy-setting committee said in a statement on Sept. 21.
They also cited “weakness in overall labor market conditions,”
and said “household spending has been increasing at only a
modest pace.”  Second Half  The economy will expand 1.8 percent in the third quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists conducted Sept. 2
to Sept. 7. That’s down from a 2.1 percent estimate in the August
survey. Economists also cut growth projections to 2.2 percent for
the final three months of this year, from a previous estimate of
2.5 percent.  Concern about the recovery prompted President  Barack Obama 
to propose $447 billion in infrastructure spending, subsidies to
local governments to stem teacher layoffs and cutting in half the
payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business owners.  Americans are becoming more cautious as a lack of hiring and
limited income growth give them little reason to spend. Retail
sales unexpectedly stagnated in August following a 0.3 percent
gain in July, Commerce Department figures showed earlier this
month.  Wages, Salaries  Wages and salaries climbed by $78.7 billion from April
through June, compared with a previous estimate of $80.2 billion,
today’s report showed. Real disposable income, or after-tax
earnings adjusted for inflation, rose 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, half the 1.2 percent annual rate in the first three
months of the year.  Corporate earnings climbed 3.3 percent from the prior
quarter, after rising 1 percent in the prior period, today’s
report showed. They climbed 8.5 percent from the same time last
year.  With household purchases cooling and the housing market
still struggling, the economy may be counting more on exports and
capital investment to sustain growth. Orders for capital goods
like computers and communications gear, excluding military
hardware and aircraft, climbed 1.1 percent in August, the most
since May, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  “At a time of, I would say, global volatility, we still see
robust demand for our infrastructure products,”  Jeffrey Immelt ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
said Sept. 26 during a visit to  India . “We still feel quite good
about our prospects on a global basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  