-- 
U.S. Public Pension Assets Rise 17.6% to $2.77 Trillion, Most in 3 Years

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-29T15:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-public-pension-assets-rise-17-6-to-2-77-trillion-most-in-3-years.html
U.S. public pension-fund assets
grew 17.6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier as
state and city retirement systems continued to recoup losses
from the 2008 credit crisis.  Assets of the 100 largest public-worker pension plans rose
to $2.77 trillion by the end of June from $2.36 trillion a year
earlier, the U.S.  Census Bureau said  today. The gains were
driven by increases in U.S. stocks, corporate bonds and
international securities.  The advance pushed the assets to their highest in three
years, before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
accelerated the turmoil in financial markets in late 2008.
Investment losses suffered in the wake of that collapse left
plans with less than needed to pay benefits they have promised,
forcing cash-strapped governments to set more aside and fueling
drives to cut back on employee retirement costs.  The pension funds earned $51.4 billion on investments
during the second quarter, while employee and government
contributions also rose. Compared with the first quarter of this
year, the assets were up by 1.3 percent, the worst performance
since they slipped during the second quarter of 2010, according
to the Census Bureau.  Smoothing Method  The development may not provide much immediate relief for
state and local governments. Fund overseers use accounting
techniques to spread gains and losses over time, which prevents
their required contributions from swinging with changes in
financial markets. Pension funds also typically count on
earnings of about 8 percent a year, a benchmark they must exceed
to make up for years when money is lost.  Since the end of June, world stock markets have swooned
amid speculation that  Greece  will default and investor worries
that the economy could be headed toward a second recession.  Joseph Dear, chief investment officer of the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , said yesterday that the
fund may struggle in the next few years to make the 7.75 percent
returns it relies upon, given the pace of the U.S. recovery and
the concerns about European government debts.  The U.S. government pensions had $522.6 billion invested in
international securities at the end of the second quarter, the
most since the Census Bureau began tracking such holdings in
2002. Such securities comprised 18.9 percent of investments, up
from 18.7 percent at the end of the first quarter.  The plans also boosted their holdings of cash and short-
term securities to $117 billion in the second quarter from
$108.8 billion in the first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 