-- 
U.S. Invests $156 Million to Back ‘Transformative’ Clean Energy

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-29T18:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-invests-156-million-to-back-transformative-clean-energy.html
The Energy Department gave $156
million to 60 projects developing “transformative” clean-
energy technologies, as lawmakers fault its $535 million loan
guarantee to failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC.  The U.S. is in a “Sputnik-like moment in the race to
develop clean-energy technologies,” Arun Majumdar, the director
of the Energy program that made the grants, said today,
referring to the 1957 Soviet satellite that spurred the race won
by the U.S. 12 years later when men landed on the moon. “It’s
more important than ever to invest in game-changing ideas.”  The research projects are backed by the Advanced Research
Projects Agency - Energy, modeled after the Pentagon effort that
helped develop the Internet. Solyndra’s loan guarantee, awarded
two years before it filed for  bankruptcy protection , came from a
separate program run by the department to promote commercial
development of renewable energy.  The U.S. could invest in clean energies and create jobs or
“buy products from abroad,” Majumdar told reporters on a
conference call today.  Projects being funded include efforts to make
transportation fuel from tobacco plants and pine trees, improve
the electrical grid and make batteries to store thermal heat.  The Energy agency previously gave about $366 million in
grants to companies to develop clean-energy products, Majumdar
said. The program was financed by the 2009 economic stimulus.
Previous recipients have attracted about $200 million in private
investment, Majumdar said.  A Senate spending bill includes adding $250 million to the
program, about $300 million less than the department sought.
Legislation in the House included $180 million.  “We are in a tough budget climate and there is of course
some concern,” Majumdar said. He said he was confident Congress
would continue to support the initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  