-- 
U.S. Second Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-29T12:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/u-s-second-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the
 United States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.3
percent in the second quarter of 2011, (that is, from the
first quarter to the second quarter), according to the
"third" estimate released by the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis .  In the first quarter, real GDP increased 0.4
percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more
complete source data than were available for the "second"
estimate issued last month.  In the second estimate, the
increase in real GDP was 1.0 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the second quarter
primarily reflected positive contributions from
nonresidential fixed investment, personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), exports, and federal government
spending that were partly offset by negative contributions
from state and local  government spending  and private
inventory investment.  Imports, which are a subtraction in
the calculation of GDP, increased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the second quarter
primarily reflected a deceleration in imports, an upturn
in federal government spending, and an acceleration in
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by
a deceleration in PCE, a downturn in private inventory
investment, and a deceleration in exports.  Final sales of computers added 0.07 percentage point
to the second-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.08
percentage point to the first-quarter change.  Motor
vehicle output subtracted 0.10 percentage point from the
second-quarter change in real GDP after adding 1.08
percentage points to the first-quarter change.  FOOTNOTE.--Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.
Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences between
these published estimates. Percent changes are calculated
from unrounded data and are annualized.  Real estimates
are in chained (2005) dollars.  Price indexes are chain-
type measures.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 3.3
percent in the second quarter, the same increase as in the
second estimate; this index increased 4.0 percent in the
first quarter.  Excluding food and energy prices, the
price index for gross domestic purchases increased 2.7
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase
of 2.4 percent in the first.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 0.7
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase
of 2.1 percent in the first.  Durable goods decreased 5.3
percent, in contrast to an increase of 11.7 percent.
Nondurable goods increased 0.2 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.6 percent.  Services increased 1.9 percent,
compared with an increase of 0.8 in the first.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 10.3
percent, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent.
Nonresidential structures increased 22.6 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 14.3 percent. Equipment and
software increased 6.2 percent, compared with an increase
of 8.7 percent.  Real residential fixed investment
increased 4.2 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 2.4
percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 3.6
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase
of 7.9 percent in the first.  Real imports of goods and
services increased 1.4 percent, compared with an increase
of 8.3 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and
gross investment increased 1.9 percent in the second
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 9.4 percent in the
first.  National defense increased 7.0 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 12.6 percent.  Nondefense
decreased 7.6 percent, compared with a decrease of 2.7
percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.8 percent,
compared with a decrease of 3.4 percent.  The change in real private inventories subtracted
0.28 percentage point from the second-quarter change in
real GDP, after adding 0.32 percentage point to the first-
quarter change.  Private businesses increased inventories
$39.1 billion in the second quarter, following increases
of $49.1 billion in the first quarter and $38.3 billion in
the fourth.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less
change in private inventories -- increased 1.6 percent in
the second quarter, after increasing less than 0.1
percent.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced --
increased 1.0 percent in the second quarter, compared with
an increase of 0.7 percent in the first.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and
services produced by the labor and property supplied by
U.S. residents -- increased 2.2 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.5 percent in the
first.  GNP includes, and GDP excludes, net receipts of
income from the rest of the world, which increased $28.0
billion in the second quarter after increasing $36.6
billion in the first; in the second quarter, receipts
increased $39.4 billion, and payments increased $11.4
billion. Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the
nation's output of goods and services -- increased 4.0
percent, or $145.0 billion, in the second quarter to a
level of $15,012.8 billion.  In the first quarter, current-
dollar GDP increased 3.1 percent, or $112.8 billion.  Revisions  The third estimate of the second-quarter increase in
real GDP is 0.3 percentage point, or $11.3 billion, higher
than the second estimate issued last month, primarily
reflecting an upward revision to personal consumption
expenditures, a downward revision to imports, and an
upward revision to exports.  Advance Est.   Second Est.    Third Est.  (Percent change from preceding quarter)  Real GDP              1.3           1.0            1.3
Current-dollar GDP    3.7           3.5            4.0
Gross domestic purchases
  price index         3.2           3.3            3.3  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits
with inventory valuation and capital consumption
adjustments) increased $61.2 billion in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of $19.0 billion in the
first quarter.  Current-production  cash flow  (net cash
flow with inventory valuation adjustment) -- the internal
funds available to corporations for investment --
increased $86.2 billion in the second quarter, compared
with an increase of $21.1 billion in the first.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $1.8 billion in
the second quarter, in contrast to an increase of $17.6
billion in the first.  Profits after tax with inventory
valuation and capital consumption adjustments increased
$63.0 billion in the second quarter, compared with an
increase of $1.4 billion in the first.  Dividends
increased $13.6 billion, compared with an increase of
$19.0 billion; current-production undistributed profits
increased $49.3 billion, in contrast to a decrease of
$17.6 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased
$54.2 billion in the second quarter, compared with a
decrease of $38.7 billion in the first.  Domestic profits
of nonfinancial corporations increased $80.8 billion in
the second quarter, compared with an increase of $19.7
billion in the first.  In the second quarter, real gross
value added of nonfinancial corporations increased, and
profits per unit of real value added increased.  The
increase in unit profits reflected an increase in unit
prices and decreases in both the unit labor and nonlabor
costs that corporations incurred.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased
$34.6 billion in the second quarter, compared with an
increase of $37.9 billion in the first.  This measure is
calculated as (1) receipts by U.S. residents of earnings
from their foreign affiliates plus dividends received by
U.S. residents from unaffiliated foreign corporations
minus (2) payments by U.S. affiliates of earnings to their
foreign parents plus dividends paid by U.S. corporations
to unaffiliated foreign residents.  The second-quarter
increase was accounted for by a larger increase in
receipts than in payments.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation
adjustment is the best available measure of industry
profits because estimates of the capital consumption
adjustment by industry do not exist.  This measure
reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns.  According to this measure,
domestic profits of financial corporations decreased while
domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased.
The increase in profits of nonfinancial corporations
reflected increases in all the major subaggregates shown,
except for retail trade.  Within manufacturing, the
largest increase in profits was for petroleum and coal
products.  Profits before tax increased $13.5 billion in the
second quarter, compared with an increase of $134.6
billion in the first.  The before-tax measure of profits
does not reflect, as does profits from current production,
the capital consumption and inventory valuation
adjustments.  These adjustments convert depreciation of
fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported on a tax-
return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost measures
used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $8.1 billion in
the second quarter (from $115.4 billion to $107.3
billion), compared with a decrease of $89.8 billion in the
first.  The inventory valuation adjustment increased $55.6
billion (from -$116.0 billion to -$60.4 billion), in
contrast to a decrease of $25.7 billion.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story: Alex Tanzi in
Washington at   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Marco
Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  