-- 
Ultra Chief Working on U.S. Takeover in $170 Million Spree

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-29T09:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/ultra-chief-working-on-u-s-takeover-in-170-million-spree-1-.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE) , the
world’s biggest supplier of sonars used to detect submarines, is
poised to acquire a U.S. target to expand in cyber-security,
Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Sharma said.  Ultra, based in Greenford,  England , announced today that
it’s buying AEP Networks Ltd. for a maximum $75 million, and the
additional U.S. purchase planned would bring the combined
transaction value to about $170 million, Sharma said in an
interview today. He declined to name the target or give an
individual transaction value.  After entering the field of battlefield-code encryption 40
years ago, Ultra has its sights on protecting company computer
networks from hackers. Defense-related contracts in that area
currently account for 15 percent of Ultra’s annual turnover of
778.2 million pounds ($1.22 billion). Ultra is in the final
stages of due diligence with its current takeover target, Sharma
said.  “We look for growth areas and targets we can buy,” the
executive said. “A lot of people have jumped into the cyber
band wagon recently. For us it’s business as usual.”  The addition of AEP will help increase access to commercial
clients as well as in government fields such as communication
between embassies and state departments. AEP has more than 5,000
large companies and government departments on its books, giving
Ultra “a route to market” into the commercial space, Sharma
said.  U.S. and European defense cuts are triggering companies to
expand their operations in areas such as cyber security, energy
and commercial aerospace. Britain is slashing military budgets,
scrapping a contract for BAE Systems Plc’s reconnaissance
aircraft, cutting tank orders, delaying submarine replacement
and opting for fewer, cheaper planes for two aircraft carriers,
one of which may be sold.  Ultra Electronics shares were little changed at 1,548 pence
in  London  as of 9:38 a.m., giving the company a market value of
1.1 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  