-- 
Hungary Needs More Budget Steps, Patience on Rates, Simor Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-29T14:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/hungary-needs-more-budget-steps-patience-on-rates-simor-says.html
Hungary  needs to take additional
budget steps because economic growth next year is set to miss
the Cabinet’s forecast, central bank President Andras Simor
said.  The economic outlook may change “significantly” depending
on how many people take advantage of a government offer of early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at below market rates,
Simor told a conference in Pecs, southern Hungary, today.  Hungary -- which is rated the lowest investment grade at
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s
-- is struggling to trim its  budget deficit  to less than 3
percent of output next year as slower growth cuts tax revenue.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank expects 20 percent of Hungary’s 18
billion euros ($24.5 billion) in foreign-currency mortgages to
be repaid under the government’s home-loan plan, Simor said on
Sept 20. An offer to allow lenders to use the central bank’s
reserves as demand for foreign currencies rises should
“dampen” risks to financial stability, he said.  The outlook may change depending on how many people repay
their mortgages ahead of schedule, Simor said. The government is
offering borrowers to repay their mortgages at as much as 20
percent below market rates, with lenders swallowing losses.  The central bank, which held the benchmark rate unchanged
at 6 percent for an eighth month on Sept. 20, cut its 2012
economic-growth forecast last week in response to government
plans to raise taxes and said an interest-rate cut may come
“only in the mid-term” once the country’s risk premium
declines.  ‘Wait and See’  Simor reiterated that a “wait-and-see” monetary policy
stance is warranted in the current risk environment.  Global investors anticipate  Europe ’s debt crisis leading to
an economic slump, a financial meltdown and social unrest in the
next year with 72 percent predicting a country abandoning the
euro as a shared currency within five years, according to a
Sept. 26 poll of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. About three-quarters said the euro-area’s
economy will fall into recession during the next 12 months.  “The risk environment and the uncertainty in financial
markets warrant a wait-and-see monetary policy,” Simor said.  Hungary cut its offer of 12-month Treasury bills by 34
percent at an auction today after getting the lowest amount of
bids on that maturity in more than six years. The forint
depreciated 0.2 percent to 290.9 per euro as of 11:47 a.m. in
Budapest.  Slowing economic growth is reducing domestic inflation
pressures while imported inflation pressures are also easing,
Simor said today. Planned tax increases this year and next will
keep the inflation rate “high” before a forecast fall to the
bank’s 3 percent target in the first half of 2013, he said.  The economy may grow 1 percent next year, compared with an
earlier estimate of 1.5 percent, the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said in
a Sept. 22 report. The government is basing its 2012 budget on a
growth forecast of 1.5 percent, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  