-- 
United Pilots Lose Bid to Delay Operating Rules in 2010 Continental Merger

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-09-29T19:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/united-pilots-lose-bid-to-delay-operating-rules-in-2010-continental-merger.html
United Airlines’ pilots union lost
its bid to postpone the revised operating procedures being put
in place after the 2010 merger that created  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)   U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. in Brooklyn,  New
York , today denied the pilots’ request to halt the newest phase
of the procedures from going into effect tomorrow. Johnson said
the pilots didn’t show the training, approved by the  Federal
Aviation Administration , would put the public at risk,
warranting a temporary restraining order.  Current training levels and the timeline to implement new
steps for tasks such as taxiing and landing are “inadequate,”
leaders of the United’s Air Lines Pilots Association chapter
said in a Sept. 26 complaint, which came almost a year after
United and Continental Airlines combined. The airline has said
the pilots filed suit to gain leverage in contract talks.  “In light of the FAA’s regulatory authority and ongoing
oversight of all phases of the United and Continental merger,
the court has no choice but to deem the increased risk to safety
ALPA alleges as being too ‘remote and speculative’ to lift the
union’s TRO application off the ground,” the judge wrote.  Training Procedures  Captain Wendy Morse, chairman of the executive council of
the United pilots union, said today in an e-mailed statement
that the group is “disappointed” in the judge’s ruling and
still has concerns that the training schedule is “unrealistic”
and doesn’t meet its safety standards.  “We call on the company to once again delay the Sept. 30
deadline in good faith” and establish more robust training,
Morse said.  “As anticipated, the federal court determined ALPA’s
lawsuit and request for a temporary restraining order were
without merit,”  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman for United, said.
“We’ll continue to proceed with our training procedures, which
are widely used within the industry, were developed closely with
Boeing, and are reviewed and approved by the FAA.”  Pilots are scheduled to complete the latest phase of the
training program for the new procedures tomorrow, with full
implementation happening next year.  The complaint by the pilots union is one of the more
visible signs of friction between labor and management since
Chicago-based United and Continental Airlines merged last
October. The pilots said the company is implementing unrealistic
deadlines and only requiring computer training and no classroom
instruction or flight simulators.  In Talks  United said the suit is aimed at influencing negotiations
for a joint collective-bargaining agreement. The company’s
management has been in talks with the United and Continental
pilot union leaders since before the merger was completed.  Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek said in July that a new
joint contract with the pilots may not happen this year as he
originally hoped because the unions and management can’t agree
on terms.  “ALPA does not object to the new way of operating -- ALPA
objects to the lack of training,” Michael E. Abram, a lawyer
for the union, told Johnson at a hearing yesterday for its
request to halt implementation of the rules.  The risk to the public was too great to have the training
for the current phase be limited to 50 minutes on a computer,
said Abram, a partner at Cohen, Weiss & Simon LLP in  Manhattan .  Major Changes  Robert Siegel, a lawyer for United and a partner at
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP  in  Los Angeles , said the Continental
pilots haven’t objected to the training, which shows there isn’t
a safety issue.  Abram countered that United, not Continental, pilots are
undergoing the majority of the procedure changes and that the
safety issue is the reason for the suit.  “There is nothing in ALPA’s submissions to support a
finding that the FAA has somehow been negligent in carrying out
its regulatory mandate,” Johnson wrote today.  The case is Air Line Pilots Association v. United Air Lines
Inc., 11-cv-04661, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 