-- 
Lira Rebounds From Low as Basci Adds to $600 Million Dollar Sales in Week

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-29T14:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/turkish-lira-rebounds-from-record-low-as-basci-seen-extending-dollar-sales.html
Turkey ’s currency rose as the
central bank extended the biggest week for dollar sales since
Aug. 5 to shore up the lira after it fell to a record low.  The lira advanced 0.7 percent to 1.8488 per dollar at 5:06
p.m. in Istanbul, rebounding from an all-time low of 1.8610 at
yesterday’s close. The central bank sold $70 million in U.S.
currency today, bringing the total this week to $590 million at
daily auctions, the most for a week since the interventions
started in early August to bolster the lira.  Turkey’s currency is posting the biggest declines in
emerging markets this year, dropping 16.5 percent, and is down
12.2 percent this quarter as a widening current-account deficit
and worsening European debt crisis hurt investor confidence in
the nation’s financial stability. Policy makers cut borrowing
costs three times since December, by 1.25 percentage points, to
5.75 percent to help guard the economy from the global slowdown.
Central bank Governor Erdem Basci reiterated a commitment
yesterday to lower  interest rates  and  reserve requirements  to
boost the economy.  “Things for the lira look difficult in the coming days if
the central bank does not increase the foreign exchange sale
volumes significantly,” Emir Baruh, a currency trader at Akbank
TAS in Istanbul, said by telephone.  Foreign currency reserves excluding gold totaled $85.6
billion as of Sept. 23, down from a record $93.9 billion on July
8, the central bank  website  showed, dwarfed by  Russia ’s
international currency and gold reserves at $526 billion.  Limited Reserves  The central bank doesn’t see the need to intervene over a
longer period, said Daniel Lenz, chief emerging markets
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The bank is convinced
that it anticipates economic developments correctly and that the
market is too pessimistic and will return to the lira as soon as
the impact of its policy can be measured,’ Lenz said by e-mail.  The level of 1.90 per dollar “could be a technical turning
point when investors return in order to benefit from higher
rates and a recovery of the lira,” he said.  Turkey’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in the second quarter
as a boom in consumer borrowing forced the government to cap
loan growth at 25 percent. The country’s 12-month current-
account deficit widened to a record $74.6 billion in July, about
10 percent of gross domestic product.  Yields on the benchmark two-year lira-denominated bond fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.35 percent at
the 5.00 p.m. close in Istanbul, the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond
Index showed.  ‘More Attractive’  “The lira valuation has become much more attractive and
in a global downturn, Turkey still has a lot to offer in terms
of growth dynamics,” Claire Dissaux, the London-based managing
director of global economics and strategy at Millennium Global
Investments, which manages about $12 billion, said by e-mail.
“We are not yet there but definitely closer to stabilization as
the central bank no longer seems to wish to engineer  currency
depreciation  with cuts.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14 basis points to
353, compared with an eight basis point rise for emerging-market
debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. The spread on higher-
rated Russia shrank six basis points to 388.  Turkish Swaps  The cost of protecting Turkish debt against default with
five-year credit default swaps rose one basis point to 285,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Russian default swaps increased four basis
points to 299. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Nordea Bank AB changed its three-month forecast for the
lira today, saying it will depreciate to 1.92 per dollar, more
than its previous forecast of 1.79,  Elisabeth Andreew , chief
foreign exchange strategist at the Copenhagen-based bank, said
in e-mailed comments.  Andreew said investors are unwinding long positions in the
lira, and the nation’s current account deficit is “still high
and the tourist season is coming to an end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  