-- 
Uruguay Keeps 8% Rate as Inflation Outweighs Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-09-29T21:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/uruguay-keeps-8-rate-as-inflation-outweighs-slowdown-concerns.html
Uruguay’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as policy makers focus on
bringing inflation back to target over taking steps to cushion
the $44 billion economy from a global slowdown.  The five-member policy committee, led by central bank
Governor Mario Bergara, today kept the bank’s overnight rate at
a two-year high of 8 percent. Eight of 11 analysts surveyed by
El Pais newspaper expected a pause while three analysts forecast
a rate cut.  Policy makers’ two rate increases in 2011 have pushed
borrowing costs up 150 basis points, the second-biggest increase
among Latin American central bank’s this year after Banco
Central de Chile, and have helped to slow annual inflation from
8.61 percent in June to 7.57 percent last month. Even so, prices
are expected to rise 7 percent in 2011 and 2012, above the upper
limit of the bank’s target range of 4 percent to 6 percent.  The decision “gives a signal of caution in a context that
inflation is still high but they want to see whether or not the
turbulence in foreign markets will impact the economy or not,”
said Florencia Carriquiry, an economist at Deloitte Montevideo
Research, in a phone interview before the bank’s announcement.  After gross domestic product rose 6.6 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Uruguay’s economy cooled to post
4.8 percent year-on-year growth in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since the October-through-December period of 2009.
Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo repeated today the government
hopes the economy will expand 6 percent this year.  Among the vulnerabilities of Uruguay’s economy are its
small size, which magnifies the impact of any shock such as a
drought, and still high levels of dollarized debt.  “The crisis is a  stress test  for every country,´´ said
 Mauro Leos , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, in an
interview today in Montevideo. “It’s probably going to be ugly
and worse than we imagine now.´´  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  