-- 
Vale Holds Talks With Chinese Companies on Brazil Steel Plant

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-29T07:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/vale-holds-talks-with-chinese-companies-on-brazil-steel-plant.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron
ore producer, has held informal discussions with Chinese
companies to help develop a steel plant project in  Brazil ,
reflecting its optimistic outlook for global demand.  “We had several meetings here yesterday, but talks are
prospective,” Jose Carlos Martins, the Rio de Janeiro-based
company’s executive director for marketing, sales and strategy,
told reporters today in Qingdao. “We are open to talks.”  Baosteel Group Corp.,  China ’s second-biggest mill, scrapped
a plan in January 2009 to build a 10-million-metric ton slab
project in Espirito Santo state in Brazil. Vale informally
resumed talks with Baosteel on a possible partnership to develop
the $6 billion project, The Wall Street Journal reported in June,
citing unidentified officials from the mining company.  “We are always discussing possibilities” with customer
Baosteel, Martins said at a conference. “But since they left
the project, they didn’t come back. We’d like very much if they
decide to come back. But so far they don’t have any positions on
it.”  Global  iron ore  demand will remain strong as supply falls
short of forecasts and the sales outlook for steelmaking raw
material is “very good” because of infrastructure expansions
in China,  India  and other emerging countries, Martins said
yesterday at the conference.  The supply-demand will become more balanced during the
2015-2017 period when new iron ore capacity comes on stream and
prices may be “a bit down then stable,” he said today.  Goldman Forecast  Iron-ore prices may average $170 a ton next year, $160 a
ton in 2013 and $125 a ton in 2014, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
mining analyst Marcelo Aguiar said this week.  The price of iron ore with 62 percent iron content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin has fallen for three
straight weeks. It dropped 4.6 percent to $172.6 a ton yesterday
from a four-month high of $181 on Sept. 7, narrowing the gain in
the past year to 23 percent, according to the Steel Index.  “We had a lot of influences, psychological influence from
the situation in Europe and U.S.,” Martins said. “Short term
you will have some volatilities in market. But I believe
emerging markets will be even stronger than they emerged from
the last crisis.”  Fourth-quarter contract prices Vale charges its customers
will be stable from the prior three months, he said. The company
sells most of its ore on a quarterly basis.  Vale is “open to” talks to engage Chinese shipping
companies to operate its very large ore carriers under long-term
contracts, Martins said. Still, there aren’t any talks at the
moment for that, he said.  Vale hasn’t reached an agreement with its Chinese partners
on shipping and is exploring options on selling or leasing ships
to Chinese shippers, Teddy Tang, chief financial officer for
Vale’s Chinese operations, said Sept. 14.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  