-- 
Venezuelan Bonds Rally on Speculation Cancer to Prevent Chavez Re-Election

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-09-29T21:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/venezuela-bonds-rally-on-speculation-chavez-health-deteriorating.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied the most
in seven weeks on speculation President  Hugo Chavez ’s health is
deteriorating and will prevent him from running for re-election,
paving the way for a reversal of policies that have fueled the
fastest inflation in the Americas.  Yields on the benchmark 9.25 percent dollar bonds maturing
in 2027 fell 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 15.44
percent at 4:40 p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. El Nuevo Herald reported last night that Chavez
would undergo dialysis to treat possible  kidney failure . Chavez,
who revealed in June that he was battling cancer, appeared live
on state television today to dismiss the Herald report as
“rumors.”  Chavez has nationalized parts of the oil, metals, cement
and utilities industries since taking office in 1999 while
imposing currency and price controls in a bid to contain annual
inflation that has surged to 26.5 percent.  Venezuela  has the
second-highest overseas borrowing costs among emerging-market
countries after Belarus, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The market’s reacting to the news that this could be the
end of his regime,” said Kathryn Rooney Vera, an emerging
markets analyst at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami. “Anything
is better than Chavez, but the transition from the Chavista
regime to anything else will be tumultuous.”  Yields Tumble  After refuting the Herald report by phone on state
television earlier today, Chavez appeared live to say his
kidneys aren’t affected by the cancer.  “I am my own answer and the life I will live from now on
will be the response - the President Chavez who’s coming in
2012, 2013, 2019,” he said.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark bonds tumbled 117 basis
points in the month following the announcement that Chavez had
undergone surgery in Cuba. He reiterated today in the phone
interview on state TV his plans to run for a new six-year term
in next year’s elections, saying he’s “itching” to start
campaigning.  “I’m asking the Venezuelan people not to pay attention to
rumors,” Chavez said in the interview. “I would be the first
of all Venezuelans to come out and communicate any difficulty.”  The 57-year-old former paratrooper had a baseball-sized
tumor removed in June. Since then, he has provided few details
about the state of his health, including the form of cancer he’s
fighting.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
government debt instead of U.S. Treasuries plunged 58 basis
points to 1,425 today.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan bonds against default for
five years fell 35 basis points to 1,219, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “There’s a lot of distrust surrounding his comments about
his health,” said Aryam Vazquez, an emerging-markets economist
at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “His situation does not look
good and bonds will rally on the fact he may be eliminated from
the picture and not be there for elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  