-- 
Vietnam Central Bank Caps Some Dong Deposit Rates at 6%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-29T06:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/vietnam-central-bank-caps-some-dong-deposit-rates-at-6-1-.html
Vietnam ’s central bank said it will
cap interest rates on dong deposits that are non-term and those
less than a month at 6 percent to address “liquidity risks,”
amid concerns about the health of the nation’s banking system.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will maintain the existing 14
percent rate cap on deposits of one month or longer, according
to  a statement  on its website. The regulations will take effect
from Oct. 1, it said.  Some banks have been offering interest rates as high as 14
percent for deposits as short as 24 hours, which creates
“liquidity risks,” the central bank said in the statement. The
central bank this month ordered lenders to comply with the 14
percent cap for deposits of one month or more.  “They’re closing a loophole that small banks were using to
try to get around the cap on term deposits,” said Fiachra
MacCana, managing director of Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp.
“The practical impact of this may be that more money will go
out of the banking system into assets like gold, which could put
a bit more pressure on the currency.”  Some banks previously offered clients incentives to entice
deposit growth, taking the effective rate higher than 14 percent,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said last month. Vietnamese banks’
ability to mobilize deposits has been “disappointing” this
year, limiting the lending capacity of the banking system, it
said in a report.  Bank Quality  “Depositors today don’t care about the quality of the bank,
they just care about the  interest rate ,” Ly Xuan Hai, chief
executive of Asia Commercial Bank, Vietnam’s biggest non-state-
owned bank, said in an interview this month. “Because of that,
very small, very badly managed banks, when they increase the
interest rate for depositors, depositors will come to them.”  Vietnam’s banking system is facing a slowdown in credit
growth, a deterioration in asset quality, and funding pressures
after some companies reduced deposits as earnings weakened,
Moody’s Investors Service said this month.  The deposit cap of 14 percent creates negative real
interest rates, Moody’s said, making it harder for banks to
attract funds to support its lending growth. Vietnam’s inflation
rate in September was 22.42 percent.  Some of Vietnam’s small banks are under-capitalized and
undisciplined, and the central bank should let “attrition or
consolidation take its course” with these lenders, Credit
Suisse said last month.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  and Nguyen Kieu Giang and
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Russell Ward, Linus Chua  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  