-- 
Wallabies Pick Forward on Wing; England Recalls Lawes: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-29T04:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/wallabies-pick-forward-on-wing-england-recalls-lawes-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand .  Forward-to-Back  Australia picked back-rower Radike Samo at right wing for
its final pool match against Russia on Oct. 1, making him the
first player to start as a forward and a back at the same Rugby
World Cup, tournament organizers said.  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  retained six players from last
week’s win over the U.S. Samo finished that game on the wing
because of injuries to back-line players. All three hookers and
scrum-halves in the 30-man roster were included in the match-day
squad of 22 to face the Russians.  “We’ve had to be a bit creative but it’s never been about
the number on their back,” Deans said in a team statement.
“While some of them might be out of their normal positions,
they won’t let us down and will enjoy the opportunity.”  Australia  can move to 15 points atop Pool C by beating the
Bears and scoring at least four tries. Group leader Ireland and
Italy meet in the final game on Oct. 2.  AUSTRALIA: James O’Connor, Radike Samo, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Berrick Barnes,  Drew Mitchell , Quade Cooper, Luke Burgess, Ben
McCalman, David Pocock,  Scott Higginbotham , Nathan Sharpe, James
Horwill (captain), Sekope Kepu, Stephen Moore, James Slipper.  Replacements: Tatafu Polota Nau, Saia Fainga’a, Salesi
Ma’afu, Rob Simmons,  Rocky Elsom , Will Genia, Nick Phipps.  England, Scotland  England made three changes and Scotland six for their
pivotal Pool B match in Auckland on Oct. 1  Delon Armitage replaces Mark Cueto on England’s left wing
with prop Matt Stevens and lock Courtney Lawes returning in
place of Alex Corbisiero and Tom Palmer, respectively.  Scotland, which needs to take the maximum five competition
points and deny  England  a bonus point to guarantee a
quarterfinal place, recalled captain Alastair Kellock in the
second row and Euan Murray at prop. Richie Vernon comes in for
Kelly Brown at No. 8.  In the backs, Joe Ansbro replaces Nick de Luca at outside
center, Sean Lamont moves from the wing to inside center instead
of Graeme Morrison with Simon Danielli recalled on the wing.
Mike Blair takes over at scrum-half from Rory Lawson.  ENGLAND: Ben Foden, Chris Ashton, Manu Tuilagi, Mike
Tindall, Delon Armitage, Jonny Wilkinson, Ben Youngs, James
Haskell, Lewis Moody (captain), Tom Croft, Courtney Lawes, Louis
Deacon, Dan Cole, Steve Thompson, Matt Stevens  Replacements: Dylan Hartley, Alex Corbisiero, Tom Palmer,
Nick Easter, Richard Wigglesworth,  Toby Flood ,  Matt Banahan .  SCOTLAND: Chris Paterson, Max Evans, Joe Ansbro, Sean
Lamont, Simon Danielli, Ruaridh Jackson, Mike Blair, Richie
Vernon, John Barclay, Alasdair Strokosch, Alastair Kellock
(captain), Richie Gray, Euan Murray, Ross Ford, Allan Jacobsen.  Replacements: Scott Lawson, Alasdair Dickinson, Nathan
Hines, Ross Rennie, Chris Cusiter, Dan Parks, Nick de Luca.  Habana Warning  South Africa  winger  Bryan Habana , who scored four tries in
his previous Test appearance against Samoa at the 2007  World
Cup ,said he’s braced for a physical challenge from the Pacific
island team in tomorrow’s Pool D match in Auckland.  “That first 20 minutes against Samoa in 2007 was some of
the toughest Test match rugby I’ve ever played,” Habana said
today at a news conference. “I reckon tomorrow it will be no
different. We have to make sure we are playing our best rugby if
we’re going to have any chance of success.”  Defending champion South Africa will guarantee first place
in the five-team group by avoiding defeat against Samoa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  