-- 
Washington Post Costs Shareholders 71% Gain by Forgoing Breakup: Real M&A

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-09-29T20:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/washington-post-costs-shareholders-71-gain-by-forgoing-breakup-real-m-a.html
Washington Post Co. (WPO)  risks costing
shareholders a 71 percent gain by keeping together its 134-year-
old newspaper, Kaplan education business and broadcast and cable
operations.  The company’s market capitalization slid to $2.5 billion
from a record $9.5 billion in 2004 as newspaper advertising
dwindled and Kaplan was ensnared in government investigations
into student loan defaults at for-profit universities. Breaking
Washington Post Co. into four companies may generate a combined
value of $564 a share, a 71 percent increase to the stock’s
average price in the last 20 days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The broadcasting and cable units alone would exceed
the Washington-based company’s current value.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Donald Graham , whose
grandfather purchased the Washington Post newspaper in  1933 , the
Kaplan business became the biggest profit contributor as
newspaper publishing started losing money. While Graham said
he’s reluctant to sell any piece of the family-controlled
company that counts  Warren Buffett  as its biggest outside
investor, family-run McGraw-Hill Cos. said this month it will
split its textbook publishing and financial ratings businesses.  “It’s clear that investors want management to explore
options to unlock value,” Bradley Safalow, founder and CEO of
independent research firm PAA Research in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “But Don Graham has been making it clear
that he will not break up his company or spin off a division.”  ‘Exceptionally Reluctant’  Buffett, the chairman and CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “If the company were broken up, the same shareholders
would own the same businesses but with the additional expense of
another board and another corporate management,” Graham, who’s
also chairman, said in a phone interview. “I’m not commenting
on whether your analysis is right or wrong, but the market tends
to ultimately price companies at their real value.”  At Washington Post Co.’s meeting with shareholders Sept. 9,
Graham, 66, referred to advice from Buffett and his late mother
Katharine Graham, the former chairman and CEO, that the market
will recognize value over time.  “We are exceptionally reluctant to sell any business,”
Graham said at the meeting. “We would only contemplate it if a
business is losing money and you can’t see a way out or if labor
relations are terrible. That is quoting Warren, not quoting me.
Warren also says Berkshire -- and I would have to adopt this for
the Post Co. -- does not play what he calls gin rummy management
in which you discard a business at every turn to try to do
something with the stock price.”  Uncovering Watergate  Buffett, 81, has been a shareholder in Washington Post Co.
since 1973 and stepped down from the board in May. While
Berkshire is the company’s largest outside investor, Buffett
signed the voting power of his Class B shares over to Graham to
vote as he chooses. Graham controls the vote for 85 percent of
the Class A shares, which elect 70 percent of the board.  Once worth $9.5 billion, Washington Post Co. had bolstered
profit with cash from the flagship newspaper, which uncovered
the  Watergate  scandal in the 1970s, and with the purchase of
Kaplan centers that provide test preparation and higher
education. Since the market value peaked in 2004, the government
has sought increasing regulations aimed at for-profit education
companies, and advertising and circulation revenue across the
newspaper industry has dwindled as readers moved online. Its
market capitalization has since plunged 74 percent.  Discount to Sales  While revenue rose in eight of the past nine years, net
income in the same period peaked in 2004 at $333 million. The
company is now trading at a 42 percent discount to its revenue,
a cheaper price-to-sales ratio than 89 percent of U.S. cable,
newspaper, television and education companies with market values
greater than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Washington Post Co.’s four units would have a combined
equity value of almost $4.5 billion if broken apart, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg that applies rivals’ operating
cash flow multiples to the respective businesses. That would
equate to a combined $564 a share, 71 percent higher than the
stock’s 20-day trading average prior to today of $330.04.  Washington Post Co. shares rose $8.70, or 2.8 percent, to
$323.84 today.  Cable One, which delivers digital cable-TV, Internet and
phone services, would be Washington Post Co.’s most valuable
unit on a standalone basis at about $2 billion, including net
cash. With the company’s six local TV stations worth an
estimated $950 million, the two operations’ combined enterprise
value would be higher than Washington Post Co.’s $2.3 billion in
equity and net cash, the data show.  Unlocking Value  “We believe that certain corporate actions, such as
spinoffs, could unlock the underlying asset value of the
company,” Heather King McPherson, an associate portfolio
manager at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc., said in an
e-mail. T. Rowe oversaw about $520 billion and owned 1.25
percent of Washington Post Co.’s Class B shares as of June.  Cable One, which serves about  720,000  customers, could
attract takeover interest from  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  or Charter
Communications Inc., Christopher Marangi, a  fund manager  at Rye,
New York-based Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees $36 billion,
said in a phone interview.  “Cable assets of meaningful size are valuable,” Marangi
said. “It could be an opportunity for existing players to add
scale or for the private equity community to invest.”  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, and Anita Lamont, a spokeswoman for Charter, declined to comment on rumors
or speculation.  TV Station Buyers  The  broadcast TV business , which owns network affiliates in
major markets such as Miami and Houston, could lure potential
buyers including private equity firms, network owners such as
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and
local-station owners like Gannett Co. or Belo Corp.,  Edward Atorino , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in New York, said in a
phone interview.  “Buyers would be lined up around the block,” Atorino
said. “These are big stations in top 30 markets, and people
with big money want them.”  D’Arcy Rudnay, a spokeswoman for Comcast, Gannett’s Robin Pence and Jill Matthews of Belo declined to comment on potential
mergers and acquisitions.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Disney,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Graham would have the most difficulty parting with the
Washington Post newspaper, Atorino said.  He won’t sell the publication “under any circumstances
that we can conceive of today,”  Ken Doctor , a media analyst at
Outsell Inc. in  Santa Cruz ,  California , said in a phone
interview. “The family legacy, the Watergate legacy, it’s all
still strong in that newspaper.”  For-Profit Investigations  The  publishing operations , also including the Slate Group
and community newspapers, posted an operating loss of $9.8
million last year. The unit may only have an enterprise value of
about $150 million, based on multiples for competitors Gannett
and  New York Times Co. (NYT) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The education division, which brought in $2.9 billion or 62
percent of revenue last year, may be valued at more than $1.1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s Investors
Service this week put Washington Post Co.’s A2 credit rating,
the sixth-highest level of investment grade, on review for a
possible cut, citing enrollment and earnings pressure at Kaplan
and an updated assessment of the company’s business diversity.  Congress and state attorneys general are investigating
education companies’ recruitment practices and use of government
aid. The Education Department developed rules to try to curb
loan default rates at for-profit colleges that will cut off
federal funding starting in 2015 to schools where students
struggle the most to repay loans.  ‘Very Mispriced Stock’  While shareholder  Thomas Russo  estimates Washington Post
Co. may be valued at more than $700 a share in a breakup, he
said the company would miss the opportunity to reinvest across
its businesses, expand globally and buy back shares to boost the
stock price even higher. Russo manages about $4 billion in
Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , as a partner at Gardner Russo &
Gardner, which has been a Washington Post Co. investor since the
late 1980s.  “A very mispriced stock is a great asset to a company that
has the right mindset, like Berkshire and Washington Post,”
Russo said. “They know how to add value to the remaining shares
by acquiring back shares at a steep discount to value.”  This month the company approved the repurchase of as many
as 750,000 Class B shares, or about 11 percent of the Class B
outstanding.  McGraw-Hill Split  McGraw-Hill CEO Harold “Terry” McGraw III faced a
challenge similar to Graham, overseeing a family-run company
with units that would be more valuable apart, said PAA
Research’s Safalow.  New York-based McGraw-Hill said Sept. 12 that it will
separate its global markets, including  Standard & Poor’s , from
education publishing after pressure mounted from investors such
as Jana Partners LLC. The shares have since climbed 11 percent,
compared with a 0.3 drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Old media companies like McGraw-Hill and Washington Post
often are valued more highly in the private market than in the
public market,”  Paul Sweeney , senior media and Internet analyst
at Bloomberg Industries in  New York , said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 