-- 
What Europe’s Leaders Mean When Their Mouths Move: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-09-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/what-europe-leaders-mean-when-their-lips-move-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The error most Americans make when
trying to understand the European debt crisis is this: They fail
to realize that the euro isn’t just a doomed currency, but a
language unto itself.  Too often the great mishaps of our era can be ascribed to a
 failure to communicate  -- from the lip-synching scandal that
engulfed the German pop/dance act  Milli Vanilli , to the time
when  Greece ’s government started leaving all those extra zeros
off the liabilities side of its balance sheet a decade ago. If
only these deceptions had drawn proper scrutiny at the outset,
much needless pain and suffering could have been avoided.  And yet, the more things change, as they say. It’s bad
enough for average Americans that most European leaders speak
English with heavy accents. What’s worse, even when we can make
out the words they utter, it’s almost always impossible to
figure out what these officials are really saying. That’s
because they’re speaking in Euro-ese.  Fortunately, there is an answer to their endless riddles: a
Euro-to-English dictionary, excerpts of which I have included
below. (Click  here  to read about its close linguistic cousin:
the Goldman Sachs dictionary.) To truly see the meaning of the
seismic events rapidly reshaping  Europe , you must know what the
following 10 Euro terms of art mean in plain American English:  1.  Finance ministry : A house of worship where government
leaders go to pray for bailouts, economic miracles, panaceas and
other forms of divine intervention.  How to use in a sentence: Officials at the Greek Finance
Ministry said they remain hopeful the country will receive its
next batch of rescue loans in time to avoid a cataclysmic
default.  2. Coordinated: Chaotic, unfocused, brain-dead, paralyzed
to the point of nonexistence; even in its best moments
resembling a hopeless klutz.  Example: Finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations
last week said they were “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy.”  3. Firewall: A partition made of fireproof material to
prevent the spread of flames from one place to another. Of no
use in containing a financial crisis, except as vague public-
relations catnip for readers of news articles who can’t tell the
difference between napalm and a 10-year bond.  Usage: U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who is
fluent in both Euro and Mandarin, last weekend urged euro-area
nations “to create a firewall against further contagion.”  4. Contagion: A financially transmitted psychiatric
condition, marked by intense fear of losing everything. Only
known treatments in use at the moment are firewalls, rather than
anything that actually works.  5. Peripheral country: A core, indispensable member of the
European Union. Related word: Sovereign, meaning German or
subservient to  Germany .  Example: “Although some peripheral countries in Europe
continue to experience acute pressure on their sovereign debts,
the risk of a broader contagion throughout the area did not
materialize,” Italy’s finance minister,  Giulio Tremonti ,  said 
April 16, four months before Europe’s central bank rescued  Italy 
via large, open-market purchases of Italian  government bonds .  6. Stability mechanism: A wooden  paddle ball , mainly used
for contests between office workers to see how many times they
can bounce the little rubber ball off the paddle without
missing; also advertised as a cure-all device for comatose
economies.  Usage: The European Stability Mechanism, due to take effect
in 2013 as a permanent successor to the region’s current bailout
fund, will have a “lasting, stabilizing, confidence-creating
function,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters on Sept. 24.  7. TORRP: The much-awaited European version of TARP.
Abbreviation derived from the second letter of each of the
following countries’ names: Italy,  Portugal , Ireland, Greece and
 Spain .  Rumored to stand for Troubled Obligation Relief Relief
Program, providing relief from the relief. In fact, it stands
for nothing in particular, like other government institutions.
Unlike the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, any TORRP money
distributed to European banks is guaranteed never to be repaid.  8. Controlled default: The act of telling another country’s
government that it’s OK to stiff most creditors, and then
watching with morbid fascination to see if the global banking
system falls apart. Originally an aviation term used to describe
the final landing of the  Hindenburg , which crashed all by itself
without taking any other zeppelins with it.  9. Recapitalize: To transfer money from a country’s middle-
class taxpayers to an insolvent bank -- in essence, a bribe to
bondholders and senior management -- as a way of ensuring that
the wealthy don’t rise up and oust the government.  Related term: Austerity. As in, an economic-stimulus
program that involves doing exactly the same thing, except the
money comes from the citizens of a different country, such as
Greece, who are left to subsist on a diet of untreated water and
surplus rice.  Usage: “More banks may need to be recapitalized,”
European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
Sept. 20 at a press conference in Brussels. “That’s why it’s so
important to solve the sovereign-debt crisis without a delay.”  10. Covered-bond purchase program: Forget it, way too
complicated to explain here.  Just remember this. The EU and its member nations’ finance
ministries are proceeding with their coordinated efforts to
erect firewalls, and will never permit contagion to spread
beyond the euro area’s peripheral countries.  Remain calm. All is
well.  Everything is under control.  In addition to their plans to recapitalize Europe’s banks
and revitalize the region’s economies, through TORRP and the
European Stability Mechanism, there’s always the fallback option
of a prepackaged, orderly, controlled default by Greece, even if
Europe’s leaders aren’t ready to say so publicly yet. What’s
important to keep in mind is that we’re all in this together,
regardless of whether you can understand a word any of these
people are saying.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  