-- 
Whitney Gets One Out of Billions Right With Wrong Market Call: Muni Credit

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/whitney-gets-one-out-of-billions-right-with-wrong-market-call-muni-credit.html
Brighton,  Alabama , a city of 2,945
near Birmingham, stands out as the only U.S. municipality to
miss a general-obligation debt payment in 2011, less than a year
after  Meredith Whitney  predicted “hundreds of billions of
dollars” of defaults.  Instead, defaults this year are about a quarter of the $4.3
billion tally in 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch research. Municipal debt has returned 9.1 percent in 2011,
beating Treasuries’ 8.2 percent, with tax-exempt yields close to 
the lowest in more than two years, the bank’s index data show.  To make sure they have money to pay their debts,
municipalities nationwide are selling assets, cutting employees
and slashing  capital spending . Seven straight quarters of
growing state and local-government tax revenue are also easing
fiscal strain in the $2.9 trillion municipal-debt market.  “We just haven’t seen the uptick” in defaults, said John Hallacy, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s head of municipal
research in  New York . “Municipalities have to balance their
budgets and make hard decisions. A lot of them care about their
ratings because they want  market access .”  From  California  to Massachusetts, states, cities and other
local borrowers are set to sell about $67 billion of long-term
debt this quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s
the first time since at least 2003 that third-quarter offerings
will rise from the prior three months.  December Prediction  Whitney, the banking analyst who predicted Citigroup Inc.’s
2008 dividend cut, said on “60 Minutes” on Dec. 19 that there
would be “hundreds of billions of dollars” of municipal defaults
within 12 months.  Data from Hallacy, Standard & Poor’s and Municipal Market
Advisors show the opposite.  Debt-service payment defaults this year are the equivalent
of 0.64 percent of municipal-bond sales, compared with 0.99
percent for 2010, Hallacy wrote in a report last week. About 99
percent of the defaults have been revenue bonds. Health-care
accounted for the biggest chunk, at 39 percent. Hallacy included
monetary defaults or missed payments to investors in his tally.  The largest default for 2011 is the Clare at Water Tower,
a 53-story apartment building for retirees in  Chicago  with about
$229 million of long-term debt, according to  Richard Lehmann ,
publisher of the Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter in  Miami
Lakes ,  Florida .  Jefferson County  Brighton is in Jefferson County, which avoided becoming
the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on Sept. 16 when it
provisionally agreed to a restructuring of $3.14 billion of
sewer debt. The city, about 12 miles (19 kilometers) from
Birmingham, lost 19 percent of its residents from 2000 to 2010,
and had an estimated household median income of $26,458 in 2009,
according to U.S. Census data. That compares with about $41,000
for the rest of the state.  The city is the only general-obligation issuer to default
this year, according to Matt Fabian at MMA, a financial-research
company based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Brighton told investors in the $1.12 million of general-
obligation warrants it sold in 2003 that it missed a $22,783
interest payment and $35,000 principal repayment Aug. 1 “due to
lack of funds,” according to an Aug. 3 notice by Hazel
Williams, the acting clerk.  Williams referred questions to Mayor Angelo Hinkle. Hinkle
didn’t immediately respond to telephone messages left at  City
Hall  and with Williams.  ‘Nothing Different’  Whitney, speaking Sept. 27 at the Council of Institutional
Investors conference in  Boston , stood her ground.  “I would say nothing different from what I said” in
December, she said in response to a question from the audience.
“You have evidential examples to point to across the board,
from those states that cut programs, from those states that cut
jobs.”  Whitney also said she never specified a “definitive
timeline” for the amount of defaults.  To reduce deficits, local governments have cut 550,000 jobs
in the past three years. Half of cities cut or froze employee
pay in 2011, 31 percent fired workers and 30 percent cut health-
care benefits, the  National League of Cities  said this week,
citing a survey of municipal officials. Three out of five
municipalities delayed or canceled “capital infrastructure
projects,” the survey said.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  OKLAHOMA TURNPIKE AUTHORITY, which oversees 605 miles of
roadway in the state, is set to borrow $522 million as soon as
next week to refinance debt. The sale is rated AA- by S&P, its
fourth-highest grade.  RBC Capital Markets  will lead a syndicate
of banks on the deal. (Added Sept. 29)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  