-- 
Twitter Posts Show Workers Worldwide are Stressed out on the Job

-- B y   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-29T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/twitter-posts-show-workers-worldwide-are-stressed-out-on-the-job.html
Need proof that your job stresses
you out? It’s in your  Twitter  feed.  Workers worldwide wake up happy, then lose that good mood
once their jobs begin, according to a two-year review of Twitter
posts by 2.4 million people in 84 countries released today in
the journal  Science .  While scientists have long known that work, sleep and
sunshine can affect emotions, the study is among the first to
mine social-media for real-time evidence of the connections,
said researchers at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York. The
universe of people using social-networking sites such as those
run by Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. will almost double to 1.85
billion by 2015, according to research firm IDC, ushering in a
new era of Internet-based study of human behavior.  “Twitter almost records everything that happens in life,”
said  Scott Golder , the lead study author and a graduate student
in sociology at Cornell, in an interview. “Mundane,
inconsequential, and conversational tweets are a massive archive
of digital traces.”  San Francisco-based Twitter, with more than 100 million
users worldwide, is a micro-blogging service that lets people
post 140-character messages online. The updates are time-
stamped, offering a rich trove of data, Golder said.  Today’s study used text-analysis software to track mood
fluctuations in the Twitter posts. Messages in the early morning
and late evenings were most likely to contain happier words such
as “awesome,” “super” and “fantastic,” Golder said. During
the workday, missives tended to be peppered with negative
language including “panic” and “fear.”  U.S. workers spend an average of 62 minutes each day using
social media for personal reasons, compared with 37 minutes for
business purposes, according to a survey conducted in July by
the Ponemon Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xu Wang in  New York  at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at  