-- 
Europe Financial Meltdown Converging With Slump Seen by Investors in Poll

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-29T11:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/world-recession-seen-triggered-by-europe-breakdown-in-global-investor-poll.html
Global investors anticipate
Europe’s debt crisis leading to an economic slump, a financial
meltdown and social unrest in the next year with 72 percent
predicting a country abandoning the euro as a shared currency
within five years, a Bloomberg survey found.  About three-quarters of those questioned this week said the
euro-area economy will fall into recession during the next 12
months and 53 percent said turmoil will worsen in a banking
sector laden with  government bonds , according to the quarterly
Global Poll of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. Forty percent see the 17-nation currency
bloc losing at least one member in the next year.  More than a third of participants say deteriorating
European debt will derail the world economy over the next year,
with the pessimism highlighting the pressure European policy
makers face as they try again to fix their 18-month sovereign
crisis. Stocks last week tumbled into their first  bear market  in
two years and foreign leaders, including President  Barack Obama ,
are urging European leaders to intensify their rescue efforts.  “It’s a bad crisis,” said Jean-Yves Chereau, a poll
respondent and chief investment officer at Halkin Investments
LLP in  London . “Since the resurgence of troubles in Greece, you
suddenly have a crisis of confidence and trust and that’s
impacting markets and could hurt economies. Politicians need to
move ahead pretty quickly.”  Cut Investment  Europe’s woes have reignited as Greece attempts to stave
off default and spars with its European Union partners over
whether it deserves the next tranche of aid next month. Euro-
area lawmakers are also taking their time implementing a July
overhaul of their rescue fund to give it more crisis-fighting
tools, while investors question the ability of banks to
withstand further market unrest as signs also mount that the
economy is losing momentum.  Investors signaled the stresses are prompting them to shift
money out of the euro area. Fewer than one-fifth of those polled
said the EU’s market offers the best investment opportunity over
the next year, about half the number that cited the U.S. Fifty-
three percent identified the EU as offering investors the worst
opportunities during the next year.  Fifty-six percent said they will reduce their exposure to
the euro in the next six months and even one in three inside the
region plan to. Half of all investors said they expect the Euro
Stoxx 50 index to fall.  Economy Deteriorating  Economists at Pacific Investment Management Co., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc all said in the
past week that the euro-area is entering recession. The European
Commission reported today that confidence in the economic
outlook this month dropped more than economists forecast to its
lowest level since December 2009.  Eighty-eight percent of those surveyed by Bloomberg said
the region’s economy is deteriorating. Almost half of Asian
respondents said they expected  Europe ’s pain to spark a
worldwide economic meltdown within the next year, compared with
34 percent in the U.S. and Europe.  “If the euro crisis continues to fester or become more
dangerous, the cumulative effect of declining economic
confidence and harsh austerity measures will tip the peripherals
into certain recession,” said Akber Naqvi, a poll respondent
and executive director at Al Masah Capital Ltd. in Dubai. “The
ensuing chaos and banking crisis will almost certainly tip the
whole region into a recession.”  German Vote  German lawmakers today approved an expansion of the euro-
area rescue fund’s firepower, freeing the way for European
officials to focus on what next steps may be needed to stem the
debt crisis. Policy makers are studying how and whether to boost
the fund through leverage.  “Some of the challenges that we’ve had over the last
several months actually have to do with the fact that, in
Europe, we haven’t seen them deal with their banking system and
their financial system as effectively as they needed to,” Obama
said yesterday.  As  Greece  struggles to impose the austerity needed to tap
more international aid next month, 93 percent said the country
will eventually default, up 8 percentage points from May. Fifty-
six percent said Portugal faces the same fate, down 3 points.
Sentiment toward Ireland also improved as 58 percent said
bankruptcy would be avoided, four months after the majority bet
otherwise.  Spain ,  Italy   Sixty-four percent said Spain will keep paying its bills
and a similar number of respondents said the same of Italy. More
than 90 percent said the U.K. and France won’t go insolvent.  Almost every respondent described Greece’s creditworthiness
as poor, with more than half saying the same of Italy and Spain.
By contrast, 38 percent said Germany’s was excellent and 45
percent said it was good. Fifty-three percent described their
faith in Japan as “just fair” or “poor” and 59 percent gave
the same rating to France.  Banks have also been hit. Eighty percent said the
reputation of Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA worsened over the
last six months and 71 percent said the same of compatriot  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA. Both vowed this month to trim their balance sheets
after concerns about their sovereign-debt holdings made U.S.
money-market funds reluctant to lend to them, crimping liquidity
options.  UBS Reputation  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Sept. 15 announcement that unauthorized trading
had cost it $2.3 billion left Switzerland’s biggest bank with a
poorer reputation than six months ago, according to 90 percent
of those surveyed. A majority said the incident was probably a
single event rather than proof of a dangerous lack of
regulation.  Seventy-four percent of poll participants said  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s credibility has diminished after it posted a
record $8.8 billion quarterly loss and shook up management.
About half said the standing of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had
lessened.  There was little change in the reputations of Barclays Plc,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Wells Fargo & Co ., JPMorgan Chase, Morgan
Stanley, Royal Bank of Scotland, Citigroup Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc, the poll found.  The debt crisis is raising questions about whether the 12-
year old currency bloc can maintain its current form. While 4 in
10 respondents said they expected a nation to leave within a
year, a further 32 percent said a member would leave in two to
five years. Fifty-one percent said the euro zone would collapse
at some point although only 8 percent expected that to occur in
the next year.  Fiscal Union  Still, 51 percent of investors said the euro zone’s likely
future would feature a move toward adopting a common fiscal
policy.  Policy makers were criticized for their performance and
more than half of those polled said they anticipated civil
instability including riots in the next 12 months. Only 11
percent said European authorities had handled their economic
challenges the best, compared with 67 percent who cited U.S.
officials.  Asked how they viewed certain leaders from an investment
perspective, 59 percent said they viewed German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  pessimistically -- a reversal from the 55 percent
who said they were optimistic about her policies in May.
Seventy-one percent criticized French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Cameron  Outside the euro-area, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
split respondents, with 44 percent saying they were optimistic
about the impact of his policies on the investment climate and
42 percent responding negatively. Sixty-three percent viewed him
favorably. Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard was regarded
favorably by 36 percent of those surveyed.  Just over a month before  Jean-Claude Trichet  retires as
president of the  European Central Bank , poll participants were
divided over whether they viewed him favorably or unfavorably,
while 45 percent said the ECB’s policies had made little
difference to the crisis. About a quarter said the central bank
had played a constructive role in addressing the crisis; the
same proportion said the bank’s actions had exacerbated the
turmoil.  Trichet will be replaced on Nov. 1 by Bank of Italy
Governor Mario Draghi, viewed favorably by 36 percent, about the
same amount who said they didn’t know enough to give an
assessment. International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  was praised by 58 percent of respondents.
Seventy-three percent had an unfavorable view of News Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted Sept. 26
by Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm. It has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  