-- 
World’s Biggest Pension Fund Plans to Start Investing in Emerging Markets

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-30T07:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/world-s-biggest-pension-fund-plans-to-start-investing-in-emerging-markets.html
Japan’s public pension fund, the
world’s largest, will start investing in emerging market stocks
by the end of the year as it diversifies assets to maintain
stable returns.  The Government Pension Investment Fund , which oversees 114
trillion yen ($1.5 trillion), is in the final stage of deciding
the managers who will handle the investments, said Takahiro Mitani, president of the fund, known as GPIF. The investments
will be focused on markets included in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, he said.  “It looks like a good time to start investing in emerging
markets,” said Mitani in an interview in  Tokyo  on Sept. 27.
“Prospects for growth still remain strong for emerging markets
relative to the developed countries, which means expected
returns will be higher.”  The fund, whose majority of investments is in domestic
bonds, is seeking better returns to cover payments in the
world’s most rapidly aging society. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index has dropped 21 percent this year, more than the 12 percent
decline by the MSCI World Index of developed stocks, amid
inflationary concerns and as the European sovereign debt crisis
prompted investors to sell assets deemed risky.  The shares of companies included in the emerging-market
gauge, are trading at 9.9 times estimated 12-month earnings,
compared with 12.2 times for stocks in advanced economies.
Developing nations made up eight of the 10 best performers this
year among 93 global benchmark stock gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  Emerging Economies  MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which tracks 21 countries
including  Brazil ,  China ,  India ,  Russia  and  Turkey , fell 1.2
percent as of 4:48 p.m. in Tokyo today, while the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index lost 0.6 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast the world economy
will expand 4 percent this year and next on Sept. 20, compared
with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in
2012. IMF said it based its forecast of a “modest pickup of
activity” in advanced economies and of “robust growth” in
emerging counterparts on the premise that European policy makers
implement the measures to reinforce their bailout mechanism
agreed on in July.  GPIF will probably remain a net seller in the fiscal year
starting April 2012 to cover pension payments, Mitani said. The
fund will sell fewer Japanese bonds this fiscal year from its
portfolio than it sold last year as bonds reach maturity, he
said. It sold 4.7 trillion yen worth of bonds in the fiscal year
ended March 31, according to GPIF.  Investment Plan  Under a  five-year investment plan  set up in March 2010,
GPIF will allocate about two-thirds of its assets to domestic
bonds, 11 percent to Japanese stocks, 8 percent to foreign bonds,
9 percent to overseas equities and 5 percent to short-term
assets.  The March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami that led to a
nuclear crisis in  Japan  hasn’t affected its allocations, Mitani
said.  “There is no doubt that the disaster affected Japan’s
economy,” said Mitani. “But from a long-term investment plan
perspective, it didn’t have any significant impact for us.”  GPIF lost 0.25 percent, or 299 billion yen, in the year
ended March 31, as investments in Japanese equities and foreign
bonds fell in value, the fund said in July. For the three months
ended June 30, the fund returned 0.2 percent, or 240 billion yen,
as investments in bonds helped offset losses in equities, the
fund  said  in August.  Alternative Assets  The pension is the biggest in the world by assets under
management, according to the Towers Watson Global 300 survey
published in September, followed by  Norway ’s government pension.  GPIF has commissioned a study on alternative assets, such
as  hedge funds , real estate and private equity, as it seeks
investments that will not be correlated to the fund’s
traditional holdings of bonds and equities, Mitani said.  “Some say that other pension funds are investing in
alternatives, but given the size of our fund, we have to be
careful in making any decisions as the impact will be rather
significant,” Mitani said.  The likelihood of European economies collapsing because of
 Greece ’s sovereign debt problems is unlikely, given  Germany ’s
economic stability, Mitani said. In the U.S., the key will be
whether President  Barack Obama ’s proposals to spark the economy
and trim the nation’s long-term deficit will be effectively
implemented, he said.  “A fund like us cannot get too emotional over economic
conditions and change allocations accordingly on a short-term
basis,” Mitani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 