-- 
World Slump Seen Triggered by European Breakdown in Global Poll

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/world-slump-seen-triggered-by-european-breakdown-in-global-poll.html
International investors expect the
world economy to relapse into a recession, with more than one in
three forecasting a global economic meltdown within the next
year, according to a Bloomberg poll.  About two-thirds of those surveyed say the international
economy is deteriorating, up from just 18 percent who felt that
way in the last poll, in May. The increased gloom is centered on
the 17 countries that share the euro currency: Almost nine in 10
say the  euro zone  economy is worsening, according to the
quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll conducted Sept. 26 of 1,031
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “Action needs to be taken as soon as possible,” says
Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity Ltd. in Sheffield,
 England , and a poll participant. “Markets will not wait that
much longer.” If  Europe  fails to resolve its debt problem,
“this will lead to a recession, which will drag in the U.S.”  A plurality of those polled -- 43 percent -- expects a
world economic recession within the next year. More than seven
in 10 foresee a global slump within the next five years.  Thirty-seven percent forecast that a debt crisis in the
euro zone will lead to a global economic meltdown within the
next year. A majority think that will happen sometime in the
next five years.  ‘Crisis of Competency’  Investors are already responding by husbanding resources.
More than two in five say they’re increasing their holdings of
cash, the largest proportion that reported doing so since the
poll began asking that question in June 2010. A majority -- 56
percent -- believe that U.S. equities have entered a  bear
market , according to the poll.  They’re even more pessimistic about investment
opportunities in Europe. The region comes out worst when those
surveyed are asked to pick the markets that would be the least
attractive over the next six months: 53 percent cite the area
for that distinction. That’s the highest percentage for any
place since the question was first asked in October 2009.  Squabbling in the euro zone over sovereign debt and in the
U.S. over the federal budget have led to what  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  chief economist Bruce Kasman calls a “crisis of
competency” as investors question the ability of authorities to
act fast enough to avoid repeat recessions.  “This political gridlock on both sides of the Atlantic
unfortunately ripples out into the global economy,” says Scott Troxel, head of the Scandinavian desk for Tradition Group in
Lausanne,  Switzerland , and a poll respondent. The volatility in
financial markets “is a very telling tale of the ubiquitous
panic and uncertainty.”  Equities Slump  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks in developed nations has
swung widely over the last month, falling from 1,203 at the
start of September to a low of 1,089 on Sept. 22 before settling
yesterday at 1,122, down 12.3 percent on the year.  Equities have slumped as economic growth worldwide has
slowed. Retail sales in the U.S. stagnated in August while a
gauge of euro-area manufacturing last month fell to its lowest
level in two years.  The world economy grew 5.1 percent last year after
shrinking 0.7 percent in 2009, according to the  International
Monetary Fund  in Washington. Global growth of 3 percent or below
qualifies as a recession by IMF economists’ reckoning because
outright contractions of world economic activity are rare.  Danger From Derivatives  The more than $600 trillion in over-the-counter derivatives
outstanding increases the dangers of a meltdown, says  Michael McDougall , senior vice president at Newedge USA LLC in New York.  “That is a big time bomb,” says McDougall, who took part
in the survey.  While stocks are still seen as the best asset over the next
year, growing numbers of investors expect equities to fall
further in the interim. A majority say the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
will be lower six months from now, compared with one-third who
felt that way in May. The index closed at 2,176.64 yesterday.  About two in five forecast a fall in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index over the next half-year. That’s up from about one in
four who said that in May and is roughly in line with those now
expecting a rise. The index closed at 1,151.06 yesterday, down
2.1 percent.  The caution has spread to Asian stock markets. Three in 10
see the MSCI Asian Pacific Index falling over the next six
months; fewer than one in five said that in May. Just over 40
percent forecast a rise in the index, which closed yesterday at
113.84.  ‘Messy Ending’  Asian investors, usually the most optimistic in past polls,
have turned more cautious. Almost half see a global economic
meltdown in the next year, compared with one-third of European
and U.S. investors who believe that.  Fifty-five percent of respondents from  Asia  are raising the
amount of cash in their portfolios.  Mark Burges Watson, chief operating officer for Japaninvest
Group in  Tokyo , is one of them. He’s putting dollars in his own
account and is buying gold on price dips “in anticipation of a
possible messy ending in the euro zone -- sooner or later.  ‘‘My problem is that any short-term fix in the euro zone
will not address the basic incompatibilities which have been
there since the beginning,’’ he says.  Other respondents aren’t as enthusiastic about gold. More
than two in five expect prices of the precious metal to decline
over the next six months, while one in three say they’re
reducing their exposure to it. Gold futures for December
delivery fell $34.40, or 2.1 percent, to settle at $1,618.10 an
ounce at 1:43 p.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York .  Buy Bonds  Given the uncertainties, investors are beginning to look
more favorably toward buying bonds. While 27 percent of those
surveyed say bonds will offer the worst return over the next
year, that’s down from 35 percent in May and the lowest since
the poll began. The percentage of investors who say bonds will
offer the highest return more than doubled, to 15 percent.  Ambivalence stretches to the U.S. as well. Thirty percent
of investors tapped it as among the markets that will have the
best returns over the next year -- the highest of any country in
the poll. One in five took the opposite view, singling out the
world’s biggest economy as among the markets that will offer the
worst investment opportunities.  The dollar will remain the pre-eminent currency for some
time, according to the poll. Fewer than one in 10 of those
surveyed expect a move away from the use of the dollar as a
reserve currency within the next year. Thirty-eight percent
expect that to happen within the next two to five years.  Almost one in three investors are adding dollars to their
portfolio while fewer than one in five are reducing their
holdings of the U.S. currency, the poll found.  Arab Spring Doubts  Investors also have their doubts about the  Middle East .
Survey respondents aren’t worried about a major conflict anytime
soon, with only 3 percent expecting a large-scale war involving
 Israel  to break out in the region in the next year.  Still, they are split about whether the Arab Spring will
lead to a more democratic region. Forty eight percent of those
surveyed say they expect many of the countries involved in the
uprisings to be under some form of authoritarian rule in the
next five years, while 40 percent say most will be democratic.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer
& Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  