-- 
Worst Peso Slump Since ’08 Sparking Bond Losses: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-09-29T12:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/worst-peso-slump-since-08-sparking-bond-losses-mexico-credit.html
Mexico’s peso is posting its worst
quarter in three years on concern Europe’s financial crisis will
exacerbate a slowdown in the  U.S. economy , the destination for
80 percent of the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso’s 13.6 percent tumble against the dollar from the
end of June through yesterday is the biggest since the three-
month period ended December 2008 and the most among major
currencies after the Brazilian real and South African rand. The
currency’s plunge handed investors in peso bonds a loss of 8.3
percent in dollar terms this quarter, compared with an average
decline of 5.7 percent in local-currency emerging-market debt
tracked by Bank of America Corp.  Speculation the global economic deceleration will curb
exports from  developing countries  is helping fuel a sell-off in
emerging-market currencies that’s eroding dollar-based returns
for bond investors. The losses in the peso may worsen after
investors last week turned the most bearish against the currency
since October 2009, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  The peso “is at its core a U.S. and to a great extent a
global growth play,”  Mike Moran , a currency strategist at
 Standard Chartered  Bank in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Clearly in the past couple of weeks we’ve seen a
major downgrade in the market’s assumptions for the macro-
outlook for the next 12 months compounded by the concerns of a
euro-zone debt crisis spinning out of control.”  Yields Jump  Yields on Mexican government peso bonds due in 2024 jumped
38 basis points this month, or 0.38 percentage point, to 6.74
percent, heading for the biggest monthly increase since November
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
Brazil’s real-denominated securities maturing in 2021 rose six
basis points during the same period to 11.72 percent. Ten-year
U.S. Treasury yields sank 24 basis points this month to 1.98
percent and touched a record low of 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23.  The peso fell to 14.1395 per dollar on Sept. 23, its
weakest level in more than two years, and is down 9 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors are selling the peso and buying dollars
to hedge against losses in local Mexican bonds, exacerbating the
currency’s decline, said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
International investors hold about 40 percent of local fixed-
rate peso bonds, known as Mbonos, according to central bank
data.  ‘Ultimate’ Hedge  Bets on  Mexico ’s currency weakening against the dollar
outnumbered those on its appreciating by 16,890 contracts last
week, the most since October 2009, according to the Washington-
based CFTC.  “It becomes the ultimate market hedge where you’re exposed
in fixed-income, whether it’s Mexico or Brazil and you hedge
that position,” Cattan-Naslausky said.  Citigroup Inc.’s Mexico City-based Banamex unit cut its
2011 year-end forecast for the peso to 13.2 per dollar from 11.9
and its 2012 projection to 12.7 from 12.2.  Risk aversion  “has risen significantly in recent weeks,”
Banamex analyst Joel Virgen wrote in a research note on Sept.
26.  Standard Chartered said it reduced its 2011 year-end
forecast to 13.8 per dollar from 11.4 in a Sept. 26 report.  The peso may rebound to 12.5 per  U.S. dollar  if European
policy makers can solve the region’s debt crisis, said Omar Martin del Campo, the Mexico City-based head trader at Banco Ve
Por Mas SA.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that
European governments will step up efforts to resolve the
region’s debt crisis after they heard the concerns of global
finance officials last weekend’s meetings in  Washington .  ‘Solid Base’  The peso’s recent decline “is being completely influenced
by  Europe  and the lack of news that can give the market
certainty,” Martin del Campo said in a telephone interview.
“However, Mexico has a solid base. It has a high level of
international reserves. It has the capacity to take measures in
case they’re required.”  Mexico’s international reserves rose 20.1 percent this
year to $136.5 billion in the week ended Sept. 23, the central
bank said on Sept. 27.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to
261 at 8:15 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 13.4835 per U.S. dollar. The
currency’s 8.4 percent drop this year is the third biggest among
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
 Brazil ’s real and  Chile ’s peso.  Manufacturing Slump  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years has risen 83 basis points this quarter through
yesterday to 190, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in March 2013 rose five basis points yesterday to 4.99
percent.  The slump in manufacturing and consumer confidence in the
U.S. is hurting the peso, said Alejandro Padilla, a Mexico City-
based debt strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe.  New York-region manufacturing shrank for a fourth straight
month and in the Philadelphia area it contracted for a third
time in four months, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed.
Confidence among U.S. consumers stagnated in September to an
almost two-year low, according to data from the New York-based
private research group The Conference Board released this week.  “There are some fundamental issues that have pressured the
currency, mainly the slowdown of manufacturing activity,”
Padilla said in a telephone interview. “Manufacturing is
slowing down and there is also the problem of a confidence
crisis in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  