-- 
Dollar, Yen Gain as Global Slowdown Concern Spurs Haven Demand; Kiwi Falls

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-30T21:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/yen-dollar-strengthen-as-global-slowdown-concern-boosts-demand-for-haven.html
The dollar and the yen strengthened
as growing evidence that the global economy is slowing boosted
investor demand for currencies perceived as being the safest.  The 17-nation euro posted its biggest monthly decline
against the yen in more than a year after data showed German
retail sales fell by more than economists forecast and U.S.
 consumer spending  slowed in August.  New Zealand ’s dollar
extended its second week of losses against its U.S. counterpart
after  Standard & Poor’s  joined Fitch Ratings in cutting the
nation’s credit ratings. The Swiss franc strengthened against
the euro even after the central bank said it will prevent
currency gains.  “Today is a good reminder of the struggles the  currency
markets  have faced throughout the entire quarter: that’s been
concerns about global growth and then you’ve got the euro zone’s
long-running debt crisis,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-
exchange network. “The dollar, overall, is making some nice
gains against the euro.”  The dollar strengthened 1.5 percent to $1.3387 per euro at
5 p.m. in  New York , extending its advance this month to 7.3
percent. The Japanese currency gained 1.3 percent to 103.12 per
euro, set for a 7 percent advance this month. The greenback rose
0.3 percent to 77.06 yen, after touching the strongest level
since Sept. 15.  Kiwi Weak  The  New Zealand dollar  sank for a third day, dropping 1.3
percent to 76.14 U.S. cents, taking its loss this week to 2
percent and its monthly decline to 11 percent.  The yen has gained 12.6 percent in the past three months,
the best performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is
up 7.1 percent, while the euro is down 2 percent.  Brazil ’s real fell the most against the dollar today among
the major currencies, dropping 2.1 percent to 1.8794.  Canada ’s
dollar touched C$1.0504, its weakest level since Sept. 8, 2010.  The  Swiss National Bank  will enforce the cap on the franc
with all its determination, central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said at an event in Geneva yesterday.  “We will defend the ceiling with all measures,”
Hildebrand said. He declined to comment on the extent of the
central bank’s currency purchases to maintain the cap, calling
the measure “credible.”  Franc Ceiling  The SNB on Sept. 6 imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus
the euro and resumed purchases of foreign currencies to protect
exports as the euro-zone debt crisis drove investors toward the
relative safety of the Swiss currency.  The franc strengthened as much as 0.6 percent before
trading up 0.3 percent to 1.2157 per euro.  Signs that the euro area’s debt crisis is hurting the
region’s economy have prompted speculation that the  European
Central Bank  will lower borrowing costs next week.  Eight of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the
central bank will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by at least a
quarter-percentage point from the current rate of 1.5 percent at
its Oct. 6 policy meeting. The others expect no change.  European inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest
in almost three years in September, complicating the ECB’s task
as it fights the region’s worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3 percent this month
from 2.5 percent in August, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today in an initial estimate. That’s
the biggest annual increase in consumer prices since October
2008. Economists had projected inflation to hold at 2.5 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ECB Reading  Swaps traders are betting the central bank will lower the
rate by 40 basis points over the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index. That compares with a 25 basis-
point increase projected at the beginning of August.  “The European economy has slowed, but it’s not enough to
justify another easing,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “A
steady hand from the ECB will probably help the euro a little
bit next week, but it’ll only be a temporary respite from a
lively, very sharp fall.”  Franulovich said the euro will trade in the low $1.30s by
the end of the year.  German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, slumped 2.9 percent in August from July, when they rose
0.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. That’s the biggest drop since May 2007. Economists
forecast a 0.5 percent decline. Sales rose 2.2 percent in the
year.  Consumer Mood  Consumer spending in the U.S. gained 0.2 percent in August
after a revised 0.7 percent increase the previous month,
Commerce Department figures showed today.  New Zealand lost its AAA grades on local-currency debt at
 Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s, which both cited concerns
about the nation’s fiscal burden. The outlook is stable after
the long-term local-currency rating was reduced to AA+ and the
foreign-currency rating was cut to AA from AA+, S&P said in a
statement, matching actions announced yesterday by Fitch.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said he’s asked for the
issuance limit of bills to finance foreign-exchange intervention
to be raised by 15 trillion yen.  He also told reporters in  Tokyo  today that the ministry’s
monitoring of financial institutions’ foreign-exchange market
positions will be extended to the end of December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  