-- 
Typhoon Nesat, Strongest to Hit China This Year, Strikes Hainan

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-29T09:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/typhoon-nesat-strongest-to-hit-china-this-year-strikes-hainan.html
Typhoon Nesat, the strongest to hit
China this year, made landfall on the tropical province of
Hainan after having forced  Hong Kong  to close financial markets,
schools and government offices when it passed by the city
earlier today.  The storm made landfall in the township of Wengtian in
Wenchang city at 2:30 p.m. local time with winds moving as fast
as 150 kilometers per hour, the  China Meteorological
Administration  said in an e-mailed statement today. Nesat is the
strongest typhoon to hit the island province of Hainan in six
years, it said. Local authorities evacuated about 58,000 people,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Hong Kong raised its highest storm warning in two years
this morning as Typhoon Nesat swept past the city, clearing
streets in the financial district and prompting Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. to cancel equities and futures trading
for the day. The storm killed at least 35 people when it struck
the  Philippines  earlier this week and may continue past Hainan
to hit  Vietnam  by Oct. 1.  All flights and high-speed railway services to the resort
city of Sanya in Hainan were canceled ahead of Typhoon Nesat,
Xinhua reported. The provincial government has ordered all
departments, including fire, police and transportation to take
measures that help ensure minimum impact from the storm,
according to a statement posted to its website. Sanya’s tourism
department also ordered a halt of all activities on the sea.  National Holiday  The storm is striking two days before the country’s
weeklong National Day holiday begins on Oct. 1. China this year
introduced tax-free shopping in Hainan as part of efforts to
boost the province’s tourism industry. Revenue from tourism may
climb almost sixfold to 124 billion yuan by 2020 from 2009,
according to government estimates.  Hainan is  China ’s fourth-smallest provincial economy.  The Ritz Carlton Hotel in Sanya closed all its outdoor
services earlier today and notified customers of possible
evacuations, Xu Xiaoying, a public relations manager for the
location, said by telephone today. The hotel’s occupancy rate
for National Day holiday is at about 80 percent and hasn’t been
affected as the storm is forecast to have cleared by Oct. 1, Xu
said before the typhoon made landfall.  In addition to Hainan, Nesat is also forecast to cause
downpours in provinces including Guangxi, Hunan and Jiangxi in
the 24 hours to 2 p.m. local time tomorrow, according to the
Chinese weather agency. Parts of Guangdong and Hainan may suffer
“torrential rains,” it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  