-- 
Yuan Forwards Drop Most in a Week on Euro-Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-29T02:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-29/yuan-forwards-drop-most-in-a-week-on-euro-debt-crisis-concern.html
Yuan forwards declined the most in
a week on concern European leaders will struggle to contain the
region’s debt crisis, dimming the outlook for global growth.  China ’s economic growth will slow to 5 percent by 2016, from
9.5 percent last quarter, a Bloomberg poll indicated. The
European Commission is resisting a push to impose bigger
writedowns on bank holdings of Greek sovereign debt than those
previously agreed on, a European official said. China may peg
the yuan to the dollar or to a basket of currencies again if
there is a global recession,  Huang Yiping , Barclays Capital’s
chief economist for emerging  Asia , said in Beijing today.  “It’s a bad day as the strain in the  euro zone 
intensifies,” said  Tim Condon , Singapore-based head of Asian
research at ING Groep NV. “Investors are putting risks off and
the dollar is strengthening. There are also people who are
worried that China may have a hard landing.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.31 percent
to 6.3850 per dollar as of 10:30 a.m. in  Hong Kong , a 0.2
percent premium to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan fell 0.06 percent to 6.3977 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency has weakened 0.3 percent this month, paring its
quarterly advance to 1 percent. The People Bank’s of China set
its daily reference rate 0.07 percent weaker at 6.3665 per
dollar. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent
either side of the reference rate.  In Hong Kong, the yuan slumped 0.39 percent to 6.4725,
after strengthening 1 percent in the past three days, Bloomberg
data show.  U.S. Bill  China halted a three-year, 21 percent advance in the yuan
in July 2008 to help exporters weather a global recession. The
currency has strengthened 7 percent since the central bank
allowed appreciation to resume in June 2010.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents said China’s gross
domestic product will gain less than 5 percent annually by 2016.
Twelve percent see such a slowdown within a year, and 47 percent
said it will occur in two to five years, the quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers showed.  The Obama administration views China’s currency as
“substantially undervalued” and is reviewing legislation that
aims to penalize the world’s second-largest economy, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  The legislation would let U.S. companies seek duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan,
which lawmakers said gives Chinese companies an unfair advantage
against U.S. manufacturers. Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of
 Utah  has asked the administration to clarify its stance on the
legality of the legislation before the Senate debates it next
week.  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  