-- 
Cold-War Law Blocks Doubling U.S. Trade With Russia Under WTO

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/-74-law-blocks-doubling-u-s-trade-with-russia.html
The U.S. risks losing out on a
potential doubling of exports to  Russia  unless Congress repeals
a Cold War-era law passed to punish the Communist Soviet Union.  The  World Trade Organization ’s pending approval of Russia’s
membership may leave the U.S. unable to take advantage of a 22
percent reduction in tariffs that European and Asian nations
will enjoy.  The obstacle is the Jackson-Vanik amendment, passed by
Congress in 1974 to bar favorable trade relations with the
Soviet Union because it wouldn’t let Jewish citizens emigrate.
Lawmakers such as Representatives Chris Smith and Ileana Ros- Lehtinen have questioned repealing the law and easing trade with
Russia because of its human-rights and economic policies.  “Unless Congress passes a repeal, the U.S. business
community is not on equal footing with European and Asian
competitors,” Randi Levinas, executive vice president of the
U.S.-Russia Business Council, with members such as  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
General Motors Co. and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said in an interview.
“They won’t get the same benefits when Russia joins.”  President  Barack Obama  has said he supports Russia’s entry
into the WTO, the international trade arbiter. Membership for
the largest nation outside the 153-member group will be put to a
vote at a meeting of trade ministers Dec. 16 in Geneva. Russia’s
Duma, the lower house of parliament, has until mid-June to
ratify the accord, the final step before it takes effect. Maxim Medvedkov, Russia’s chief WTO negotiator, said Nov. 10 in Geneva
that Russian lawmakers will probably approve membership early
next year.  More Open  U.S. exports to Russia may more than double in five years,
to $19 billion from $9 billion in 2010, under WTO membership,
according to a report last month from the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington .  More important is that WTO rules would require Russia to
become a more open trading partner, with greater respect for
intellectual property and more consistent food-safety
regulations, according to Levinas. Such transparency may improve
Russia’s ranking at 120th of 183 nations in the  World Bank ’s
 report on  the ease of doing business.  The U.S. had a $19.7 billion trade deficit with Russia last
year, according to the U.S. Trade Representative’s office. Trade
between the two nations has increased almost sevenfold since
1993, when the U.S. began granting annual waivers from the
restrictions, according to a report by Bloomberg Government.  Russia exported more than $400 billion in goods last year,
mainly to the European Union, Ukraine,  Turkey ,  China  and
Belarus, according to the WTO. Imports were valued at almost
$249 billion. Trade in services such as transportation and
travel was $114 billion.  ‘Not Relevant’  “Congress and the administration know full well Jackson-
Vanik has to go,” Joshua Meltzer, a fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington specializing in global economy and
development, said in an interview. “The issues that were around
many, many years ago, they’re not relevant at all.”  An impediment to Russia joining the WTO was removed last
month when Russia and Georgia agreed on how to handle trade
along their disputed border.  “Russia’s membership in the WTO will lower tariffs,
improve international access to Russia’s services markets, hold
the Russian government accountable to a system of rules
governing trade behavior, and provide the means to enforce those
rules,” Obama said in a Nov. 10 statement.  That view isn’t universal in Congress, where some members,
such as Smith, a New Jersey Republican, question whether Russia
has done enough to warrant full trade benefits or sufficiently
changed its ways since emerging as a nation after the collapse
of the  Soviet Union  in 1991.  ‘Foolish Talk’  “It’s moving in the wrong direction,” Smith said in an
interview. “I’m looking for a trend. I don’t expect it to have
arrived, but expect it to be on the right path.”  Smith said he’s undecided on repealing Jackson-Vanik and
that the administration hasn’t prodded Russia enough toward
democracy, religious freedom and free speech due to what Obama
has called his “reset” in relations between the nations.  “There was foolish talk about ‘resetting,’” Smith, a
member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said. “Reset
what? What does it mean?”  The House Ways and Means Committee hasn’t scheduled action
on repealing Jackson-Vanik, according to Jim Billimoria, the
panel’s spokesman.  “I’m not ready to do anything on Jackson-Vanik,” Ros-
Lehtinen, a Florida Republican who is chairman of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a Nov. 16 interview. Once the
U.S. normalizes relations with Russia, it would have little
leverage to press for improvement in human rights or movement
toward greater democracy, Ros-Lehtinen said.  Election Protests  Tens of thousands of people gathered in more than 30
Russian cities on Dec. 10 to protest fraud in parliamentary
elections. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe , the continent’s democracy watchdog, the U.S.,  Germany 
and the EU criticized violations during the Dec. 4 vote.  The leaders of the Judiciary committees in the U.S. House
and Senate have “significant concerns” about whether Russia
will respect U.S. intellectual-property rights, according to a
Nov. 9 letter signed by the senior Democrats and Republicans on
the panels.  With Jackson-Vanik still in place, Russia would have the
discretion to keeps tariffs higher in trade with the U.S. than
the WTO provides for other members, according to Howard Rosen, a
fellow at the Peterson Institute. In addition, the U.S. wouldn’t
benefit from the intellectual-property protection and adoption
of food safety regulations, he said.  ‘Move Forward’  “The question would be best posed to Russia,” Rosen said
in an interview. “Would they be willing to move forward if it
is not removed?”  Representatives at the Russian embassy in Washington didn’t
return messages seeking comment.  Under the terms of its WTO agreement, Russia would
gradually cut its average tariff ceiling with the U.S. for
manufactured goods to 7.3 percent from 9.5 percent currently.
Duties on farm products would drop to 10.8 percent from 13.2
percent. On average, the tariff cap on Russian goods would fall
to 7.8 percent from 10 percent now, a 22 percent cut.  Tariffs on dairy products would fall to 14.9 percent from
19.8 percent, automobiles would be cut to 12 percent from 15.5
percent and tariffs on cereals would decline to 10 percent from
15.1 percent.  Beef, Pork, Poultry  Foreign beef, pork and poultry entering Russia’s market
would face lower tariffs while higher duties would be applied to
products exceeding quotas, under the WTO agreement. The longest
period for implementation is eight years for poultry, followed
by seven years for cars, helicopters and civil aircraft.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business
association, will lobby lawmakers to repeal the trade barrier,
according to Christopher Wenk, senior director for international
policy for the Washington-based group.  “The business community will be talking about commercial
benefits, the economic benefits of having Russia in the WTO,”
Wenk said in an interview. “It’s only good to have them under
the tent playing by the same rules as the WTO.”  Ultimately, fate of the Jackson-Vanik restrictions that
were crafted by Senator Henry “Scoop” Jackson, a Washington
Democrat, may depend on the stand taken by House Speaker  John Boehner . In a speech on Oct. 25, before Russia reached agreement
with its neighbor, the Ohio Republican expressed concern for
 Georgia ’s “territorial integrity.” The two former Soviet
states fought a five-day war in 2008.  Boehner also cited “significant outstanding commercial
issues that must be addressed,” without elaboration.  Michael
Steel , a Boehner spokesman, didn’t respond to inquiries about
the speaker’s intentions on Jackson-Vanik.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  