-- 
FSA Identified RBS CEO’s ‘Dominant’ Style as Problem in 2004, Report Finds

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/-dominant-goodwin-perturbed-rbs-s-regulators-going-back-to-2004.html
Four years before  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  collapsed, Britain’s Financial Services
Authority identified then-Chief Executive Officer Fred Goodwin’s
“dominant” management style as a risk.  A  report  into the near collapse of Edinburgh-based RBS
released by the FSA yesterday said that rather than challenge
Goodwin, regulators were too lenient dealing with him.  In 2005, Goodwin asked that FSA staff water down written
concerns about RBS risk management after he was shown drafts of
correspondence the regulator was preparing to send to the bank’s
board. Acceding to Goodwin’s demands for a rewrite was “common
practice” by FSA staff at the time, the report said.  “More should have been done to address concerns that the
CEO was dominant and that he received insufficient challenge
from the RBS board,” the report said. “Greater consideration
should have been given to escalating the concern.”  When the regulator sought one-on-one meetings with the
bank’s non-executive directors to seek reassurance that proper
governance procedures were in place, RBS refused and complained
that its employees “should not be picked off.” The FSA is
being split up by the government next year as part of the May
2010 coalition accord between the Conservative and Liberal
Democrat parties, which said the existing regulatory system is
“fundamentally flawed and needs to be replaced.”  ‘Vigor of Pushback’  “Records from 2004 suggest that RBS management, and in
particular the RBS CEO, had been resistant to what they saw as
unnecessary FSA interference,” the regulator said in the
report. “RBS stood out among its peers in terms of the
regularity and vigor of pushback against FSA policy initiatives
and resistance to enquiries with which it felt uncomfortable.”  A spokesman for  Norton Rose , a  law firm  Goodwin has
employed, declined to comment.  In the four years before its collapse, Goodwin tripled the
bank’s balance sheet to 2.4 trillion pounds ($3.7 trillion). The
FSA also said he made the lender “excessively dependent” on
short-term funding, which was exacerbated after the 72 billion-
euro ($95 billion) purchase of ABN Amro Holdings NV. That
dependence brought RBS down when markets seized up following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. on Sept. 15, 2008.  The FSA’s study indicated RBS’s 2007 Tier 1 capital ratio,
a measure of financial strength, would have been about 1.97
percent of risk-weighted assets under the more rigorous rules
now in force -- less than a quarter of the ratio now required.  ABN Due Diligence  Under international Basel III rules being implemented
through 2019, the lender would also have needed as much as 166
billion pounds in additional “high-quality unencumbered liquid
assets,” the FSA said.  Goodwin pushed ahead with the ABN deal, the biggest-ever
bank takeover, even though the due diligence gleaned from the
Dutch lender amounted to little more than two binders and a
compact disk, the FSA said.  The report said RBS had a misplaced sense of confidence
given its success with previous acquisitions, particularly the
purchase of National Westminster Bank Plc, the U.K.’s third-
biggest bank, in 2000.  “After we bought NatWest, we had lots of surprises, but
almost all of them were pleasant,” RBS’s former investment-
banking chief, Johnny Cameron, said in an interview with the
FSA. “That lulled us into a sense of complacency.”  A spokeswoman for Cameron didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail requesting comment.  ‘Optimistic’ Cameron  Cameron built RBS’s global banking and markets business
before 2008, entering the U.S. and expanding into credit
trading. He “tended to take an optimistic view of what was
likely to happen and had often in his life been proved right,”
and that may have clouded his judgment over the  ABN Amro 
takeover, the regulator said.  The FSA criticized RBS for financing the purchase of ABN
mostly though debt, not equity. RBS paid 4.3 billion euros in
stock and 22.6 billion euros in cash to ABN shareholders. Most
of the cash consideration was funded by debt, 12.3 billion euros
of which matured in under a year, the FSA said.  “Whether the acquisition of ABN Amro was the crucial
factor which brought RBS down is a matter for debate,” the
report said. “However, it is clear that the acquisition
undoubtedly contributed significantly to RBS’s vulnerability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  