-- 
Treasuries Advance After $21 Billion 10-Year Auction Draws Strong Demand

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-12-13T18:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/-treasuries-advance-after-21-billion-10-year-auction-draws-strong-demand.html
Treasuries  gained for a second day
after the U.S. sale of $21 billion in 10-year notes attracted
higher-than-average demand, bolstered by concern  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is far from a resolution.  The securities drew a  yield  of 2.020 percent, compared with
a forecast of 2.050 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of debt offered, was 3.53, the strongest level since
April 2010. The Fed is holding its December meeting today.  “We’re still being driven largely by what’s happening in
Europe,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New
York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “That crisis has been driving everything and there
doesn’t appear to be any endgame in sight. As long as that’s the
case, it’s going to help fuel a flight-to-quality bid.”  The  yield  on the current 10-year note fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 1:26 p.m.
in  New York , according to BGCantor Market Data. Earlier it rose
to as high as 2.06 percent.  Thirty-year bond  yields decreased
two basis points to 3.04 percent after advancing earlier to 3.10
percent.  “Clearly investors like Treasuries at these levels, given
continued concern about risk assets headed into the end of the
year as concern about a weakening Europe and economy remains,”
said  Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in  Chicago , which as a
primary dealer is required to bid in U.S. debt sales. “You are
not supposed to be a big seller of Treasuries right now.”  Fed Meeting  The Fed will hold  interest rates  near zero, according to
all 64 economists in a Bloomberg survey before a statement from
policy makers at 2 p.m.  Treasuries fell earlier as Europe’s bailout fund sold the
maximum amount at its first auction of bills, reducing refuge
demand. They briefly pared declines after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  rejected raising the upper limit of funding for
another rescue mechanism.  At today’s auction, indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 61.9 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 46.7 percent for the past
10 offerings. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that
place their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 8.4 percent,
versus an average of 10.1 percent at the past 10 auctions.  Record in September  Last month’s offering of 10-year notes drew a yield of 2.03
percent, and the September sale yielded a record low 2 percent.  Ten-year notes have returned 15.6 percent this year,
outperforming the 9.2 percent gain by the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S. is selling $78 billion in notes, bonds and
inflation-indexed debt this week. It’s due to auction $13
billion of 30-year debt tomorrow and $12 billion of five-year
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities on Dec 15 after selling
$32 billion in three-year notes yesterday to a record bid-to-
cover ratio of 3.62.  The European Financial Stability Facility issued 1.97
billion euros ($2.6 billion) of 91-day bills at an average yield
of 0.2222 percent, the Bundesbank said. Investors bid for 3.2
times the amount sold, the German central bank said. The EFSF
sells debt to finance rescue loans extended to Europe’s high
debt and deficit nations.  U.S. Retail Sales  Treasury yields  remained higher earlier after a report
showed U.S. retail sales increased in November at the slowest
pace in five months. They rose 0.2 percent following a 0.6
percent advance in October that was more than initially
reported, Commerce Department figures showed. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent November increase, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Recent reports have shown U.S. unemployment fell,
manufacturing picked up and  consumer confidence  climbed by the
most in eight years.  All of the 64 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the Fed will keep its target  lending rate  today at
zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  The central bank will probably revise its pledge to hold
rates close to zero through mid-2013 as the need for large-scale
asset purchases diminishes, another Bloomberg survey showed.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter maturities in
its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs in a plan it announced in September. It
purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related bonds
from 2008 through June in two rounds of quantitative easing to
support the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  