-- 
ABN Amro Remains Bullish on U.S. Equities as Europe Heads for Recession

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-12-13T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/abn-amro-remains-bullish-on-u-s-equities-as-europe-heads-for-recession.html
U.S. stocks can avoid the effects of
 Europe ’s intensifying sovereign-debt crisis, leading ABN Amro
Private Banking to remain positive on the world’s largest
economy, according to Chief Investment Officer Didier Duret.  The bank that manages 164 billion euros ($217 billion) for
clients cut its overall allocation to equities to an
“underweight” stance on  Nov. 11, taking advantage of its
positive stance from the middle of August. The wealth manager
has maintained its “overweight” allocation in U.S. stocks,
citing the prospects for  corporate profit growth (SPX)  and faster  job
creation  in the country.  “The job machine is probably back in the U.S.,” Duret
said in a phone interview from Amsterdam yesterday. “There is
more resilience in the U.S. market from an earnings perspective.
In Europe, you are seeing earnings being downgraded, but in the
U.S. this is not the case.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 1.7 percent
this year, making the gauge among the best performing of 24
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg News. Stock markets
around the world have struggled to make any headway this year as
Europe’s debt crisis spread to  Italy  and  Spain  and economic
growth in the U.S. slowed.  Europe will experience a recession next year as austerity
measures weaken growth, Duret said. The biggest risk to a rally
in U.S. stocks is the “strong systemic risk” that the debt
crisis will worsen, he said. ABN Amro Private Banking currently
holds 34 percent of its balanced portfolio in equities, with 30
percent in cash, 28 percent in bonds and 8 percent in
alternative investments.  European Fiscal Union  European Union leaders meeting in Brussels last week  agreed 
to move toward fiscal union, with penalties for countries
violating budgetary constraints. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and the other key euro-area leaders aim to stem the erosion of
confidence in the ability of some nations to repay their debts.
 Stocks climbed  and bonds fell after the announcement on Dec. 9.  “We don’t think we have seen the silver bullet to
stabilize the situation in Europe,” Duret said. “The compact
is progress, but it’s not a comprehensive solution. We remain
doubtful.”  ABN also kept its “overweight” stance on equities in
 China , Malaysia and Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  