-- 
Taiwan Dollar Drops, Bonds Gain on Europe Debt-Crisis Concerns

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-12-13T08:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/taiwan-dollar-drops-bonds-gain-on-europe-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Taiwan’s dollar fell to its lowest
level in more than a week as concern European nations will have
their credit ratings cut curbed demand for emerging-market
assets.  Government bonds  advanced.  The Taiex Index of shares fell as much as 1.4 percent after
Moody’s Investors Service said the European Union’s summit last
week did little to address the region’s debt crisis and doesn’t
diminish the risk of downgrades.  Fitch Ratings  said a
comprehensive solution hasn’t yet been offered and predicted a
“significant economic downturn” in  Europe .  “Asian currencies, including the Taiwan dollar, are weaker
as turmoil in the European market continues,” said Tarsicio Tong, a trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “The economic
outlook for 2012 is not so bright and currencies may continue to
weaken. But the central bank would probably like to see the
Taiwanese dollar trading in a range.”  The  Taiwan dollar  fell 0.1 percent to NT$30.26 against its
U.S. counterpart in Taipei, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
touched NT$30.310, the weakest level since Dec. 1. Global funds
sold $9.4 billion more Taiwanese shares than they bought this
year, the biggest net sales in Asia, exchange data show.  Asian economies face “much greater downside risks” now
because of the possibility of recessions in the U.S. and Europe
and the threat of destabilizing capital flows, the  Asian
Development Bank  said on Dec. 6. The biggest challenge for
policy makers in emerging East Asian nations is to safeguard
growth against the threat of another global economic crisis, the
Manila-based lender said in its  Asia  Economic Monitor report.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due
September 2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 1.26 percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Sandy
Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  