-- 
Man Invents Curiosity, Then Boredom (Part 2): Winifred Gallagher

-- B y   W i n i f r e d   G a l l a g h e r
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/man-invents-curiosity-then-boredom-part-2-winifred-gallagher.html
Neophilia, our genius for dealing
with all things new, enabled early humans to adapt to droughts
and floods, experiment with new technologies and venture into
unknown territory in search of resources. By 10,000 years ago,
however, many of our ancestors had become farmers in
settlements. Living in large groups increased intellectual
stimulation as well as safety, and our early agrarian forebears
could devote more of their explorative energy to creative
achievements, both cerebral and practical.  About 8,000 years ago, they invented written symbols to
represent words, for example, and 3,000 years after that,
sanitary drains and public baths. On the other hand, big
populations also required more rules and regulations for keeping
order, which gave rise to what we’ve come to think of as “the
establishment.” Then, as now, the powers that be imposed limits
on novelty seeking and cast unauthorized questions and quests as
crude, subversive or even heretical.  The history of curiosity testifies to society’s strong
influence in determining whether neophilia is a virtue or a
vice. Even the philosophical Greeks and Romans were wary of
inquiring too deeply into the way things are. Christianity only
intensified this wariness.  Too Many Questions  “The desire to search for something hidden by God for good
reason was a deliberate violation of the order of things,” says
literary scholar Barbara Benedict. In an era of rigidly
stratified classes, asking too many questions was regarded as
insubordinate in the social as well as religious sphere. “To
uncover what is hidden was associated with ambition,” Benedict
says. “By wanting to know more and be more than other people,
you were overstepping your status.”  Like individual rights, the concept of curiosity as a
laudable urge is an innovation from the Age of Reason. By the
early 18th century, John Locke generated a tidal wave of
intellectual neophilia. His theory of empiricism stated that
true knowledge is based not on faith or revelation but on
experience, ideally supported by evidence or experimentation.
This bold assertion was a giant step toward establishing
science’s primacy in determining truth and our modern ideas
about the self’s uniqueness and importance.  “Almost like a little god,” explains Benedict, “you had
the ability to make your own identity by experiencing the world
around you.”  The accelerating Industrial Revolution also encouraged
neophilia by swelling the ranks of a prosperous, independent-
minded middle class.  Europe ’s booming imperialistic economies
expanded people’s worldviews by flooding the market with exotic
foreign commodities as well as the first cheap books, which
circulated the latest incendiary ideas and adventure stories.
It’s no accident that Daniel Defoe’s “Robinson Crusoe” (1719),
which chronicled the protagonist’s New World encounters with the
new and different, became a best seller.  The West’s new open-mindedness transformed even wealthy
grandees who took up shockingly novel pursuits, such as
assembling the first scientific collections of rocks, fossils
and other things previously thought worthless. The Enlightenment
had an even more galvanizing effect on society’s lower and
middle strata. Increased literacy helped to advance the idea
that anyone of any station could choose what to buy, read or
think -- even women. Suddenly, to be inquisitive no longer meant
overstepping your place.  State of Mind  The English language began to reflect these major social
and psychological changes. The word “curiosity” had previously
referred to a rare, foreign or artfully made object. But now it
was also applied to an inquiring state of mind, and “curious”
to the person who cultivated it.  “Interesting” underwent a
similar evolution. The word had traditionally meant
“important” and was also applied to objects, such as artwork.
By 1800, however, it also referred to one’s subjective
evaluation of a thing’s capacity to draw and hold one’s
attention -- an increasingly important concern.  The very different state of boredom -- the unpleasant sense
that nothing interests you -- is largely a modern condition. The
word itself has no derivation; “boredom” stems from no other
word but was specially created, and not until the late 18th
century. Before then, a feeling of disinterest was considered to
be a moral and intellectual failure. By declaring that “when a
man is tired of  London , he is tired of life,” Samuel Johnson
(1709-84) asserted that it’s your own fault if you can’t find
things to interest you. Upper-class women of Johnson’s day
agreed. Despite the strictures imposed upon them, they took
responsibility for the quality of their lives, arranged to spend
a lot of time enjoying one another’s company, and weren’t bored.  Ultimately, the conviction that boredom was your own damned
fault began to weaken. Tedium was increasingly blamed on social
and physical environments that failed to engage.  Charles Dickens 
first referred to boredom in an 1836 pamphlet, in which he
attributed workingmen’s drunkenness on Sundays to the Sabbath’s
lack of structure. By 1852, he used the term six times in
“Bleak House.”  In the 21st century, few would agree with Oscar Wilde’s
old-fashioned assertion that ennui is “the one sin for which
there is no forgiveness.” Our increasingly fidgety behavior in
queues and other public settings suggests that the whole
culture’s threshold for tedium lowers by the day. Forced to
withstand more than a few minutes in one of the shrinking number
of places not wired for perpetual TV, we fiddle with our smart
gadgets, hoping for a headline, text or ball-game score to
check, and engage in the old-fashioned pastime of daydreaming
only as a last resort.  (Winifred Gallagher is the author of “Rapt: Attention and
the Focused Life” and “House Thinking.” This is the second in
a three-part series of excerpts from her book “New:
Understanding Our Need for Novelty and Change,” to be published
Jan. 2, 2012, by Penguin Press. The opinions expressed are her
own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
Winifred Gallagher at  winigallagher@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 