-- 
Lan Kwai Fong May Raise $800 Million to Fund China Expansion

-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-14T04:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/lan-kwai-fong-may-raise-800m-for-china-expansion.html
Lan Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd. ,
developer of  Hong Kong ’s stretch of bars and restaurants of the
same name, plans to raise as much as $800 million next year and
may consider a public offering later as it expands in China.  “We have been talking to several investment banks about
raising $700 million to $800 million in the first quarter,”
Chairman Allan Zeman said by phone yesterday, without specifying
whether the company will sell shares or borrow money. “An IPO
is one of the options, but it’s too far off.”  Lan Kwai Fong, in the center of the former British colony’s
central business district, has more than 100 restaurants and
bars, not all controlled by the company. Zeman said the company
plans to develop a similar district in Hainan province, a resort
island off  China ’s south coast, and will seek new opportunities
in the cities of Hangzhou and Dalian.  “It once again underlines interest in China’s consumer
market,” Richard Ding, chief executive officer of Royal China
Group, a Shanghai-based investment and consulting company in
retail and property, said in a phone interview today. “Under
the current situation, the high-end segment offers even more
attractive returns for them.”  Guangzhou Expansion  Consumer companies such as Lan Kwai Fong Holdings are
seeking to grow in China as the nation’s consumers get richer.
The country’s per-capita disposable  income  for urban households
rose 8 percent to 19,109 yuan ($3,002) last year, almost double
that of 2005, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  Lan Kwai Fong Holdings set up a similar bar-and-restaurant
area inside a 1.6 million-square-foot shopping mall in  Guangzhou 
in southern China earlier this year.  The original  Lan Kwai Fong  in Hong Kong started in the
1980s with a restaurant that served hamburgers, according to the
company’s website. The stretch is now an after-work hangout for
white-collar workers.  A two-year redevelopment plan, which includes adding a 28-
story building with terraces on every floor for smokers who are
banned from lighting up indoors, is scheduled to be completed by
2013, Zeman said in a January interview.  Hong Kong’s Sing Tao Daily yesterday reported Lan Kwai Fong
Holdings aims to raise as much as $800 million in an initial
offering. Zeman, who is locally referred to as “the father of
Lan Kwai Fong,” said the company is still evaluating how to
raise the funds.  Zeman, 63, in 2008 gave up his Canadian passport to become
a naturalized Chinese citizen.  In 1975 he founded a sourcing company to export clothing to
 Canada , according to the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce
website. The company, Colby International, was in 2000 sold to
Li & Fung Ltd., now the largest supplier of toys, clothing and
other  consumer goods  to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  