-- 
Suicide-Grenade Attack in Belgian City of Liege Leaves Five Dead, 132 Hurt

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-14T00:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hand-grenade-attack-in-belgian-city-of-liege-kills-two-people-injures-60.html
A suicide attacker in the Belgian
city of Liege tossed grenades into a crowd and then sprayed it
with bullets, leaving at least five people dead including a 17-
month-old toddler.  At least 132 were wounded in yesterday’s assault at a bus
stop, according to preliminary official figures. The dead also
included “a 15-year-old -- a young boy who died on the spot --a
17-year-old and a 75-year-old woman,” city prosecutor Daniele
Reynders said in a televised press conference.  A fifth fatality, a 17-month-old toddler, was confirmed by
Eddy Lambert, spokesman for CHC hospital in Liege.  The 33-year-old assailant, Nordine Amrani, who fatally shot
himself, had been convicted on arms and drugs charges, Reynders
said, adding that he had never been charged with terrorism. An
inquiry will determine if the attack was premeditated, Reynders
said.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said he is
“ completely overwhelmed ” by the “atrocious murders” in
Liege. “Faced with the inexplicable, I am perplexed, I am
horrified,” said  Van Rompuy , who was Belgian prime minister
from December 2008 to November 2009.  The attacker, who lived in Liege, arrived at Saint Lambert
Square, a busy shopping district, in a van with his weapons -- a
pistol, a rifle and grenades -- in a bag. He had been summoned
for questioning by police. Officials destroyed Amrani’s van,
Reynders said.  “We’d never observed that he had any mental problems,”
Reynders said.  ‘Massive Panic’  Marta Pawelczyk, 22, a student at the University of Liege,
was coming back home from classes when the attack occurred.  “I was at another bus stop about 200 meters from Place
Saint Lambert when it happened,” Pawelczyk said by telephone.
“There’s a Christmas market there. Around 12:20 I heard a
series of very loud explosions. Then I saw people running and
telling others to run away from there.”  “There were lots of police cars and ambulances and more
people from the market running toward us,” she said. “There
was massive panic, everyone was calling their families, some
were saying goodbye. It was frightening. I’ve calmed down a
little now, but I still can’t come to grips with what’s
happened.”  Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo traveled to Liege today to meet
with emergency and law enforcement officials, his spokesman
Guillaume de Walque said in an e-mailed statement. “His first
thoughts are for the victims, their families and those close to
them,” de Walque said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  