-- 
Marriott’s Arne Sorenson to Replace J.W. Marriott Jr. as CEO of Hotelier

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-12-13T23:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/marriott-s-arne-sorenson-to-replace-j-w-marriott-jr-as-chief-executive.html
Marriott International Inc. , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said Arne Sorenson
will replace J.W. Marriott Jr. as chief executive officer.  Marriott will become executive chairman and chairman of the
board, and Robert McCarthy will be chief operating officer, the
company said today in a statement. The changes are effective
March 31. Sorenson, currently president and chief operating
officer, joined Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott in 1996. He’ll
be the third CEO in the company’s history and will continue as
president.  The hotelier announced organizational changes this year,
including the spinoff of its timeshare business, which had been
hurt by a slump in demand as economic growth slowed. The company
said in February that it would separate the unit later this year
to concentrate on operating properties, including the Ritz-
Carlton brand.  “As we approach the 85th birthday of our company in 2012
and I proudly celebrate my 60th year of service, I decided to
recommend to the board that Arne Sorenson take over the CEO
responsibilities,” J.W. Marriott Jr., 79, said in the
statement.  “My energies will also be directed at continuing to
reinforce the timeless core values that have been the bedrock of
our success and to being a company ambassador as we build
opportunity around the world,” he said. “To achieve that
growth, the right leadership is critical. That’s why I am
enormously pleased that Arne will become CEO.”  At its hotel operations, Marriott is breaking into the
boutique segment by expanding its Edition brand. The company,
which is joining  Ian Schrager  in the effort, agreed in October
to buy the Clock Tower office building near Madison Square Park
in  Manhattan  for an Edition hotel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  