-- 
Harrisburg Judge Rejects Appeal of Bankruptcy Dismissal

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-13T21:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/harrisburg-judge-rejects-city-council-s-appeal-of-bankruptcy-dismissal.html
The Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , city
council lost a bid to appeal dismissal of the city’s bankruptcy
petition as the judge in the case ruled a procedural step had
come too late.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  refused to give the
council extra time to file a so-called notice of appeal, the
first step in trying to overturn the dismissal. France
criticized the attorney, who handled the council’s case,  Mark
Schwartz , saying he erred by not filing the appeal soon after
she threw out the bankruptcy on Nov. 23.  “His failure to act is inexplicable and unjustifiable,”
France wrote in an opinion issued today in Harrisburg.  The council put the capital city of Pennsylvania into
bankruptcy in October, disregarding a state law that banned such
a filing. Under Chapter 9 of the federal  bankruptcy code , state
authorization is necessary, so France threw out the case.
Schwartz and the council had tried to persuade France that the
state ban violated Pennsylvania’s constitution.  Schwartz said he waited to file the notice until after the
judge issued a written opinion justifying her ruling on Dec. 5.
He needed time to read the opinion and consult with the city
council, he said in a phone interview. The last day to file the
appeal, based on France’s oral ruling on Nov. 23, was Dec. 7.  ’Time to Digest’  “It took time to digest the 30-page opinion, and it took
time to canvass people,” Schwartz said.  He said he is considering his legal options.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces a debt five times its
general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of an
incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue. Guaranteed
debt is about $242 million, with $65 million overdue, according
to the bankruptcy petition.  On Dec. 1, a state judge confirmed the appointment of David Unkovic, chief lawyer for the state economic development
department, as a receiver to run the city. Unkovic has the power
to overrule the city council and Harrisburg’s mayor.  The case is In re  City of Harrisburg , Pennsylvania,
11-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net  