-- 
Art Dealers Get Tough as $83 Million Chinese Vase Goes Unpaid

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/art-dealers-get-tough-as-83-million-chinese-vase-goes-unpaid.html
The most expensive Chinese work of
art at auction is still not paid for, more than a year after it
was bid to 51.6 million pounds ($83 million).  The elaborately decorated Qing-dynasty porcelain vase had
been found in a routine house clearance and was included in a
sale of antiques on Nov. 11, 2010, by Bainbridges of west
 London . Its price was more than 50 times the presale estimate
and the auction house ceased to comment after several months
passed without payment.  Payment is still awaited, a dealer with knowledge of the 
matter said in an interview. Though some money has changed 
hands, it doesn’t look as if settlement is imminent, he said.  The record price was the most spectacular in recent sales
that saw Asian clients bid multiples of the estimates for rare
objects made for Chinese emperors. Bidding hasn’t always been
translated into final payment in an international trade that is
now valued at $10 billion.  Auctioneer Peter Bainbridge, who broke his hammer as the
record was set, wasn’t prepared to publicly comment when visited
by Bloomberg News in his West Ruislip auction rooms.  “I’ve signed a confidentiality clause with the buyer,”
said Bainbridge, dressed in a frayed crew-neck sweater as he
moved pieces of Victorian furniture entered into his next
general sale. He would not confirm that the successful bidder on
the vase had failed to settle the bill, nor that some money had
changed hands.  Hong Kong  Offer  “Once you accept a part-payment, your hands are tied,”
said the London dealer  John Berwald . “Perhaps they should have
just canceled the deal and re-offered the vase in Hong Kong. I
believe it’s 100 percent genuine. Second time around, it could
be worth at least 20 million pounds.”  The piece, thought to be associated with the Qianlong
Emperor, went to an agent in the room bidding on behalf of a
Chinese collector. The vase featured a pierced “reticulated”
body painted in a famille rose palette, and was discovered in
the London suburb of Pinner. It was owned by a retired
solicitor, Tony Johnson, and his mother Gene, according to the
U.K.’s Daily Mail newspaper. The earlier history of the vase
isn’t known.  The reluctance of Bainbridges’ Chinese buyer to settle the
record-breaking bill has led other auction houses to ask for
deposits on high-value works at Asian art sales.  Paris-based Asian-art specialist Pierre Ansas required
clients to leave a 200,000 euro ($265,000) deposit to bid on a
Qianlong-period Imperial scroll painting and seal offered at
auctions in Toulouse,  France , on March 26.  Unpaid Seal  The scroll was bid to a record 22.1 million euros and the
seal to 12.4 million euros, both by Chinese clients. While the
invoice for the scroll was settled within three months, only 2.2
million euros has so far been paid for the seal, Ansas said in a
telephone interview.  “The buyer has until Jan. 10 to pay the rest,” said
Ansas. ”Otherwise we will re-offer the seal in March. The
valuation will be lower then -- maybe 5 or 6 million euros --
and the owners will sue for the difference between the prices.”
In the event of the first buyer defaulting, the partial payment
of 2.2 million euros will not be returned, said Ansas.  The successful bidder in Toulouse was a Hong Kong dealer
representing a Chinese collector.  “He said he couldn’t pay because his client has lost a lot
of money in  China ,” said Ansas. “The economy isn’t so good
now. It’s a tough situation and I don’t see how we’re going to
solve these non-payment problems. The market has been very
speculative.”  Up-Front Payments  U.K. regional auctioneers Woolley & Wallis and Duke’s also
ask for up-front payments on ”premium” Asian lots.  “Getting paid is a continuing issue for all auctioneers
and dealers,” John Axford, head of Asian art at Salisbury-based
 Woolley & Wallis , said in an interview. ”We’re reviewing our
policy on deposits. The administration can be very difficult.”  The difficulties of dealing with Asian clients are summed
up by an anonymous poem currently circulating in the trade:  The Chinese bid with verve and skill,  And hence rack up a mighty bill.  “The money’s coming soon” they cry  But oh, my friend, they lie, they lie.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 