-- 
Maryland Authority to Sell $102 Million in Bonds to End Swaps

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-12-13T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/maryland-authority-to-sell-102-million-in-bonds-to-end-swaps.html
The  Maryland Stadium Authority ,
which operates venues for the Baltimore Ravens football team and
baseball’s Orioles, plans to sell $102 million in fixed-rate
bonds as soon as today to terminate two swaps and buy back
variable-rate debt.  The proceeds will refund about $82 million of bonds and pay
the cost of terminating two related interest-rate swaps,
according to the preliminary official statement. Variable-rate
debt allows bondholders to sell securities before maturity on a
weekly basis, said Michael Frenz, the authority’s executive
director.  Barclays Capital  will lead the sale.  Dexia SA  serves as a liquidity provider, meaning it is the
buyer of last resort on the authority’s variable-rate bonds that
investors don’t want. Dexia is charging the authority 45 basis
points every year on all outstanding bonds, up from 8.25 basis
points three years ago, Frenz said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The real risk was potentially paying a couple hundred
thousand dollars more in interest charges each month,” Frenz
said. “This really was the perfect time to issue in terms of
 interest rates  and the termination fee on the swaps.”  Dexia, a bank based in Paris and Brussels, is being broken
up after running out of short-term funding. Once the world’s
largest municipal lender, Dexia was rescued by the governments
of Belgium, France and Luxembourg in October for the second time
in three years.  Saving $1 Million  As of Dec. 9, the authority expected savings of $1 million
through 2019, which is the longest maturity date on the bonds,
said David Raith, chief financial officer. Depending on how long
Dexia held onto a bond, the authority paid an interest-rate
premium of 100 to 300 basis points, he said.  The stadium authority entered into swaps agreements with
AIG Financial Products Corp., Raith said.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the new debt AA+, the company’s
second-highest grade, with a stable outlook, citing the
“demonstrated commitment” of the state to pay appropriations-
backed obligations. Maryland’s general-obligation bonds are
rated AAA, S&P’s top level.  The authority may issue the bonds as a single series
taxable at the federal level, according to the preliminary
official statement. It can also issue a second series of debt
that is subject to the alternative minimum tax.  The authority’s bonds are backed by rental payments from
Maryland for leasing the stadiums, Raith said. Designated
lottery proceeds of about $20 million a year fund the debt-
service obligations of larger stadium projects, he said.  The  Maryland  Stadium Authority was created in 1987 to
construct sports facilities. Its responsibilities grew to
include projects such as the $35.2 million student commons at
the  University of Maryland  in 2002 and a $63 million renovation
of Hippodrome Performing Arts Center in 2003. The Ravens play in
M&T Bank Stadium and the Orioles at Oriole Park at Camden Yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  