-- 
Asahi Plans Takeovers in Southeast Asia

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n
-- 
2011-12-13T18:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/asahi-plans-southeast-asia-takeovers-as-japan-brewers-seek-wider-margins.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)  and  Kirin
Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s biggest brewers, plan acquisitions across
 Southeast Asia  to access wider margins in a market of more than
half a billion people as demand at home weakens.  “We are looking at Indonesia, Vietnam,  Thailand , the
 Philippines  and Malaysia,” Asahi President Naoki Izumiya, 63,
said in a Dec. 12 interview in  Tokyo . Kirin will “consider
corporate tie-ups and small-scale mergers and acquisitions in
Southeast Asia,” Chief Executive Officer Senji Miyake said in
an interview yesterday.  The brewers’ push into the region will give them access to
markets where some rivals’ operating margins are more than
double that of both Asahi and Kirin’s, as Japan’s aging
population crimps demand in their home market. Asahi has spent
more on acquisitions this year than any other after domestic
demand for beer  slumped  in  2010  for a 14th straight year and the
yen’s gain boosted Japanese companies’ buying power abroad.  “The Southeast Asian market is not yet dominated by one
company so there are opportunities,” said Mikihiko Yamato, an
analyst at JI  Asia , who recommends buying Kirin shares.  Asahi has gained 7.6 percent in Tokyo trading this year,
compared with an 18 percent slide for the broader Topix index.
Kirin has declined 17 percent.  The yen has risen more than 7 percent against the dollar in
the past year, the biggest gainer among 10 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Global Ambitions  Asahi, Japan’s biggest beermaker by volume, made 6.6
percent of sales abroad last year, compared with 23.4 percent
for Kirin, the biggest by market value, according to company
statements. Asahi’s sales from overseas will probably increase
to 10 percent this year, said Takayuki Tanaka, a spokesman for
the Tokyo-based brewer.  “We want to expand our Super Dry brand and sell beer
globally,” Asahi’s Izumiya said. “We can’t just cut costs. We
have to increase our top line as well.”  Carlsberg A/S will produce and sell Asahi’s “Super Dry”
beer in Malaysia, the Japanese brewer said in a statement
yesterday.  Asahi earlier  said  it aimed to boost sales to 2 trillion
yen to 2.5 trillion by 2015, with 20 percent to 30 percent
revenue from overseas. Revenue last year was about 1.5 trillion
yen.  Growing Market  “The Southeast Asian market is twice the size of Oceania,
including  Australia , and they want to move quickly,” said
 Hiroshi Saji , a Tokyo-based analyst for Mizuho Securities Co.
who recommends buying Asahi shares.  The total population of  Indonesia , the Philippines, Vietnam,
Thailand and Malaysia will grow to 553 million in 2016 from 519
million this year, according to  International Monetary Fund 
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The population of Southeast
Asia, including Myanmar and  Singapore , will probably increase 7
percent to about 650 million.  Japan’s will probably contract 1.1 percent to 127 million
in the same period, according to the data.  Beer sales by volume of domestic brewers in the world’s
third-largest economy contracted 3.5 percent to 2.9 million
kiloliters last year and dropped 47 percent in the past decade,
according to the data from the Brewers Association of Japan.  Operating Margins  Asahi’s operating margin of 9.73 percent compares with
26.74 percent for the Philippines’  San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  and
22.47 percent for PT Multi Bintang Indonesia, according to
latest filings compiled by Bloomberg. Kirin has a profit margin
of 6.96 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Malaysia’s
Guinness Anchor Bhd. has an operating margin of 16.27 percent
while  Thai Beverage Pcl. (THBEV) ’s is at 12.14 percent, the data show.  San Miguel Brewery, a unit of the Philippines’ biggest
company by sales that dominates the country’s beer market, is 48
percent owned by Kirin, which has been investing in the
southeast Asian country for at least a decade.  Kirin is also the biggest investor in Singapore beverage
maker Fraser & Neave Ltd. with a stake of about 15 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kirin in 2009 took Lion
Nathan Ltd. private, gaining full control of Australia’s second-
biggest brewer.  Asahi’s biggest acquisition has been its purchase of
Independent Liquor Ltd. of  New Zealand  for NZ$1.5 billion, or
about $1.3 billion when it was announced in August. The company
bought Australian beverages firm P&N Beverages Pty Ltd., New
Zealand’s Charlie’s Group Ltd. and Independent Liquor and
 Malaysia ’s Permanis Sdn. All deals were completed in the second
half of 2011.  Kirin Debt  Asahi has announced more than $3.3 billion worth of
purchases abroad in the past five years, compared with about $14
billion for Kirin, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kirin last month agreed to buy out shareholders in
Brazilian beermaker Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes,
completing its biggest acquisition. The deal valued the
Brazilian company at about $3.6 billion excluding debt, when
combined with the October purchase of a 50.45 percent stake.  While Kirin may continue to make acquisitions, they will
probably be “small-scale” purchases, Miyake said. “The time for
big M&A is over for now and our number one priority is to pay
off our debts.”  The brewer of Kirin Lager plans to expand in  Vietnam 
Thailand and Indonesia, he said.  Kirin last month also agreed to assume 1.1 billion reais
($597 million) of Schincariol’s debt and estimated 2.1 billion
reais of potential labor, legal and tax liabilities as part of
the deal. It has about $1.9 billion of bonds and loans due in
the next decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s debt-to-equity ratio jumped to 1.1 times from
0.5 times after the purchase of Schincariol, Miyake said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  