-- 
Austria Tells Volksbanken to Restructure Soon, Sees No State Aid

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-12-13T10:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/austria-tells-volksbanken-to-restructure-soon-sees-no-state-aid.html
Austria’s FMA banking regulator said
it expects  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , a lender that failed
stress tests, to execute its restructuring plans in the next few
weeks without resorting to a second helping of state aid.  Regulators are most eager to see Volksbanken complete the
sale of most of its eastern European business to  Russia ’s  OAO
Sberbank (SBER)  and implement a cross-guarantee arrangement with its
regional cooperative owners, FMA co-chairman Helmut Ettl told
journalists late yesterday.  “Those are the steps we’re expecting immediately,” Ettl
said during a briefing with his co-chairman Kurt Pribil. “We
expect that this is being worked on at full speed, and that
results are being produced as soon as possible.” The measures
are “important steps to reduce the systemic relevance” of
Volksbanken, he added.  Volksbanken was among eight banks that failed the European
Banking Authority’s stress tests in July. The EBA said on Dec. 9
that the lender had a capital shortfall of 1.05 billion euros
($1.38 billion). The EBA said that the loss was “pro-forma” as
Volksbanken’s restructuring will make the bank too small to be
among those lenders tested in June 2012.  The bank is on track for a loss exceeding 825 million euros
this year due to writedowns and bad loans. That comes after a
55.4 million-euro profit in 2010 and a 1.1 billion-euro loss in
2009, the year in which the bank received 1 billion euros in
state aid.  Bolster Capital  Volksbanken is 61 percent owned by 62 cooperative banks.
Under the restructuring plan, modeled on Dutch cooperative
lender Rabobank Groep NV, Volksbanken and its owners would
promise unlimited guarantees on their liabilities. The plan
would bolster Volksbanken’s capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, because it would allow it to consolidate the
capital of its owners.  While Volksbanken won’t make a profit on the asset sale to
Sberbank, the deal will still help its capital ratio by reducing
the lender’s risk-weighted assets.  German cooperative lender  DZ Bank  owns 23.4 percent of
Volksbanken, a Munich Re unit owns 9.4 percent, and Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG owns 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  