-- 
Australian Business Confidence Unchanged as EU Woes Offset Rates

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-13T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/australian-business-confidence-unchanged-as-eu-woes-offset-rates.html
Australian  business confidence  was
unchanged in November as  Europe ’s deepening sovereign-debt
crisis offset the  Reserve Bank ’s first interest-rate cut in 31
months, a private survey showed.  The  confidence index  was 2 last month, the same as in
October, according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of
about 550 companies from Nov. 21-25 that was released in Sydney
today. The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales
and profits, rose to 1 from zero.  The nation’s central bank reduced the benchmark rate by a
quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6 as
inflation pressures eased and risks to global growth increased.
Australia is headed for its worst annual jobs growth in 15 years
as consumers boosted savings amid concern about potential
fallout from fiscal problems in the U.S. and Europe.  “At the time the monthly survey was taken, the RBA had
lowered the cash rate by 25 basis points, but European debt woes
continued during the month,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster 
said in a statement.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight cash rate
target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing
“considerable turbulence” in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth.”  Traders are betting Stevens will lower borrowing costs
again at the central bank’s next meeting in February, interbank
cash-rate futures show.  Mining Boom  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas. That has spurred the nation’s currency, which reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983.  The world’s fifth most-traded currency has fallen 9.4
percent since its peak on concern Greece would default and
trigger a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Payrolls in Australia gained 44,700 through the first 11
months of this year, on pace for the smallest growth since 1996
after a record 362,300 increase in 2010, government data showed
last week. The report contrasted with figures showing the
biggest six-month gain in economic growth since March 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  