-- 
Banks Cash In On Whitney’s Muni-Default Scare

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-12-13T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/banks-cash-in-on-whitney-s-muni-default-scare.html
Before Meredith Whitney predicted
that municipal defaults in 2011 would total “hundreds of
billions of dollars” in a Dec. 19 broadcast of CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes,” several analysts made similar claims that the market
would collapse.  With less than three weeks left in 2011, their predictions
haven’t materialized. Municipal defaults will total $20 billion
in 2011, according to  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter. That would exceed the
previous high of $8.62 billion in 2009, though fall short of the
$100 billion forecast by Whitney.  Four people who wrote or voiced opinions about the
municipal market in 2011 discussed their comments, why defaults
remained limited to a few municipalities, and what the future
holds for state and local issuers for today’s issue of the
Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  Christopher Whalen  is managing director of  Institutional
Risk Analytics , a Torrance, California-based bank-rating firm.
He said in an interview with  Henry Blodget  on Yahoo Finance’s
Tech Ticker in November 2010 that California would default.  Q: Do you still agree with what you said last year, which
was that  California  will default on its debt?  A: My basic view hasn’t changed, and my comment was really
more of a medium-term issue. In other words, they’re going to
try to raise taxes in California, but they’re not going to get
very far. The whole West is like this. They’re antithetical to
taxes, especially property taxes. The whole point of the comment
was that, eventually, the politicians are going to have to use
the threat of default to move the political process. And I still
think that’s the case. Illinois is arguably worse than
California now, because they haven’t done anything.  Q: What do you predict will happen in the municipal market
going forward?  A: I’m not an end-of-the-world guy. What I do think is
everyone’s premise about revenue and growth has to change. I
could see Illinois default, simply because the politics are not
aligned correctly for people to deal with the issue.  David Skeel, a professor of corporate law at the University
of Pennsylvania Law School, wrote an  article  for The Weekly
Standard in November 2010 titled “Give States a Way to Go
Bankrupt.” They were left out of a Depression-era law that lets
municipalities reorganize their finances under Chapter 9 of the
 bankruptcy code . Skeel wrote that bankruptcy would be the best
option to avoid a “massive federal bailout.”  Q: Do you still agree with what you said last year, which
was that states with financial strains should be able to file
for bankruptcy?  A: The political enthusiasm for the state bankruptcy idea
has temporarily dimmed. The problems haven’t gone away. I still
think bankruptcy would significantly improve our ability to deal
with a crisis.  Q: Why have no states defaulted?  A: It has always been quite possible that nobody would get
to the edge of default. One of the arguments against bankruptcy
for states is the downturn is largely cyclical and they’ll
almost certainly muddle through. That may be right, but it
doesn’t seem to be a basis for saying we don’t need to do
anything else. It’s like saying there’s no need to have a fire
department because we haven’t had a fire.  Q: Do you expect bankruptcy as a future possibility for
states?  A: We’re seeing significant bankruptcies in the municipal
context. It’s possible Harrisburg will end up back in bankruptcy
next year. Jefferson County is in bankruptcy now. So the old
argument that significant municipalities don’t file for
bankruptcy isn’t true anymore. If significant municipalities are
finding themselves in bankruptcy, it’s certainly not out of the
question it would be an issue for the states.  Richard Bookstaber is a senior policy adviser at the
Securities and Exchange Commission. On April 4, 2010, he wrote
on his blog, rick.bookstaber.com, an  entry  titled “The
Municipal Market,” which he called the next crisis. “Once a
few municipalities default, there is a risk of a widespread
cascade,” he wrote.  Bookstaber said via e-mail: “I can’t speak with the press
because of my government positions. Also, I have not kept
abreast of the muni market.”  Frederick Sheehan  is the author of “Panderer to Power: The
Untold Story of How  Alan Greenspan  Enriched  Wall Street  and Left
a Legacy of Recession.” He wrote a piece for the welling@weeden
newsletter called “Dark Vision: The Coming Collapse Of The
Municipal  Bond Market ” in September 2009. In it, he said: “The
municipal market will probably repeat the pattern of the sub-
prime collapse. Although it is plain to see, the usual experts
do not notice.”  Q: You said two years ago that the municipal market would
collapse. Why haven’t there been more defaults?  A: There are some real problems that are going to lead to a
lot more defaults. Incomes are falling in the country, so taxes
are going to continue to fall in municipalities. Even through
there’s talk about reducing costs and cutting back, they’re
continually short of where they’re going to need to be with
reduced revenues.  Q: How widespread do you predict these municipal defaults
will be?  A: There will be a lot of trouble, and a lot of defaults. I
think it will be, in the end, at least a couple hundred billion
dollars in general obligation bonds.  Q: When do you expect all these defaults to happen?  A: Defaults will come within two or three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  