-- 
Baxter Agrees to Buy Surgical-Products Maker Synovis for $325 Million

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-12-13T21:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/baxter-agrees-to-buy-surgical-products-maker-synovis-for-325-million.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , the maker
of blood products and intravenous drugs, said it will buy
 Synovis (SYNO)  Life Technologies Inc. for $325 million to acquire its
line of soft-tissue repair products.  Synovis shareholders will get $28 a share in the deal,
Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter said in a statement today. That
represents a 52 percent premium over yesterday’s closing stock
price for  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Synovis. The acquisition is
valued at $260 million after adjusting for the target company’s
net cash, Baxter said.  Synovis, which had $68.6 million in sales last year, makes
devices and biological products used in obesity surgery, hernia
repairs and cardiac procedures. The acquisition will expand
Baxter’s regenerative medicine and biosurgery business, the
companies said in the statement.  “Baxter is continuing to broaden its offerings with these
tuck-in acquisitions,” said Michael Matson, an analyst with
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “It seems to fit well
with their regenerative medicine business, extending into the
soft tissue area. It’s a small company, kind of a niche player,
and it does makes sense.”  Baxter fell less than 1 percent to $49.30 at 4:10 p.m. in
New York. The shares have fallen 2.1 percent in the 12 months.
Synovis surged 51 percent to $27.78.  The deal is expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 2012 and will reduce full-year earnings for Baxter next year
by about 4 cents a share, the companies said. The purchase
probably will have no effect on 2013 earnings and be
“increasingly accretive” after that, they said.  “It’s not going to move the needle in the near term, but
these are big markets and could add meaningful revenue years
down the road,” Matson said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
trade off: short-term dilution for longer-term growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Fay Cortez at   mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  