-- 
Benhamou Aid to U.S. Prosecutors Should Mean No Jail Time, Lawyer Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-13T23:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/benhamou-aid-to-u-s-prosecutors-should-mean-no-jail-time-lawyer-says.html
Yves Benhamou, a French doctor who
passed information on drug trials to FrontPoint Partners LLC
fund manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, deserves to be
sentenced to time served for aiding the U.S., his lawyer said.  Benhamou, 51, pleaded guilty in April to conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud , securities fraud and obstruction for
passing tips that  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) ’s hepatitis C drug
trials were being halted.  Benhamou said in papers filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan  that he should be rewarded for providing “substantial
assistance” to the government’s investigation of  insider
trading . He spent 24 days in jail after his arrest in November
2010, and more than nine months under highly restrictive home
detention after being released on bond, according to his filing.  “We request that the court sentence Dr. Benhamou to time
served,” his lawyer, David Zornow, wrote in court papers. “We
submit that the requested sentence is appropriate because Dr.
Benhamou has been punished already.”  Benhamou faces from 108 to 135 months in prison, according
to a pre-sentencing report prepared for U.S. District Judge
George Daniels on the basis of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines.
The guidelines are only recommendations. He is scheduled for
sentencing on Dec. 21.  Zornow argued that the report’s calculation “is so
disproportionate to Dr. Benhamou’s conduct that a non-guidelines
sentence is warranted.”  Skowron, a Yale University-educated physician from
Greenwich,  Connecticut , who pleaded guilty in August, was
sentenced last month to five years in prison. He admitted that
after Benhamou passed him the non-public information, FrontPoint
sold its stock, avoiding $30 million in losses, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 11-CR-336, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  