-- 
BHP Sells Stake in South Africa Coal to Black Investors Led by ex-MTN CEO

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-12-13T12:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/bhp-sells-stake-in-south-africa-coal-to-black-investors-led-by-ex-mtn-ceo.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said it will provide funding to assist a
group of black investors led by Pembani Group (Pty) Ltd. to buy
a stake in its South African energy coal unit.  The company declined to comment on the value of the
transaction, which will see 8 percent of shares in BHP Billiton
Energy Coal  South Africa , known as Becsa, transferred to the
black-owned group. Pembani, formerly known as Worldwide African
Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd., is chaired by Phuthuma Nhleko, a
former chief of MTN Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest mobile-network
company, and a current director of BP Plc.  The company will provide a loan “broadly on commercial
terms” to Pembani to finance the purchase, Kesagee Nayager, a
spokeswoman for BHP, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“It is expected that Pembani will service their loan commitment
from the normal dividends paid by Becsa to its shareholders.”  South African mine operators must have 26 percent black
ownership by 2014 to redistribute wealth to those disadvantaged
under apartheid. Operators’ mining rights can be withdrawn
should they not meet the requirements. The governing  African
National Congress ’s Youth League is calling for nationalization
of mines because the pace of change is too slow.  Becsa, the country’s second-biggest exporter of thermal
coal, is “now in a position of more than meeting the
transformation requirements” of South African law and all its
mining licenses have been converted to meet legal needs, it said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Delmas Colliery  BHP produced about 34 million metric tons of thermal coal
in South Africa in the fiscal year to June 30, of which about 13
million tons were exported, Nayager said.  The coal-mining company also agreed to sell an additional
deposit, with an estimated resource of 300 million tons, to
closely held Kuyasa Mining Ltd. to extend the life of its Delmas
Colliery in the Mpumalanga province in the northeast of the
country. BHP sold the operation to Kuyasa in 2002. Becsa “is
not in a position to comment” on the valuation of the deal,
Nayager said.  Becsa in January said it will sell some of its undeveloped
coal assets to focus on its existing operations.  Pembani owns a 20 percent stake in oil refiner and fuel
retailer Engen Ltd., the South African unit of  Malaysia ’s
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , and bought a 51 percent stake in Imbani
Coal Ltd. from Anglo American Plc in 2006. It’s also converting
debt it is owed by cement maker Afrisam Ltd., South Africa’s
second-largest cement maker, into shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pembani’s company secretary didn’t return
calls from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  