-- 
MBIA Credit-Default Swaps Tumble on Morgan Stanley Settlement

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-12-13T22:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mbia-credit-default-swaps-drop-on-morgan-stanley-settlement.html
The cost to protect debt tied to
 MBIA Inc. (MBI)  fell after it reached a settlement with Morgan Stanley
to terminate credit-default swap contracts that led to billions
of dollars of losses for the bank and to drop a challenge to the
insurer’s restructuring.  Credit-default swaps on the MBIA unit that sold the
guarantees declined 8.6 percentage points to 36.1 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $3.61 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of MBIA’s debt for
five years.  Contracts on Morgan Stanley debt also dropped as the
agreement was announced. That contrasted with a rise in a
benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk after the  Federal
Reserve  took no new actions to lower borrowing costs after its
policy meeting.  “This settlement is good for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , good for MBIA
and good for the markets and our financial system, allowing
firms to move forward and rebuild,” Benjamin Lawsky,  New York 
state’s financial services superintendent, said in a statement
today.  Contracts on Morgan Stanley fell 7.3 basis points to 417.5
basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Cash Payment  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, will make a $1.1 billion
cash payment to Morgan Stanley as part of the settlement,
according to a person familiar with the agreement who asked not
to be named because the amount hasn’t been made public. Morgan
Stanley will take a $1.2 billion loss this quarter related to
the deal, the New York-based bank said today in a statement.
 Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to comment.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 1.8 basis points to a mid-price of 127.3 basis points
at 5:01 p.m. in New York, according to data provider Markit
Group Ltd. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the conclusion of
its meeting today in  Washington  that the  U.S. economy  “has been
expanding moderately, notwithstanding some apparent slowing in
global growth.” The central bank added that the  unemployment
rate  “remains elevated.”  Rate Swaps Widen  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has decreased
from 146 on Nov. 25 as traders bet European leaders will prevent
the region’s crisis from tainting bank balance sheets globally.
Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Interest-rate swap spreads, a measure of stress in credit
markets, widened for a third day. The difference between the
two-year swap rate and the comparable-maturity Treasury note
yield expanded 0.15 basis point to 46.09 basis points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure increases when
investors favor the perceived safety of  government bonds .  Near-term refinancing risk for global high-yield issuers is
moderate, as less than 30 percent of the $350 billion in junk
debt matures in the next two years, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. While risks are benign for the U.S., the
region has the highest number of CCC or lower rated debt coming
due in the next four years.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower
than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  