-- 
Brazil May Sell First Dim Sum Bonds to Establish Benchmark, Official Says

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-12-13T20:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/brazil-may-sell-dim-sum-bonds-to-establish-corporate-benchmark-valle-says.html
Brazil may sell yuan-denominated
bonds for the first time to establish a benchmark that would
help companies issue debt in the Chinese market, Deputy Treasury
Secretary  Paulo Valle  said.  “Just to raise money is not our proposal,” Valle said in
an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “But if it will help to
open the market for the corporate bonds, maybe we can.”  Sales of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong, or so-called
Dim Sum bonds, have jumped to 148 billion yuan ($23.2 billion)
this year from 35.7 billion yuan last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  America Movil SAB, the wireless carrier controlled by
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , is looking to become the first
Latin American company to sell Dim Sum bonds after meeting
investors in  Singapore  and Hong Kong last week. The company will
wait until next year to sell the bonds, a person familiar with
the matter said.  Valle said the government will extend its push to cut
floating-rate debt in the local market next year.  Brazil  will
reduce the floating-rate bonds to less than 30 percent of its
total domestic debt in 2012 from a “little bit above” 30
percent this year, Valle said.  “We expect our strategy for next year is to continue
replacing floating-rate debt with fixed-rate bonds or inflation-
linked bonds,” said Valle, who joined Aldo Mendes, the central
bank’s monetary policy director, in a delegation to promote
investment opportunities in the Latin American nation.  Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said Dec. 7 that Brazil
hasn’t ruled out selling bonds overseas this year. The currency
of any such sale hasn’t been determined and the timing will
depend on market conditions, Augustin said.  Brazil’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2019 yield 2.97
percent, down from 3.07 percent a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  