-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Yields Rise on European Debt Optimism as Real Weakens

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-12-13T20:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/brazil-rate-futures-yields-rise-on-european-debt-optimism-as-real-advances.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose after  Spain  sold more bonds than
expected, spurring bets that stability in Europe may prompt the
central bank to slow its pace of interest-rate cuts.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.87
percent. The real fell for a second day, losing 1.1 percent to
close at 1.8638 per dollar. It earlier touched 1.8692, the
weakest level since Nov. 28.  Rate-futures yields rose after Spain sold debt at lower
costs than it did last month and German investor confidence
unexpectedly increased, signaling European leaders may succeed
in containing the debt crisis that is weakening global economic
growth. The events fueled speculation Brazilian central bank
President Alexandre Tombini will slow the pace of rate cuts,
said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco West LB.  “The possibility of a recovery of the external market
reinforces bets that the central bank will avoid an acceleration
of rate cuts,” Rostagno said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “The scenario abroad is a little optimistic.”  Brazil ’s central bank last month trimmed rates for a third
straight meeting, to 11 percent, to shield Brazil from the
European debt crisis.  Traders are wagering the central bank will reduce the
benchmark rate by about 125 basis points by April, futures
trading shows.  Brazil’s retail sales were unchanged in October from
September, the national statistics agency said today, trailing a
forecast for 0.2 percent growth among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 4.3 percent in October from a year ago,
the agency said. Optimism about  Europe  overshadowed retail
figures that showed a slump in consumer demand, Rostagno said.  The data “showed an accommodation in consumption,” he
said. “The number was not very good, but it wasn’t a big
surprise,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  