-- 
Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania Debt Outlooks Are Cut by Fitch

-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 
2011-12-13T16:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/bulgaria-czech-republic-latvia-lithuania-debt-outlooks-are-cut-by-fitch.html
Fitch Ratings  revised down its
credit outlooks for Bulgaria, Latvia,  Lithuania  and the  Czech
Republic  to stable from positive as  Europe ’s economic-growth
prospects deteriorate amid a sovereign debt crisis.  “Strong economic and financial linkages mean that
countries in central and eastern Europe are being adversely
affected by downward revisions to economic-growth prospects and
heightened financial stress in the eurozone,”  Ed Parker ,
Managing Director in the EMEA Sovereign group at Fitch in
 London , said today in a statement.  Eastern Europe’s export-led recovery from its worst slump
since the end of communism is in jeopardy from the threat of a
new recession in the U.S. and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
The region depends on export demand from euro-area nations to
drive its growth and about three-quarters of its banks are owned
by foreign, mainly west European lenders.  Economic growth in the 12 former communist countries that
are now part of the 27-member European Union will reach 3
percent this year, according to a World Bank report published
Nov. 16.  “Weaker GDP growth will make it more challenging for CEE
countries to reduce budget deficits, while heightened risk
aversion may make it more expensive to issue debt in external
markets,” Fitch said in its statement today. “Bond yields and
credit-default swaps in CEE markets have risen significantly in
the second half. This re-pricing of risk highlights how CEE
countries are exposed to the deepening of the eurozone
sovereign-debt crisis, in light of the strong economic and
financial links with the region.”  Regional Assessments  Fitch affirmed Bulgaria’s and Latvia’s BBB- rating, the
lowest investment grade, Lithuania’s BBB score, which is one
notch above Bulgaria and Latvia, and the Czech Republic’s A+
assessment, the fifth-highest investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s said on Dec. 5 that the worsening asset
quality at the eastern European units of Austrian banks may
force the Alpine republic to inject aid into the lenders.  Austrian banks, including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , have lent $266 billion to
borrowers in the formerly communist parts of Europe, the most of
all countries reporting to the Bank for International
Settlements and equivalent to about 70 percent of Austria’s
gross domestic product. Those numbers don’t include the
investments of Vienna-based UniCredit Bank Austria, which are
attributed to  Italy .  ‘Positive Rating Actions’  “An improvement in the European macroeconomic and
financial environment could allow underlying country-specific
factors to come back to the fore and lead to a resumption of
positive rating actions,” Fitch said today. “However,
a material intensification of financial stress and a severe
recession in the eurozone could lead to negative rating actions.
Ratings will also be driven by country-specific factors.”  Standard & Poor’s  earlier today affirmed its long-term
rating for the Adriatic sea nation of Montenegro at ‘BB’ and
said the outlook remains negative to reflect the likelihood of a
downgrade “if Montenegro has difficulty in meeting its 2012
external financing requirement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 Acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  