-- 
HTC Files Complaint Against Citigroup Staffer as Stock Drop Follows Report

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-12-13T07:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/htc-files-complaint-in-taiwan-against-citigroup-global-markets-employee.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the biggest seller of
smartphones in the U.S., filed a complaint in  Taiwan  against a
Citigroup Inc. employee after the broker downgraded its
recommendation on the company, preceding a 59 percent drop in
the handset maker’s shares.  “HTC submitted the case in August against a person at
Citigroup Global Markets” in relationship to alleged violations
of the Securities and Exchange Act, Huang Mou-hsin, deputy chief
prosecutor at the Taipei District Prosecutors Office, said by
phone today. He declined to identify the person and said
investigations are continuing. Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, declined to comment.  Citigroup, the best-performing broker covering HTC, on July
7 cut the stock to “sell” from “buy,” citing corporate
governance concerns over its purchase of S3 Graphics Co.,
competition from Samsung Electronics Co. and slowing demand. HTC
last month cut its sales forecast citing competition and
prompting at least six brokers to downgrade the stock.  “Given the matter is being reviewed by the authorities, it
would be inappropriate for us to provide any comments,”
Citibank said in an e-mailed response to queries today. HTC
hasn’t publicly named the Citigroup employee or cited what
information it has concerns over.  HTC Vs Citi  HTC climbed 2.7 percent to close at NT$426 today in Taipei,
stemming its decline to 50 percent this year. The benchmark
 Taiex (TWSE)  index lost 0.8 percent today taking it to a drop of 23
percent for the year.  HTC filed a suit against an analyst at Citigroup, alleging
the person disseminated false information that affected the
handset maker’s share price, the Taipei-based Commercial Times
 reported  today, without saying where it got the information.  The handset maker’s close relationship with operators, and
customers delaying purchases of Apple Inc.’s latest iPhone,
helped HTC become the leading seller of smartphones in the U.S.
last quarter, according to researcher Strategy Analytics Inc.  HTC shares have dropped 59 percent since July 6, the day
before Citigroup Taipei-based analysts  Kevin Chang  and Jonathan
Gu published a report outlining their downgrade and cut their 12
month price target by 37 percent.  They revised their recommendation to “hold” in September,
after the stock had dropped more than 30 percent, and then again
rated it "sell" on Nov. 23.  100% Return  Investors who followed Citigroup’s recommendations on HTC
would have netted a 100 percent return on the stock over the
past year, ahead of a 64 percent return on calls made by HSBC
Holdings Plc analysts, according to Bloomberg data. Seven
brokers now advise investors to sell the stock compared with
five who say “buy” and 24 “hold” recommendations.  HTC’s $300 million acquisition of 3S Graphics, announced
July 6, “will almost certainly raise concerns given the
potential conflict of interest” because its Chairwoman Cher
Wang is also a significant shareholder in the target company,
the Citigroup analysts wrote then.  Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung disagreed in a July 7
interview, saying the deal is transparent and the valuation was
independently assessed.  Competition from Samsung may also hurt HTC because the
Seoul-based company’s Galaxy handsets are outperforming HTC’s
Sensation in benchmark tests conducted by professional Websites,
the analysts wrote.  Spreading Rumors  On June 29, HTC filed a statement to the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange  over a Bloomberg News report citing a Deutsche Bank AG
sales note that said there’s market speculation the company may
not meet its second-quarter shipment guidance.  “If we find that someone is trying to spread rumors or
false information with the intent to influence our stock price,
we will take necessary legal actions to protect the rights of
our shareholders and ourselves,” HTC  said  in the filing.  HTC on Nov. 23 cut its fourth-quarter sales guidance by
about 20 percent, less than a month after forecasting revenue
may climb to a record, citing competition and the global
economy. That move prompted at least six brokers including Citi
and Credit Suisse Group AG to cut their ratings on the stock.  “We think HTC’s product offering is no longer ahead of its
global peers, which is leading to muted shipments growth and
market share decline in coming quarters,” KGI Securities Co.
Taipei-based analyst Richard Ko wrote the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net .
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ; 