-- 
California’s Revenue Shortfall Will Force Brown to Seek $1 Billion of Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-12-13T22:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/california-s-revenue-shortfall-will-force-brown-to-seek-1-billion-of-cuts.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  will
cut $1 billion in spending from the current budget, saying the
economy won’t produce revenue he built into the plan in June,
triggering automatic reductions.  Brown said he’ll  eliminate  a $258 million busing subsidy,
take $230 million from aid to public universities, trim $200
million in programs that help the elderly and disabled, and make
smaller cuts in child care, library and prison spending. Public
schools will lose $79.6 million, the equivalent of a half day of
classes.  “These cuts to the universities, in-home supportive
services, to schools, to prosecution -- they’re not good,”
Brown said at a press conference in  Sacramento . “This is not
how we want to run California.”  Brown and Democrats in the Legislature inserted the
automatic spending cuts into the $86 billion  budget  they passed
in June, with a provision to trigger the reductions if revenue
failed to reach estimates. They said at the time that the
nascent economic rebound was likely to increase  tax revenue  by
$4 billion more than had been forecast a month earlier.  Brown took action as his finance office predicted revenue
for the fiscal year that ends in June will fall $2.2 billion
below budgeted levels. Most of the reductions will take effect
Jan. 1, with the cuts in school funding effective Feb. 1.  Trigger Cuts  The so-called trigger cuts were developed after Democrats
failed to win Republican support to keep $11 billion of
temporary tax and fee increases from expiring. The automatic
cuts were intended in part to ensure that the state would have
enough cash on hand to repay investors who bought $5.4 billion
of short-term cash-flow notes, which come due in June.  “The alternative is to borrow, obfuscate and delay,”
Brown said. “I don’t want to do that.”  Such mid-year cuts are unpopular with voters, according to
a  Field Poll  released Dec. 5. Sixty-five percent of 1,000
registered voters surveyed Nov. 15-27 said it was a bad idea to
include the trigger provision in the current budget. The poll, a
nonpartisan sampler of opinion in  California , had a margin of
error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  Still, Brown said he’ll pursue a second round of automatic
cuts if voters reject temporary increases in income and sales
taxes in a November ballot measure he proposed. The increases
would bridge a projected $10 billion budget deficit in the
fiscal year that begins in July.  ‘Overinflated’ Revenue  “They overinflated what the revenue would be,” said
Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, a Gerber Republican who’s vice chairman
of the Budget Committee. “It just shows that the gimmicks that
got us into this mess remain.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, has estimated an increase of
$7 billion in annual revenue from his proposal to temporarily
raise taxes on those whose incomes exceed $250,000 a year and to
boost the statewide  sales tax  to 7.75 percent from 7.25 percent.
He’s said he would dedicate the gain to schools and prisons.  While Brown has been forced to take his case for higher
taxes directly to voters, other governors such as  New York ’s
 Andrew Cuomo  and  Connecticut ’s Dannel Malloy have succeeded in
winning higher taxes through their state legislatures.  Brown’s trigger provision contained two tiers of cuts,
depending on how much revenue the state was projected to
collect. The first, tied to a $1 billion shortfall, called for
reduced funding for colleges and universities, as well as
services for the disabled.  School Aid  A projected miss of $2 billion or more would have forced
another $1.54 billion in cuts from school aid, a week’s worth of
expenses, as well as the elimination of the busing subsidy.  State Finance Director Ana Matosantos said eliminating the
busing subsidy wouldn’t automatically mean school districts
would do away with it. Districts will make that decision, she
said.  The Legislative Analyst’s Office last month forecast a $3.7
billion revenue shortfall. The automatic reductions were linked
to the more optimistic of the estimates produced by the LAO and
Brown’s finance department.  The state’s initial budget forecast was “optimistic” and
the subsequent shortfall anticipated by investors, according to
Regina Shafer, who helps manage $5.2 billion of tax-exempt
investments at USAA Investment Management Co. in  San Antonio .  “From our perspective, we want to see budgets balanced
whether by spending cuts or revenue increases,” she said by e-
mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  