-- 
Cameron’s Go-It-Alone on Euro Can’t Cut U.K. Off From EU Decision-Making

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-12-13T12:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/cameron-s-go-it-alone-on-euro-can-t-cut-u-k-off-from-eu-decision-making.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
decision to distance Britain from European efforts to save the
euro isn’t likely to make the U.K. more independent of the bloc.  The difference now is that British diplomats may be
fighting to regain ground lost by Cameron’s decision to go it
alone as they try to influence policies inimical to U.K.
interests. At stake are decisions on the regulation of financial
services, energy, farm subsidies and defense cooperation.  “There’s not a lot of goodwill towards the U.K. at the
moment,” Robin Niblett, director of the Chatham House foreign-
affairs research group in London, said in a telephone interview.
“There will be some bad blood towards British diplomats in the
near term.”  Cameron refused at a Dec. 8-9 summit to back a 27-nation
fiscal pact without ironclad guarantees of a British veto right
over future financial regulations, saying they posed a threat to
London’s standing as Europe’s leading financial center.  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition  Labour Party , said
yesterday the move was a “diplomatic disaster.”  Britain is tightly locked into a system of European
regulation in which decisions taken in Brussels in setting
common standards are also be applied by countries outside the
bloc. That even applies to those that have no intention of
joining, such as Norway and Switzerland, because their economies
are so interlinked with those of EU nations.  The EU is the U.K.’s  largest market , destination for 54
percent of its exports last year even as Britain has stayed
aloof from the single currency.  ‘European Credentials’  British officials have to be “very careful” with the
signals they now send and should take steps to boost their
“European credentials,”  Peter Mandelson , a former Labour U.K.
business secretary and EU trade commissioner, wrote in the
Guardian newspaper. Other European nations have put up with U.K
skepticism in the past because they “genuinely valued Britain’s
membership of the EU,” he said.  “British isolation clearly shows that that country’s
government regards the European Union as a simple free-trade
area,” Joseph Daul, a French member of the European Parliament,
told the assembly during a debate today in Strasbourg,  France .
“It has no consideration for solidarity and responsibility
toward its partners.”  Rebate Questioned  Daul, the floor leader of the European People’s Party in
the 27-nation parliament, said the EU should consider scrapping
a rebate the U.K. receives that limits its contribution to the
bloc’s budget. That amounted to 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion)
in 2010.  “The British check is now up for question,” Daul said.
“Fellow citizens’ tax money should be spent on something other
than compensating selfish nationalism.”  Cameron’s Cabinet met today for the first time since the EU
summit. The prime minister defended his stance in Parliament
yesterday as Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who criticized
Cameron’s Brussels decision as leader of the pro-EU Liberal
Democrats, stayed away from the chamber.  “Clearly, there were differences of opinion but also
there’s a lot of common ground on things like how we push ahead
with the single market and how to address the debt crisis in the
in the  euro zone ,” Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told
reporters in  London  after the Cabinet session. About half of all
ministers spoke during a discussion on Europe that lasted almost
an hour, Field said, without giving details of what was said.  ‘Marked Decline’  A  YouGov Plc opinion poll  for today’s Sun newspaper showed
a “marked decline” in the number of Britons wanting to leave
the EU, with 43 percent of respondents backing a pullout against
36 percent who think the U.K. should stay in. That compares with
52 percent said they would to leave, the polling company’s
president, Peter Kellner, said in an e-mailed statement,
describing it as “the narrowest result that YouGov has detected
in recent times.”  YouGov questioned 1,724 adults on Dec. 11 and yesterday for
the poll, for which it gave no margin of error.  For Graham Mather, president of the European Policy Forum
in London, Cameron’s government had already lost influence in
 Europe . That was the result of a decision he made before coming
to power last year to pull his Conservatives out of the EPP, to
which  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats of  Germany  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s power base belong.  “We have not been brilliant at getting our people in the
commission in areas like the single market or competition,”
Mather said in a telephone interview. “Britain wasn’t in a
strong position to start with.”  Transaction Tax  Financial regulation will dominate the EU’s legislative
program over the next two years, with proposals ranging from
curbs on short selling to a financial-transaction tax. The bloc
also has to implement Basel III banking rules, and Britain has
filed a legal challenge to the  European Central Bank ’s policy on
clearing houses.  British negotiators have struggled to get their way in a
number of areas. The European Commission, the EU’s executive
arm, made proposals in July to apply Basel III that the U.K.,
along with other governments including  Sweden , criticized as not
in line with broader international accords.  George Osborne , the U.K.’s finance minister, has said that
the country’s regulators need discretion to impose higher
capital levels on their banks than they would be granted under
the commission’s plans.  Meanwhile, lawmakers in the EU parliament last month backed
a proposed short-selling law that paves the way for an optional
ban on naked credit-default swaps on sovereign debt.  The U.K. argued that parts of the agreement may be illegal
because they give EU regulators too big a mandate.  ECB Sued  In the courts, the U.K. sued the ECB in October over plans
to block trades in some euro-denominated securities from being
cleared outside of the 17 countries that share the currency. It
was the first such move by a government. The U.K. has also
fought against provisions being included in a draft EU
derivatives law that could encourage relocation of clearing
houses to euro-area nations.  British ministers have also said they intend to veto a
September plan by the EU for a financial-transactions tax that
would take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion euros a
year. The proposal would apply a levy of 0.1 percent on trading
of stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts.  “Politically the U.K. has lost power and credibility, and
its isolation weakens its future position almost certainly,”
Joan Costa i Font, professor of political economy at the  London
School  of Economics, said in response to e-mailed questions.
“There will be will be a lasting effect, as effectively the EU
will operate from now on as an EU of 26 plus the U.K.”  Budget Demands  Cameron has been fighting to trim the EU’s operating
budget, arguing that bureaucrats and lawmakers must tighten
their belts just as citizens in member countries are having to
pay down record deficits. Yet in October, the Commission told
the U.K. to prepare for higher payments to the $170 billion
budget as part of plans to increase spending on research and
energy.  While Cameron was locked in talks in Brussels last week,
the U.K.’s energy secretary  Chris Huhne , was working alongside
his EU counterparts at a climate summit in Durban,  South Africa .
The EU resumes talks early next year about moving to stricter
goals on cutting  carbon emissions .  Europe pledged to adopt a binding post-2012 target in
Durban in exchange for a vow by both industrialized and
developing countries to commit to carbon cuts under a new deal
with “legal force.”  “People used to joke that  Switzerland  was only just
outside the EU and Britain only just in it,” Mather said. “I
don’t think there’s been a big alteration of that position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  