-- 
Canada Third Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-13T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/canada-third-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's national balance sheet account report for the
third quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased 1.0% to $6.5 trillion in
the third quarter, a slower pace than in the second
quarter (+1.3%). On a per capita basis, national net worth
rose to $189,100 in the third quarter, up from $187,900 in
the previous quarter.  Non-financial assets held by Canadians increased $88
billion to $6.8 trillion in the third quarter, which led
the increase in national net worth. However, this rise was
partly offset by the increase in Canada's net foreign
debt, which was up $22.6 billion to $237.0 billion. This
largely reflected a decline in the value of foreign
equities with foreign stock markets weakening by more than
their Canadian counterpart. These losses were moderated by
the upward foreign currency revaluation effect as a result
of the depreciation of the Canadian dollar against major
foreign currencies during the third quarter.  National net worth  Drop in share values reduces household net worth  Household net worth fell by 2.1% in the third quarter,
its second quarterly decline. Although residential real-
estate assets increased, this was more than offset by the
decline in the value of household holdings of equities
(including mutual funds) and pension assets. The Standard
and Poor's / Toronto Stock Exchange composite index fell
over 12% during the quarter. Per capita household net
worth declined to $180,100 in the third quarter from
$184,700 in the second quarter. This marked the sharpest
quarterly reduction in stock prices and per capita
household net worth since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Household sector assets  Household credit market debt expanded in the third
quarter as mortgage debt and  consumer credit  debt
increased to $1 trillion and $448 billion, respectively.
Household sector leverage increased as the ratio of credit
market debt to net worth rose to 25.2% in the third
quarter. The ratio of household credit market debt to
personal disposable income increased to 150.8%, as debt
levels increased while personal disposable income remained
unchanged.  Government net debt up  Overall government net debt (expressed at book value)
increased to $795 billion in the third quarter, compared
with $772 billion in the second quarter. The ratio of
total government net debt to gross domestic product rose
slightly from 46.3% in the second quarter to 46.9% in the
third quarter.  Provincial bonds were the primary contributor to the
increase in total government debt in the third quarter,
augmented by higher levels of federal bonds and short-term
paper.  Private non-financial corporate debt to equity up  Total private non-financial corporation credit market
debt to equity (expressed at book value) edged up to 55.2%
in the third quarter from 54.5% in the second quarter.
While both debt and equity grew during the quarter, the
increase in the ratio reflected bonds and short-term paper
rising at a faster rate than equity.  Corporate debt-to-equity  Value of assets held by financial institutions decreases  Assets of lending institutions and institutional
investors (such as trusteed pension plans and mutual
funds) edged lower in the third quarter. The value of
shares held by institutions decreased sharply in the third
quarter, mirroring losses witnessed on the Canadian stock
exchange. However, this impact was largely offset by the
increase in the value of holdings of federal and
provincial government bonds.  Note to readers  Canadian publicly traded companies have begun their
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards
in the first quarter of 2011. As all companies adopt the
new reporting standards over the next quarters, this will
have an affect on the National balance sheet accounts
(NBSA). For more information on some of these impacts,
consult the article "Impact of new accounting standards on
the Financial and Wealth Accounts."  The NBSA comprise the balance sheets of all sectors of
the economy: the persons and unincorporated business
(households), corporate, government, and non-resident
sectors. They cover all national non-financial assets and
financial claims and their associated liabilities
outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less
what non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is
the sum of the net worth of the persons and unincorporated
business, corporate, and government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises consumer credit,
mortgage, and loan debt of households, non-profit
institutions serving households, and unincorporated
businesses.  Corporate equity is treated as a liability on the
balance sheet of the corporate sector since it represents
a claim by shareholders on the corporate sector. As a
result, as equity prices increase, corporate net worth
will tend to decline, reflecting the increase in the
corporate sector's equity liabilities.  Important changes are coming to  Canada 's System of
National Accounts (CSNA), starting in October 2012. These
changes will affect all users of CSNA products and
statistics such as gross domestic product, balance of
payments, international investment, and input-output
tables. For more information, consult the National
Economic Accounts website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  