-- 
Canada Companies Plan to Hold Steady on Staffing, Manpower Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/canada-companies-plan-to-hold-steady-on-staffing-manpower-says.html
Most Canadian employers plan to
maintain staffing levels in the first quarter of 2012 and expect
the hiring climate to remain moderate, according to a survey by
 Manpower Inc. (MAN)   Canada’s net employment outlook, which subtracts the
percentage of companies planning to cut jobs from the percentage
that say they’ll hire, reached a seasonally adjusted 15 percent,
up from 13 percent three months ago, the survey by the
Milwaukee-based employment-services firm showed. The first-
quarter figure is up two percentage points from the same period
last year.  The data suggest “some gains in employer optimism,”
especially in the manufacturing-durables sector, Byrne Luft,
vice president of operations, staffing services, for Manpower
Canada, said in a statement.  Canada’s labor market posted back-to-back job losses for
the first time since the 2009 recession in November,  Statistics
Canada  reported Dec. 2. Employment fell by a net 18,600 last
month, led by cuts in part-time and service-industry work.  “Despite slight improvement overall, many employers are
evidently taking time to evaluate current market conditions and
demand for their products and services before committing to
additional employees,” said Luft, adding that hiring plans are
most optimistic in Western  Canada .  Sixteen percent of employers that responded to the Manpower
survey said they plan to increase payrolls in the first quarter,
while 10 percent anticipate cutting jobs. Seventy-one percent
plan to maintain staffing levels, and three percent were unsure
of their hiring intentions.  The net employment outlook was most positive in the
manufacturing-durables sector, at 19 percent, up from 17 percent
in the fourth quarter.  The survey of more than 1,900 Canadian employers is
conducted quarterly and has a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  