-- 
Canally, McCarthy Say Fed, Markets Look to January FOMC Meeting

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-12-13T21:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/canally-mccarthy-say-fed-markets-look-to-january-fomc-meeting.html
John Canally, an economist at LPL
Financial Corp., and  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co., said investors are looking to the Federal Open
Market Committee’s January meeting for policy makers to further
develop their communications plans. They spoke after the Fed’s
decision today to keep policy unchanged.  Gerald O’Driscoll, a former Dallas Fed vice president and
now senior fellow at the  Cato Institute  in Washington, and  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , also
commented today.  Canally:  “The market expected some type of move on communication
and that’s what’s missing from this.”  “The biggest disappointment is the fact the Fed did not
extend its promise to keep rates exceptionally low from mid-2013
until the end of 2013. That intensifies the release of the
minutes a lot -- we’ll see what kind of discussion there was
among FOMC members about communications -- and really makes the
January meeting all that more important.”  “The Fed senses its hands are tied politically and yet
needs to make some move to help stimulate the economy, without
buying more securities. They didn’t have enough time to make any
changes. That will be evident when we get the minutes.”  McCarthy:  “It’s as close to the Nov. 2 statement as you can get, so
their thinking hasn’t changed a whole lot and they apparently
have not yet resolved some of the differences that they’ve had
in terms of trying to figure out how they want to change their
communications. They made a big splash between June and
September and now they’re content to sit tight.”  “The only surprise is that there’s so little change. I
thought there might be some change in their efforts to
communicate -- they’ve been telling us that they really want to
do that. That’s something that will have to wait until the end
of January.”  “The economy is limping along. There are still significant
risks and most of them are political. The European politicians
need to get their act together and the same applies to those who
live in  Washington .  “If the politicians don’t screw it up, we’ll be okay.”  O’Driscoll:  “They took cognizance of the fact that there is moderate
improvement in the economy, but not enough to change course.”  Even if unemployment falls next year, “I would be really
surprised if they tightened in any way in 2012 going into an
election because if they miscalculate it could have big
political consequences. So they’re going to stay as
accommodative as they are now.”  The Fed’s decision to push down the fed funds rate to near
zero “hasn’t had much effect. Of course, the housing market is
dragging things down. People are deleveraging. It’s very hard to
induce people to borrow when in fact what they’re trying to do
is deleverage. And of course nonfinancial corporations have a
lot of cash. They don’t need to borrow in many cases.”  “It’s difficult to guess what they’re going to do next. I
would suggest they really are doing QE3: that the swap line with
the  European Central Bank  is a way of injecting liquidity, it’s
just not in the  United States .”  If the Fed announces clearer guidance next month, “it
means -- if you are more explicit and open -- you can be more
clearly wrong, but I think it’s better than confusing the
markets.”  Silvia:  “They have got to be pretty happy right now.”  “The economy is expanding moderately and inflation looks
like it is coming down in line with what they had hoped for.
Evans still is the only dissenter. They are happy with the
program they are on.”  “Any additional stimulus is greatly going to depend on
what happens in  Europe  or any changes in the U.S. outlook.”  “They will wait for a longer meeting, maybe in January, to
come up with anything regarding communications. How specific
they can be is really hard. The Fed doesn’t really control
employment or the  unemployment rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  