-- 
Chile May Keep 5.25% Rate as Europe Crisis Fails to Slow Domestic Demand

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-12-13T13:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/chile-may-keep-5-25-rate-as-europe-crisis-fails-to-slow-domestic-demand.html
Chilean policy makers probably will
keep their  benchmark interest rate  unchanged today as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis fails to damp domestic demand or prevent
inflation from threatening to breach the central bank’s target.  The four-member policy board, led for the first time by new
bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at
5.25 percent for a sixth straight month, according to 16 of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other four forecast a
0.25-point cut.  Europe’s debt crisis and six rate increases in the last 12
months have helped rein in growth and output in  South America ’s
fifth-largest economy, which posted its slowest year-on-year
expansion in 19 months in October. At the same time, rising
inflation, retail sales and employment give little leeway to
ease monetary policy, economist Jorge Selaive said.  “Activity is showing symptoms of fatigue, but on the other
hand demand data still show significant and relevant consumer
dynamics,” Selaive, chief economist at  Banco de Credito &
Inversiones , said by telephone yesterday from Santiago. “The
labor market is very dynamic and we had an inflation surprise.”  After keeping the rate at 5.25 percent today, policy makers
will cut borrowing costs to 5 percent in January and 4.5 percent
by May, according to the median estimate of 62 economists
surveyed Dec. 9 by the central bank.  Regional Response  The central bank raised borrowing costs by 2 full
percentage points in the first half of 2011 before holding the
rate in July. The bank last cut rates in July 2009 -- a year
when  Chile ’s economy contracted for the first time since 1999.  Brazil , which is  Latin America ’s largest economy, reduced
its key  interest rate  50 basis points in each of its last three
meetings to 11 percent, citing a need to mitigate the impact of
a global economic slowdown.  Elsewhere in the region,  Peru ’s central bank last week kept
its benchmark rate unchanged for a seventh month and  Colombia  in
November raised its benchmark rate for the first time since July
on economic growth that could be the fastest in Latin America
next year, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  After posting 5.7 percent year-on-year growth in September,
Chile’s economy expanded 3.4 percent in October, its slowest
pace since the aftermath of the 8.8-magnitude earthquake in
February 2010, while industrial production fell for the first
time since April last year.  Output Gap, ‘Risks’  Economists in the central bank’s Dec. 9 poll cut their 2012
growth forecasts to 4.2 percent from 4.5 percent a month
earlier.  “The reasons that up until now have justified maintaining
the policy rate have been losing strength,” Cesar Guzman, an
economist at Grupo Security, wrote in a report yesterday.
“Outlooks for 2012 have been deteriorating.”  While a central bank survey published Dec. 7 show traders
anticipate a quarter-point cut today, annual inflation
accelerated for a fourth month to 3.9 percent in November, the
highest rate in more than two years. The central bank targets 3
percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  Unemployment unexpectedly fell in the three months through
October to 7.2 percent, while retail sales surged 8.6 percent in
the 10th month of the year, the statistics institute said.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 515.20 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:26 a.m. Santiago time. Chile’s two-year interest-rate swap
rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.33 percent.  The peso has declined 7.8 percent in the past three months,
the steepest drop against the dollar among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The economy is at a level consistent with potential
output so monetary policy should continue to be more or less in
a neutral stance,” central bank Vice President Manuel Marfan
said in a Dec. 5 interview from his offices in Santiago. “But
there are risks, and it all depends on the size of the shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  