-- 
Chile Keeps Benchmark Rate at 5.25% as Inflation Outweighs Europe Crisis

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-12-13T21:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/chile-keeps-key-5-25-rate.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for the sixth straight month
as slowing global growth shows little sign of damping inflation
and demand in the world’s biggest copper producer.  The four-member policy board, led for the first time by new
bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held the overnight rate at 5.25
percent today, matching the forecast of 16 of 20 analysts
 surveyed by Bloomberg . Four expected a 0.25-point cut.  After raising  interest rates  faster than any major economy
behind Belarus in the first half, Banco Central de Chile has
space to stimulate growth if the European debt crisis causes
internal consumption and consumer price gains to slow. Still,
after inflation quickened for the fourth straight month in
November to threaten their annual target, policy makers had
little choice but to keep the rate unchanged.  “There still are some significant inflationary pressures,
and in addition there aren’t clear indications of a major
deceleration in domestic demand,”  Alejandro Puente , an
economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Santiago,
said by phone. “A rate reduction doesn’t seem prudent yet. The
central bank must wait until there’s more evidence that the
international scenario is having a negative impact on Chile.”  ‘Consequences’  Policy makers will lower the rate to 5 percent in their
next meeting and 4.5 percent by May as economic growth slows
from 6.2 percent this year to 4.2 percent in 2012, according to
the median estimate of 61 economists in a Dec. 9 central bank
poll.  “In recent months a more adverse external outlook has
developed, which will probably have consequences for growth and
inflation in Chile, as well as for the orientation of monetary
policy,” policy makers said in a statement accompanying today’s
decision. Local financial market conditions have become
“somewhat more restrictive” as international conditions remain
tight, they wrote.  According to the Dec. 9 survey,  inflation  will slow by 1
percentage point by next November from 3.9 percent last month,
which was the highest rate seen since April 2009. The central
bank targets 3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage
point over two years.  ‘Stubbornly Elevated’ Inflation  “Stubbornly elevated” inflation supported expectations
that the bank would keep its rate on hold this month, Florencia Vazquez, an economist at BNP Paribas, said in a Dec. 7 note e-
mailed to investors.  “Headline inflation has been somewhat higher than expected
because of the incidence of fuels and foodstuffs,” the central
bank said today. “Core inflation figures remain contained.”  After posting year-on-year growth of 5.7 percent in
September, the economy eased to a weaker-than-forecast 3.4
percent expansion in October, the slowest pace since the
aftermath of the February 2010 earthquake that caused $30
billion damage in the $203 billion economy.  “Economic activity has evolved somewhat below
projections,” the central bank said today. “Internal demand
continues to be dynamic.”  Retail sales, which expanded 8.6 percent in October, offset
a drop in industrial output while unemployment in the month
unexpectedly fell to 7.2 percent from 7.4 percent in September.  ‘No Evidence’  “There are signals that there is a deceleration, but we
have no evidence that it has been stronger than what we were
expecting,” Manuel Marfan, the central bank’s vice president,
said in an interview last week. “The economy has all the
signals that it is still in the neighborhood of full employment
and potential output.”  Peru ’s central bank last week also kept its benchmark rate
unchanged after consumer prices climbed faster than estimated.  Elsewhere in the region,  Colombia  in November raised its
benchmark rate for the first time since July on economic growth
that could be the fastest in  Latin America  next year, according
to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil, which is Latin America’s largest economy, reduced
its key interest rate 50 basis points in each of its last three
meetings to 11 percent, citing a need to mitigate the impact of
the global economic slowdown.  Chile’s peso has declined 3.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past month, the second-worst performance among
major Latin American currencies after  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  