-- 
Chinese Distorting Policies Causing Trade Friction, U.S. Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-13T23:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/chinese-distorting-policies-causing-trade-friction-u-s-says.html
China’s trade-distorting actions a
decade after joining the  World Trade Organization  have triggered
clashes with the Obama administration, an assistant U.S. Trade
Representative told a congressional panel.  Restrictions and “interventionist policies” on issues
such as intellectual property rights remain a concern for
American companies operating in China, Claire Reade, the U.S.
trade official in charge of China affairs, said yesterday in
testifying to Congress on a Dec. 12 report.  China discriminates against foreign business in “numerous
sectors” of the economy, according to the report. Continued
government intervention is a “troubling trend,” the U.S. said.  “Trade frictions with China can be traced to China’s
pursuit of industrial policies that rely on trade-distorting
actions to promote or protect China’s state-owned enterprises,”
Reade said at a hearing evaluating  China ’s WTO participation.  The trade office sent its report to Congress as China
marked 10 years since joining the Geneva-based WTO after
agreeing to scrap trade barriers. China has become the world’s
biggest exporter and second-largest importer. Trade in goods
such as clothing, electronics, toys and appliances soared to
almost $3 trillion last year from $510 billion in 2001, with
exports and imports each expanding almost fivefold.  The growth has provided opportunities for U.S. companies,
workers and farmers, according to the report. U.S. exports to
China increased 380 percent since 2001, to $92 billion from $19
billion. Services provided from majority U.S.-invested companies
in China totaled $23 billion in 2009.  Complex Relationship  U.S.-China trade talks this year resulted in progress “on
some meaningful issues, but many issues remain outstanding,”
the report found. The Chinese trend toward state action has led
to a complex relationship between the world’s two biggest
economies and both need to “redouble their efforts going
forward,” according to the U.S. report.  The Obama administration will push China for further
transparency, Reade said. China’s membership in the WTO is an
“important tool” for managing the relationship between the two
countries, she said.  Representative Chris Smith, a New Jersey Republican, said
China failed to keep promises to support workers’ rights and
move toward a market economy as a WTO member, while exports have
surged. U.S. workers can’t compete with Chinese corporations
that benefit from “China’s heinous labor practices,” he said.  ‘Massive Shift’  “The level playing field promised as part of China’s WTO
accession has not arrived,” Smith said at the hearing. “WTO
membership has resulted in a massive shift of jobs and wealth
from the  United States  to China, which has come at a huge cost
to us.”  When political efforts to change China’s policies failed,
the U.S. brought WTO complaints over actions tied to poultry,
steel, industrial raw materials, electronic payment services,
wind power and tire imports.  “Looking ahead, essential work for China includes the need
to reduce market access barriers, uniformly follow the
fundamental principles of non-discrimination and transparency,
fully embrace the rule of law and fully institutionalize market
mechanisms,” the U.S. said in the report.  While China has been revising its legal system to protect
intellectual property rights, little success is reported in
enforcing laws amid widespread counterfeiting, pirating and
other infringement, the report concluded. There are few
deterrents for criminals, the USTR said. Import and distribution
restrictions on legitimate copyrighted products such as
theatrical films have resulted in ensuring that pirated products
dominate the markets, the U.S. wrote.  Yuan Appreciation  The Obama administration has also criticized the pace of
appreciation in the yuan. In October, the  U.S. Senate  passed
legislation designed to punish China for maintaining an
undervalued currency, though it stalled in the  House of
Representatives .  China’s  trade surplus  with the U.S. has helped the country
accumulate a record $3.2 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves
and made it the U.S.’s biggest overseas creditor, contributing
to bilateral friction.  “There’s no indication it will get any better,” Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said during the hearing.
“China’s state-owned sector is growing, further skewing the
playing field in favor of China’s heavily subsidized state-owned
enterprises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  