-- 
China Will Increase Fines, Punishments for Counterfeiters to Deter Piracy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-13T06:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/china-to-increase-fines-for-counterfeiting-to-deter-piracy-1-.html
China , poised to become the world’s
largest market for pirated software, will increase fines and
punishments for counterfeiters to improve deterrence of
offenders.  The nation will impose flexible fines that are multiple the
values of infringed goods, moving away from fixed amounts, Vice
Chinese Commerce Minister Jiang Zengwei said at a briefing in
Beijing today. China will amend its criminal law to make it more
effective in fighting piracy, and improve evidence rules to aid
owners of intellectual property, he said.  The moves build on a pledge by Vice Premier Wang Qishan
last month to improve monitoring of intellectual property rights
in China. The nation is set to become the world’s largest market
for copied software as it isn’t reducing piracy quickly enough,
 Robert Holleyman , chief executive officer of the  Business
Software Alliance , said in October.  “We are working to amend the relevant laws and regulations
to increase punitive measures against law breakers so that they
will bear the corresponding legal responsibility for their
crimes of infringement and counterfeiting,” said Jiang, who is
also office dean of China’s National Leading Group for Combating
IPR Infringement and Counterfeits.  Almost four out of five computer programs used in China are
pirated, according to the annual report of the alliance, a trade
group representing companies in the  software industry , including
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   ‘Greatly Pushed’  The central government has “greatly pushed forward” its
effort to use legal software nationwide, including the adoption
of licensed programs at 135 state departments and some
provincial governments, the State Council said in a statement
distributed before Jiang’s briefing.  The $7.78 billion commercial value of software pirated in
China last year was second only to the $9.52 billion lost in the
U.S., the alliance said. Only 20 percent of software in the U.S.
is pirated, compared with 78 percent in China, according to the
group’s report issued in May.  While the percentage of pirated software in China has
declined, from 79 percent in 2009 and 92 percent in 2003, its
value has increased as the Chinese software market expanded, the
report showed.  Chinese authorities investigated 16,000 cases of
counterfeiting involving 13.12 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) of
goods during the government’s “Sharp Sword” campaign, said the
State Council, China’s cabinet. The campaign, from October 2010
to June 2011, led to prosecution in 2,176 cases, it said.  China will deploy enforcement inspections during the New
Year and Lunar New Year holidays, according to the cabinet
statement.  Websites involved in counterfeiting and infringement will
be “rectified” and companies producing unauthorized
duplications of CDs and DVDs will be “sorted out,” the State
Council said. China will also crack down on the import and
export of counterfeit foods and drugs, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  