-- 
Trailing Gas Demand Signals China Import Boom: Energy Markets

-- B y   R y a n   W o o
-- 
2011-12-13T14:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/china-natural-gas-demand-to-surge-as-cleaner-fuel-prized-energy-markets.html
China ’s ranking as the biggest
energy consumer and the least reliant on natural gas for power
generation among the world’s leading economies is raising the
prospect of an import boom as it seeks to cut pollution.  Demand in  China  may more than triple this decade, with
consumption for electricity generation increasing more than
fourfold, according to the  International Energy Agency . Gas
currently accounts for less than 1 percent of the nation’s power
generation, compared with 23 percent in the U.S., the only
country with a larger economy, and 48 percent in  Russia ,
according to Bloomberg rankings based on World Bank data.  Efforts to cut reliance on coal, which produces about twice
as much pollution as gas, are raising prospects for cleaner-
burning fuels in China, fanning investments in gas-export
terminals from  Canada  to  Australia . China, the world’s fastest-
growing major economy, creates more of the  greenhouse gases 
blamed for global warming than any other nation. It agreed along
with  India  two days ago to negotiate the first-ever limits to
fossil-fuel emissions.  “Gas use in China is really set to take off as they take
environmental benefits into account,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., said in an interview.
“China is well aware that without gas there will be no
sustainable growth.”  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, and ENN
Energy Holdings Ltd. offered HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion) cash
for China Gas Holdings Ltd. to gain control of a distribution
network covering 20 provinces, the companies said today in a
statement. Buying China Gas will give the companies access to
its 6.6 million residential customers and 41,981 industrial and
commercial users in China  Five-Year Plan  China, whose power utilities generate more electricity from
coal than any other country, aims to boost environmental
protection in its five-year plan through 2015 as it seeks to
avoid “blindly” pursuing unsustainable economic growth,
according to Premier  Wen Jiabao . The country wants to cut carbon
dioxide emissions by as much as 17 percent per unit of gross
domestic product during the period, Wen said Feb. 27.  Chinese  GDP  expanded 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, outpacing every other major economy. The
nation’s annual target in the five years ended 2010 was 7.5
percent, a pace it has exceeded every year. The growth target
for the so-called 12th five-year plan is 7 percent.  To meet demand China may purchase about 44 million tons a
year of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, by 2020, according to
Philip Olivier, president of global LNG at Paris-based GDF Suez.
Imports of the fuel, gas chilled to a liquid for shipping, rose
27 percent to 5.2 million tons in the first half of the year.  World’s Biggest Buyer  Spot LNG cargoes for delivery to  Japan , whose prices are a
global benchmark because it’s the world’s biggest buyer,
averaged the highest in 17 months in October, according to
government data. The nation paid an average $797 a metric ton
for non-contract cargoes, up 6.4 percent from a month earlier,
data on the  website  of the Tokyo-based Ministry of Finance show.
That’s about $15.30 per million British thermal units.  “We expect strong growth in Chinese LNG demand next year,
as new terminals start up and expect 20 million tons a year of
new demand over the next five years,” Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said today in an e-mailed report.  Gas  consumption  may surge to the equivalent of 251 million
metric tons of oil by the end of the decade, and to 420 million
tons in 2035, from 78 million tons at the end of 2009, the IEA
said Nov. 9 in its World Energy Outlook. Use of the fuel for
electricity generation in China will quadruple to 72 million
tons by 2020 and 157 million tons by 2035, it said.  Canada may start exporting LNG to Asian consumers as early
as 2015, according to Calgary-based consultant Ziff Energy
Group. Companies including China National Petroleum Corp. are
planning to build the first LNG ports in British Columbia.  Domestic Production  State-controlled Chinese energy companies are also ramping
up domestic production as China lays pipelines to reach users.
Sinopec, as  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  is known, increased
gas output by 22 percent in the first nine months. Cnooc Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest offshore energy explorer, boosted
production of the fuel by 17 percent, while PetroChina Co., the
Hong Kong-listed unit of CNPC, pumped 5.9 percent more gas.  “For gas-fired power generation to really take off in
China, it would require either development of unconventional
sources like shale gas or a policy change to focus on cleaner
power generation,” said  Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-based
senior analyst at Bernstein.  Chinese companies including Sinopec’s parent, China
Petrochemical Corp., are bidding for gas assets in Canada, the
U.S. and Australia to expand reserves and obtain drilling
technology to extract the fuel trapped in shale rock.  Largest Acquisition  China Petrochemical agreed in October to buy Canada’s
Daylight Energy Ltd. for C$2.2 billion ($2.2 billion) to access
shale gas in its largest acquisition this year.  Cnooc (883)  agreed in February to purchase a 33.3 percent stake
in Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado
and  Wyoming  for $570 million, after paying $1.08 billion last
year for one-third of a Chesapeake shale venture in  Texas .  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or
12 times the country’s conventional gas deposits, the U.S.
Energy Information Administration said in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.
China currently doesn’t produce any shale gas commercially.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Woo in Singapore at 
Rwoo5@@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 