-- 
China’s ‘Interventionist Policies’ Remain a Concern, U.S. Says in Report

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-13T03:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/china-s-interventionist-policies-remain-concern-for-companies-u-s-says.html
China ’s trade restrictions and
“interventionist policies” in areas such as intellectual
property rights remain a concern for American companies doing
business in the Asian nation, the U.S. said.  China discriminates against foreign business in “numerous
sectors” of the economy, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office
said yesterday in its annual  report  on Chinese compliance with
World Trade Organization rules. Continued government
intervention in its economy has been a “troubling trend,” the
U.S. said.  “China seems to be embracing state capitalism more
strongly, rather than continuing to move toward the economic
reform goals that originally drove its pursuit of WTO
membership,” the report said.  The USTR report to Congress came a day after China marked
its 10-year anniversary of joining the Geneva-based WTO. In the
past decade, China has become the world’s biggest exporter and
second-largest importer. Trade in goods such as clothing,
electronics, toys and appliances soared to almost $3 trillion
last year from $510 billion in 2001, with both exports and
imports growing almost fivefold.  The growth has provided business opportunities for U.S.
companies, workers, and farmers, according to the report. U.S.
exports to China have increased 380 percent since 2001, to $92
billion from $19 billion. Services provided from majority U.S.-
invested companies in China totaled $23 billion in 2009.  ‘Complex’ Relationship  U.S.-China trade talks this year resulted in progress “on
some meaningful issues, but many issues remain outstanding,”
the report said. The Chinese trend toward state action has led
to a “complex” relationship between the world’s two biggest
economies and both need to “redouble their efforts going
forward,” the U.S. wrote.  When those efforts have failed, the U.S. has brought WTO
complaints against China over actions regarding poultry, steel,
industrial raw materials, electronic payment services, wind
power and tire imports.  “Looking ahead, essential work for China includes the need
to reduce market access barriers, uniformly follow the
fundamental principles of non-discrimination and transparency,
fully embrace the rule of law and fully institutionalize market
mechanisms,” the U.S. wrote.  While China has been revising its legal system to better
protect intellectual property rights, there has been little
success in enforcing laws in the face of widespread
counterfeiting, pirating and other infringement, the report
said. There are few deterrents for criminals, the USTR said.
Import and distribution restrictions on legitimate copyrighted
products such as theatrical films have resulted in ensuring that
pirated products dominate the markets, the U.S. wrote.  Yuan Appreciation  The Obama administration has also criticized the pace of
appreciation in the yuan. In October, the  U.S. Senate  passed
legislation designed to punish China for maintaining an
undervalued currency, though it stalled in the  House of
Representatives .  China’s  trade surplus  with the U.S. has helped the country
accumulate a record $3.2 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves
and made it the U.S.’s biggest overseas creditor, contributing
to bilateral friction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  