-- 
China Stocks Drop to 2-Year Low on Housing Slump, European Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-13T07:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/china-s-stocks-drop-for-fourth-day-on-housing-sales-slump-europe-outlook.html
China’s stocks  fell to their lowest
level in more than two years, after Chinese housing sales
slumped and ratings companies said last week’s European summit
did little to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585) , whose materials are used in
property construction, slid 4.5 percent after Fitch Ratings said
China faces slower growth in home sales and construction next
year. Poly Real Estate Group Co. led declines for developers
after the nation’s biggest real-estate website reported housing
transactions plunged more than 50 percent in 13 cities out of
35.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  retreated the most this month on concern
faltering growth in  Europe  will cut demand for raw materials.  “Europe isn’t out of the woods and that’ll pose a
significant threat to China’s exports going forward,” said Wu Kan, a fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees
$285 million. “Forecasts for corporate earnings may still have
room for cuts as a result of government tightening measures. The
market weakness will persist until the year-end.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 42.96 points, or 1.9
percent, to 2,248.59 at the close, the lowest since March 2009
and capping a four-day, 3.6 percent loss. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell
2.3 percent to 2,421.93. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 2.4 percent in New York yesterday.  The yuan declined to 6.3673 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. A weaker
local currency may lead to a flight of capital from the country
and weigh on asset prices. China’s  interest-rate swaps  climbed
for a second day as the central bank drained cash from the
financial system.  No ‘Decisive Measures’  Stocks in Asia slumped as Moody’s Investors Service said
that last week’s European Union summit failed to produce
“decisive policy measures.” Fitch Ratings said a comprehensive
solution has not yet been offered and predicted a “significant
economic downturn” in the region.  The Shanghai Composite has slipped 3.6 percent this month
as concern about a slowdown in economic growth outweighed the
first cut in lenders’ reserve requirement ratios in three years
by the central bank on Nov. 30. The index has tumbled 20 percent
in 2011, exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, after the
central bank raised interest rates to combat inflation and curb
property-price gains.  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, lost 4.5 percent
to 15.76  yuan . Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of
Holcim Ltd., tumbled 5.1 percent to 12.95 yuan.  Gansu Qilianshan
Cement Group Co. (600720)  slid 4.8 percent to 9.47 yuan.  Lending to developers will remain tightly controlled as the
government prolongs a campaign to stabilize property prices and
some smaller builders are “more vulnerable,” Fitch said in a
report today.  Tax Cuts  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, fell 1.9 percent to 9.58 yuan.  China Vanke Co. (000002) ,
the biggest, lost 1.8 percent to 7.17 yuan.  Chinese housing transactions declined in 27 out of 35
cities tracked by Soufun Holdings Ltd. during the week of Dec.
5-11, according to the operator of the nation’s biggest real-
estate website. Transactions fell more than 60 percent in at
least 4 cities, including Tianjin and Hangzhou, it said.  China  may use tax cuts to shore up expansion in the second-
largest economy next year as export growth weakens and the
threat of bad loans from stimulus spending narrows the
government’s options. The nation’s top officials are mapping out
policies for 2012 at the annual Central Economic Work Conference
in Beijing. The event started yesterday, according to the state-
run Xinhua News Agency.  Economic Growth Outlook  “China is no longer able to rely on massive investment in
infrastructure building to stimulate the economy,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA. “Tax
cuts are unavoidable.”  The nation’s economic growth may “hit its bottom” in the
first and second quarters next year, China Securities Journal
reported, citing  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center. There may be moderate rebound in
the third and fourth quarter and growth may be more than 8
percent next year, it said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
retreated 3.2 percent to 23.34 yuan. Zhuzhou Smelter, China’s
biggest producer of refined zinc, lost 6.5 percent to 9.31 yuan.
 Western Mining Co. (601168) , the nation’s fourth-largest maker of zinc
concentrate, slid 3 percent to 9.70 yuan.  Commodities fell to a two-week low on concern the  European
debt crisis  will spread, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials declining 1.3 percent yesterday.  Zero Export Growth  China, the world’s biggest exporter, may face zero growth
in exports next year as the euro zone enters a recession and the
global economy slows, Wang Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist at
UBS AG, said in an e-mailed note today.  Hugh Hendry’s “China short” fund is up 52 percent this
year so far, compared with an average of 4.4 percent loss for
hedge funds, the Financial Times reported, citing investors. His
larger flagship Eclectica Fund is up 12 percent this year,
according to the report. Hendry is chief investment officer and
co-founder of London-based Eclectica Asset Management.  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132) , in which Carlsberg A/S has a 29.7
percent stake, tumbled by the 10 percent daily cap for a fourth
day to 53.18 yuan. Its final summary report on the clinical
studies of its Hepatitis B vaccine may be released on April 6
next year, the company said in a statement today.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  