-- 
China May Approve Nuclear Projects on Revised Safety Rules

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-12-14T04:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/china-may-resume-approving-nuclear-projects-after-new-draft-safety-rules.html
China , the world’s biggest energy
user, may resume approving new  nuclear  projects after the
cabinet endorses draft safety rules prepared by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and a bunch of nuclear power equipment
makers are set to benefit from such a move.  “Technically, all conditions would be met after the State
Council approves this new safety regulation,” Zhao Chengkun,
vice president of the  China Nuclear Energy Association , said
yesterday by telephone from Beijing. “I think it’s good news
for China’s nuclear industry.”  China suspended new nuclear projects after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant and prompted a global review of atomic energy plants. The
State Council said approvals would be withheld until existing
projects and those under construction are inspected and a
stricter safety regime is in place. China’s major nuclear power
equipment makers, such as  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (2727) ,  Dongfang
Electric Corp. (1072)  and  Harbin Electric Co. (1133) , have seen their long-
term contracts frozen from such a policy.  “The news is a step in the right direction in reigniting
 market sentiment  for China’s commercial nuclear development,”
Guo Shou, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital  said in
a research note yesterday. “A number of projects could be
approved shortly after the restart and new equipment orders
could come shortly after project approvals given the relatively
long lead-time of production.”  Safety Draft  The environmental protection ministry said in a  statement 
on its website Dec. 12 that the new nuclear power safety
regulation is ready and a draft would be submitted to the State
Council after minor adjustments. The regulation outlines rules
and goals for nuclear safety by 2020, the ministry said.  Zhao, whose association served as a consulting body in
framing the legislation, said many of the new safety rules are
tougher than earlier versions. Details of the regulation won’t
be published until the State Council approves the law.  “The central government has its own pace to process the
matter,” said Steven Lau, first deputy general manager of Daya
Bay Nuclear Power Operations and Management Co. “The new safety
standards will be in place for decades to come, so it’s worth
taking a longer time to figure everything out.”  Daya Bay Nuclear Power operates six reactors in Guangdong’s
Daya Bay and hopes to get approval to add two more reactors, Lau
said.  “We’re not in a position to lead or push,” said Liu
Kaixin, Shenzhen-based spokesman at China Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group, the nation’s second-largest reactor operator.
“We’re implementing whatever policy is being directed to us.”  Pan Jianming, Beijing-based spokesman at China National
Nuclear Corp., the country’s largest atomic plant operator,
didn’t answer two calls to his office.  Capacity Goals  The National Energy Administration is drafting a separate
nuclear  power  development plan, which will set goals for atomic
capacity by 2020, Zhao said. New project approvals are unlikely
to be delayed until the targets are decided, he said.  “It’s a 10-year plan,” Zhao said. “If more capacity is
approved in the first few years, we can hold back a bit in the
later years. I don’t think there is a need for everyone to hold
on for that guideline to be completed first.”  China, which started operating its first commercial nuclear
plant in 1994, is building at least 27 reactors and has 50 more
planned, according to the association.  The country aims to install 70 gigawatts of nuclear
capacity by the end of the decade, the National Energy
Administration said last year. Li Yongjiang, another vice
president at the association, told Bloomberg in October that the
goal may be scaled back to between 60 gigawatts and 70 gigawatts.  China will limit the number of reactors to be built on the
coast, the State Oceanic Administration said on April 7. The
country, constructing more reactors than any other nation, has
at least 14 atomic units in operation, according to data from
the  World Nuclear Association .  China’s National Nuclear Safety Administration, a
department of the environmental protection ministry, will
increase the strength of its staff, including inspectors, to
more than 1,000 from about 300. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission has almost 4,000 people overseeing 104 reactors,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  