-- 
Climate Negotiators Face New ‘Ballgame’ After Durban, U.S. Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-12-13T22:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/climate-negotiators-face-new-ballgame-after-durban-u-s-says.html
Negotiators on  climate change  won’t
resume “hard-core” talks for a least a year after this week’s
accord by developing nations to limit fossil-fuel emissions for
the first time, U.S. lead negotiator Todd Stern said.  Countries will need to assess the agreement reached early
Dec. 11 in Durban, South Africa, in which  China ,  India  and
developing nations will draft a document with “legal force” by
2015 to curb pollution for all nations, Stern said today.  The accord ends the split, enshrined in the United Nations-
led climate discussions since 1992, that let poorer nations
escape commitments on burning coal and oil while requiring
industrial nations to cut emissions. President  Barack Obama , and
George W. Bush before him, pushed for equal treatment after the
Senate refused to ratify the  Kyoto Protocol , which limits
 greenhouse gases  for industrial nations.  “I don’t think there’s going to be a hard-core
negotiation” in 2012, Stern said on a conference call with
reporters. “Everything that has transpired up until now in the
world of legal agreements in climate have all been focused just
on developed countries. This is a different ballgame.”  The U.S. suggested the document refer to a “legal
instrument” and backed the compromise, saying it was important
to keep the Durban package on track. Environmental groups said
the language may let nations get out of commitments.  “In the real world of international negotiations on this
exceptionally difficult global commons problem, this is what
success looks like,”  Robert Stavins , director of Harvard
University’s Environmental Economics Program in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, said Dec. 12 on his  blog .  Envoys from more than 190 nations also extended the Kyoto
Protocol, the only ratified treaty limiting greenhouse gases.  “When you think about all sorts of questions, what sort of
mitigation, what sort of transparency, what sort of accounting
systems are you talking about, you’ve got to be thinking about
it in terms that are going to apply more broadly,” Stern said.
“It’s going to be an interesting period” that may “occupy a
portion or even a substantial portion” of the coming year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  