-- 
Columbia Student Klein Is Denied Pretrial Diversion in N.Y. Drug-Sale Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-13T16:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/columbia-student-klein-is-denied-pretrial-diversion-in-n-y-drug-sale-case.html
Adam Klein , one of five Columbia
University students arrested a year ago and accused of selling
drugs on campus, was denied entry into a pretrial diversion
program by a judge in  Manhattan  today.  Judge Michael Sonberg in New York state Supreme Court
denied Klein’s request to enter a diversion program set up in
2009 as part of a reform of the state’s so-called Rockefeller
drug laws. The  program  allows judges to divert some nonviolent
offenders to treatment programs instead of incarceration.  Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey , was one of five students
arrested in December 2010 after a five-month investigation
nicknamed “Operation Ivy League.” Prosecutors said undercover
officers spent $11,000 buying drugs including cocaine,
marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced candy, with most sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  “Obviously we’re disappointed,” said Klein’s attorney,
Alan Abramson. “We think Adam is an ideal candidate for
diversion and the kind of defendant the diversion statute was
created for.”  Sonberg in October also rejected diversion requests from
two of Klein’s co-defendants, Jose Stephan Perez, 21, of Atlanta
and Michael Wymbs, 23, of  New York . Wymbs pleaded guilty to
third-degree attempted criminal possession of a controlled
substance and was sentenced to five years’ probation, and Perez
is scheduled to return to court on Dec. 20.  Guilty Plea  Another of the arrested students, Harrison David, 21, of
Wrentham,  Massachusetts , pleaded guilty on July 19 to selling
cocaine to an undercover officer in exchange for six months in
jail and five years of probation. He began serving his prison
term on Aug. 30.  A judge approved diversion for another arrested student,
Christopher Coles, 21, of Philadelphia, last month. If he
completes the program successfully, the criminal case will be
dropped.  Perez and Klein face sentences of as long as 2 1/2 years if
convicted of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the
fifth degree, the most serious charge against each of them. Both
turned down plea bargains in June that included five years’
probation. Klein is scheduled to return to court Jan. 10.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York state
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  