-- 
Commerzbank Spurs Most German Share Sales Since 2000 Bucking Global Trend

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-12-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/commerzbank-spurs-germany-to-ecm-growth-bucking-global-decline.html
Commerzbank AG ’s 8.26 billion euros
($10.8 billion) of share sales this year propelled equity
capital-market deals by German companies to the highest level
since 2000, defying a worldwide decline. A backlog of initial
public offerings means the trend may extend into 2012.  While the volume of stock, equity-linked and rights
offerings dropped in the U.S.,  Japan ,  China , France and the
U.K., German companies raised 24.3 billion euros this year, up
14 percent from 2010 and the most in more than a decade, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Globally, issuance fell 32 percent.  Europe’s biggest economy is forestalling the worsening debt
crisis as business confidence unexpectedly rose for the first
time in 10 months in December, and industrial production and
retail sales climbed in October.  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s lighting unit
Osram AG and chemical company Evonik Industries AG are clinging
to IPO plans after market turmoil postponed proposed share sales
in the second half of 2011. The DAX Index has dropped 22 percent
since the end of June.  “Germany has a functioning business model and an
industrial know-how,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at
Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt. “Economic data are still
supportive.”  The amount issued on equity markets has dropped by 18
percent this year in Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
according to Bloomberg data. In the U.K., two deals raised more
than 1 billion euros, while in France only one deal exceeded
that threshold.  Most Active  Commerzbank was the most active German issuer, using funds
from three transactions to repay the government for aid received
in 2008 and 2009, according to Bloomberg data. Porsche SE, the
sports-car maker seeking to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , generated
2.5 billion euros in an April share sale, while  Continental AG (CON) ,
Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker, and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,
Germany’s biggest steelmaker, raised more than 1.5 billion each
in March and July.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable
television operator, sold new shares twice for a total of 1.6
billion euros in March and July.  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s second-
biggest utility, announced a 2.1 billion-euro share sale last
week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  helped arrange 24 percent of the
German equity, equity-linked and rights offerings this year,
while  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were underwriters for 16
percent and 10 percent respectively of the total sold, Bloomberg
data show.  Share Sale  Commerzbank has raised the possibility of another share
sale in the coming weeks or months.  The European Banking Authority announced Dec. 8 that the
Frankfurt-based bank must boost its equity base by 5.3 billion
euros to reach a required 9 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio by
mid-2012. Commerzbank, whose offer to buy back 600 million euros
of hybrid instruments was due to end yesterday, said last week
that “the issue of equity capital instruments is also an
option.”  A capital increase of at least 600 million euros is likely
in the next few weeks, said Matthias Duerr, an analyst at  DZ
Bank , on Dec. 5.  GSW Immobilien AG raised 407 million euros, the largest IPO
of 15 in  Germany  this year. The total 1.69 billion euros
gathered by German companies from IPOs represents about 7
percent of all proceeds from equity capital-market deals.  ‘Credible Path’  “New issue activity in 2012 will be very much a function
of a supportive market environment, requiring a credible path
for a solution of the sovereign-debt crisis and encouraging
macro data,” Philip Grosse, head of  equity capital markets  for
Germany and Austria at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a Dec. 7
interview. “In such a scenario, we do see a significant
pipeline of IPOs as well as merger- and acquisition-driven
refinancings and opportunistic monetizations.”  The list of potential German IPOs that may fetch more than
1 billion euros next year includes Evonik, Osram and Talanx AG,
Germany’s third-biggest insurer.  An IPO for Osram, which had about 400 million euros of
operating profit in the year ended Sept. 30 on sales of about 5
billion euros, remains the preferred option, Siemens finance
chief Joe Kaeser said Nov. 10. The company said Nov. 30 that it
aims to conclude the share sale during this fiscal year.  Evonik and owners RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners
ruled out an IPO of the chemical maker this year. The company is
prepared to restart the share sale process if stock markets
improve, Essen, Germany-based RAG Stiftung said on Sept. 23.  IPO Backlog  “There is a substantial backlog of significant IPOs that
are likely to materialize in a more supportive market
environment,” Grosse said.  The benchmark DAX entered a  bear market  in August, falling
more than 20 percent from its high in May, amid concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will derail economic growth. Strategists at Deutsche
Bank expect the DAX to end 2012 at 6,600 after a weak start.
That would be up 14 percent from yesterday’s closing price.  While the German economy has proven resilient, there are
signs of weakness. Exports, which make up about 40 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product, fell more than economists
forecast in October, and the government failed to get bids last
month for 35 percent of 10-year bonds sold at an auction.  The Bundesbank cut its 2012 growth forecast for Germany
last month to between 0.5 percent and 1 percent from a June
prediction of 1.8 percent, and said a “pronounced” period of
economic weakness can’t be ruled out if the debt crisis worsens.
German growth may slow to 0.8 percent in 2012 from 2.9 percent
this year, the European Commission said on Nov. 10.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 5 that Germany may be stripped
of the AAA credit rating it has held since 1983. The nation,
along with AAA-rated  France , the Netherlands, Austria, Finland
and Luxembourg, were among 15 countries sharing the common
currency that were put on review for possible downgrades.  Moody’s Investors Service also is reviewing the sovereign
ratings of European countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  