-- 
Commerzbank Said to Cancel Christmas Parties as German Lender Cuts Costs

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-12-13T18:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/commerzbank-said-to-cancel-christmas-parties-as-german-lender-cuts-costs.html
Commerzbank AG ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest lender, canceled annual Christmas parties for investment
bankers and other employees as part of its efforts to cut costs,
three people with knowledge of the situation said.  The bank, based in Frankfurt, announced the cancellation
about three weeks ago, saying such a holiday event wouldn’t be
appropriate in the current market environment, the people said,
declining to be identified because the information isn’t public.  The company also told its mid- to upper-level employees, or
non-tariff workers, there would be no raises for 2012 and the
investment  bank  has frozen hiring for businesses not generating
revenue, said two of the people. Commerzbank’s investment-
banking unit has traditionally held Christmas parties each year,
including in 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., two of the people said.  Commerzbank spokesman Armin Guhl said “accelerated cost
management” is one of the measures being used to reach the
higher  capital requirements , including the revision of all
external consulting services and purchased services. He declined
to comment on other specific moves such as the party
cancellation.  Commerzbank, which needed a government bailout after the
credit crunch in 2008, must raise 5.3 billion euros ($6.9
billion) in capital by mid-2012 after marking down the value of
its sovereign debt in a European  stress test . The lender is
trying to lower costs, shed assets, sell businesses and retain
earnings to reach capital requirements without tapping public
funds.  RBS Party  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , 48, who spent the
last three years trying to free the bank from more than 18
billion euros in government aid, has pledged to avoid taking
state funds. Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  said on Dec. 8
that “we stand by our intention not to make use of additional
public funds.”  The firm offered to repurchase 600 million euros of hybrid
instruments on Dec. 5 as it boosts capital.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  also canceled Christmas
parties for its investment bankers this year as the government-
owned lender tries to reduce costs. The bank will stop
subsidizing holiday events and has banned staff entertainment
for the rest of the year, Chris Kyle, chief financial officer of
RBS’s investment bank, wrote in an e-mail to employees obtained
by Bloomberg News on Oct. 14.  Commerzbank has fallen 74 percent this year in  Frankfurt 
trading, the worst performance in the country’s benchmark DAX
index. The gauge for German equities has dropped almost 17
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  