-- 
Commerzbank’s Eurohypo Unit Ordered to Pay Profit Certificate Owners

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-12-13T12:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/commerzbank-s-eurohypo-ordered-to-pay-interest-on-profit-certificates.html
Commerzbank AG ’s Eurohypo must pay
interest to holders of profit certificates, a German appeals
court ruled in a case brought by private-equity firm Crown  Ocean
Capital Ltd. (OCE)   The  Frankfurt  Higher Regional Court today overturned a
lower court ruling from last year that Eurohypo, Commerzbank’s
real estate arm, could stop payments for 2009 after recording a
loss. The certificates were originally issued by Rheinhyp AG,
which later became part of Eurohypo.  QVT Financial LP, a New York hedge fund, won a ruling in
Frankfurt earlier this year over the issue in a separate suit.
QVT has also sued in  Delaware , claiming Eurohypo owes $68
million for profit-dependant payments on hybrid capital
investments. Commerzbank is trying to raise 5.3 billion euros
($7 billion) in capital by mid-2012.  Commerzbank, which agreed to buy Eurohypo in 2005, will
analyze the ruling and may appeal, company spokesman Maximilian Bicker said in an e-mailed statement. Eurohypo can appeal the
decision to  Germany ’s top civil court.  “The ruling for the first time clarifies an important
legal issue: how do you have to indemnify profit certificate
investors in a takeover,” said Klaus Steiner, Crown Ocean’s
lawyer. “The court reasoned that you have to grant them
protection similar to shareholders in that situation under
German law.”  Profit certificates are securities that entitle the holder
to a portion of a company’s profits while obliging them to share
in losses without giving them any ownership of the business.  Today’s case is OLG Frankfurt am Main, 5 U 56/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 