-- 
Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Increases for Third Month

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-13T12:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-increases-for-third-month.html
Confidence among U.S. small
companies rose in November for a third month as hiring
intentions climbed and companies projected sales will improve, a
survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s  index 
climbed to 92, the highest level since February, from October’s
90.2, the Washington-based group said today in a statement. The
gauge averaged 88.2 in the recession that ended in June 2009.  “The numbers have been depressing for so long, any little
progress looks good,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said in a statement. “More firms are now creating
jobs than cutting them and plans to do so rose nicely, even if
they are still at weak levels.”  Hiring plans increased to the highest level in more than
three years, and expansion and capital investment gauges picked
up. The  Federal Reserve , in its latest survey of U.S. regions,
said the economy expanded from mid October through November at a
“moderate” pace in 11 of 12 districts, led by gains in
 consumer spending  and manufacturing.  The net share of small-business owners planning to hire
over the next three months rose four points to a 7 percent, the
highest reading since September 2008, the report showed.
Employment increased for the first time in six months.  The share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted for
inflation, rose eight points to 4 percent, the highest since
April. A gauge of expectations for better business conditions
six months from now climbed four points to a net minus 12,
marking a third monthly gain from a record-low of minus 26 in
August.  Europe, Budget  Small business owners are sensitive to developments in the
European default crisis and the U.S. political debate on deficit
cutting and  tax policy , NFIB said in the statement.  “Political developments will continue to dominate the
news, good or bad, and have a significant impact on owner
optimism,” Dunkelberg said.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response, and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  A measure of earnings trends decreased by two points to a
net minus 28 percent, the report showed. At the same time, a net
minus 10 percent of small businesses said they expect easier
credit conditions, a one-point improvement from the prior month.  The NFIB report was based on responses from 781 small-
business owners through Nov. 30. Small companies represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing as many as 500 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  