-- 
Croatia ‘Likely’ to Enter Recession, World Bank Says

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-12-13T13:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/croatia-likely-to-enter-recession-world-bank-says-1-.html
Croatia ’s economy will slide into a
recession in 2012 as  Europe ’s debt crisis hinders growth and the
government delays cuts in state administration and spending, a
 World Bank  economist said.  The economy will contract 1.1 percent next year, Sanja
Madzarevic Sujster, senior economist in the  World Bank ’s office
in Zagreb, told journalists today. The economy will grow 0.5
percent this year, Sujster said. The forecast matches one from
Croatia’s central bank.  “Slowing export growth, weak credit growth, low investment
and persistent unemployment” have resulted in a “sluggish
recovery” this year and a likely recession in 2012, Sujster
said.  Croatia, which is preparing to become the European Union’s
28th member in July 2013, is taking longer than its Balkan
neighbors to climb out of a two-year recession. Foreign direct
investment dropped to $583 million in 2010 from $6 billion in
2008, while the government still needs to strengthen the labor
market and the “business environment,” the European Commission
said on Oct. 12.  The ruling  Croatian Democratic Union  was toppled on Dec. 4
by an opposition bloc led by  Social Democrats , which is expected
to form a government by the end of the year. Premier-Elect Zoran Milanovic said on Dec. 6 he will introduce fiscal measures
within 50 days of taking office to bolster the country’s credit
rating and avoid seeking international aid.  ‘Fiscal House’  Securing recovery and creating jobs require “shoring up
confidence of financial markets, getting the fiscal house in
order and pursuing structural reforms,” Sujster said.  The Washington-based lender targeted the budget shortfall
for 2012 at 4.2 percent of gross domestic product, adding that
in view of “new external and domestic development, the  budget
deficit  could widen to about 6 percent,” Sujster said.  The budget gap for this year is forecast at 6.2 percent of
GDP by the central bank and at 5.5 percent by the World Bank.  Among “policy options” that the new government could take
to revive the economy, the “key candidates for consolidation”
are public wages, social benefits and special pensions, Sujster
said. Croatia also needs to relax its labor legislation and
strengthen tax collection as an estimated 8 percent of the
country’s GDP is lost through evasion in the gray economy, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  