-- 
Oil Surges on Speculation of Supply Disruption in Middle East

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-13T21:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/crude-oil-surges-above-100-a-barrel-from-lowest-level-in-two-weeks.html
Oil rose the most in almost four
weeks on speculation that supplies from the  Persian Gulf  would
be disrupted after a report that  Iran  will hold drills to
practice closing the Strait of Hormuz.  Futures advanced 2.4 percent as the state-run Fars news
agency said Iran was planning military maneuvers at the strait,
a bottleneck for Gulf shipments. Oil rose as much as 3.6 percent
in intraday trading before paring gains on a denial by Iran’s
Foreign Ministry that the country is closing the waterway.  “Crude oil is one of the most susceptible commodities to
geopolitical risks and traders will react to anything in the
 Middle East  that has potential to disrupt oil supplies,” said
 Sal Gilbertie , president of Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Teucrium
Trading LLC, a sponsor of exchange-traded funds based on crude
and natural gas.  Oil for January delivery gained $2.37 to settle at $100.14
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
increase since Nov. 16. Earlier, futures touched $101.25 a
barrel. Prices have risen 9.6 percent this year.  Futures were little changed from the settlement after the
 American Petroleum Institute  reported that  oil inventories  rose
462,000 barrels to 334.6 million last week. January crude gained
$2.19, or 2.2 percent, to $99.96 a barrel in electronic trading
at 4:42 p.m.  Brent oil for January settlement increased $2.24, or 2.1
percent, to $109.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Strait Open  The strait remains open to shipping, said  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry spokesman. Comments about the
closure were made by people who don’t have an official title, he
said. The Fars report cited Parvis Sorouri, a member of the
parliament’s national security and foreign policy committee.  “If the world wants to make the region insecure, we will
make the world insecure,” he said in remarks that first
appeared yesterday on the website of the state-run  Iranian
Students News Agency .  Oil also rose on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
announce a third round of bond purchases in a tactic that has
been dubbed quantitative easing. The Fed bought a total of $2.3
trillion in bonds from December 2008 to June 2011.  The Fed said in a statement at the conclusion of its
meeting today that the economy in the U.S. is maintaining its
expansion even as the global economy slows. It refrained from
taking new action to lower borrowing costs or announcing
additional stimulus measures.  Nuclear Report  European governments are weighing a boycott of Iranian oil
after a Nov. 8 report from the  United Nations ’ International
Atomic Energy Agency that said the country was working on a
nuclear weapons program as recently as last year, a charge the
Islamic republic denies.  The European Union added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist earlier this month to pressure Iran to
curtail its nuclear program. The move followed penalties imposed
by the U.S. in November.  “We’re seeing a return of geopolitics to the market,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The military exercise
in the  Strait of Hormuz  signals an escalation in tension and has
serious implications for the flow of oil.”  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, flows through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Iran pumped 4.25 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, 5.2
percent of the world’s total production, according to  BP Plc ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. It’s OPEC’s second-largest
producer after  Saudi Arabia .  ‘Shock Wave’  “This is the kind of story that sends a shock wave through
the market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of IiTrader.com in  Chicago .  Oil ministers from the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries are scheduled to meet tomorrow in Vienna.
Members agree that the group should set a production ceiling of
30 million barrels a day, an OPEC delegate said today.  OPEC may not allocate individual quotas to each country,
the person said, declining to be identified because the matter
hasn’t been decided.  “There are Iran and OPEC headlines but none explain this
move,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “The Iranian exercise was
announced earlier. They have held many exercises in the Strait
of Hormuz over the years and so have the allied navies.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude oil inventories fell 2.5 million barrels last
week, according to the  median estimate  of 12 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News. The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute
will release its supply data at 4:30 p.m. today in  Washington .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 730,702
contracts as of 4:39 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 539,270
contracts yesterday, 18 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  