-- 
Czech Interest-Rate Cut May Hurt Economy Through Koruna, Zamrazilova Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-12-13T14:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/czech-interest-rate-cut-may-hurt-economy-through-koruna-zamrazilova-says.html
A further reduction in  interest
rates  wouldn’t help the Czech economy as a weaker koruna
threatens to push inflation outside the central bank’s target
range, board member  Eva Zamrazilova  said.  The current weaker exchange rate of the Czech koruna may be
a result of a policy that has been too loose in the past two
years, Zamrazilova said in a Dec. 12 interview. She voted for a
rate increase at eight  meetings  between September 2010 and
August 2011 until voting for unchanged credit costs as  Europe ’s
debt crisis escalated.  “At present, we need to think whether the development with
the koruna isn’t the factor that may push inflation outside the
target corridor,” Zamrazilova said, referring to the target
range of 1 percent to 3 percent. “A reduction of interest rates
in the  Czech Republic  can’t influence demand in our main trading
partners, and I don’t consider this to be a step that could lead
to anything positive in the Czech economy.”  The Ceska Narodni Banka in Prague has left the  two-week
repurchase rate  unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent since May
2010, a quarter-point less than the  European Central Bank ’s main
rate. The bank will weigh a worsening economic performance
against accelerating inflation when deciding on monetary policy
at the final meeting of the year on Dec. 21.  Accelerating Inflation  The headline  inflation  rate rose to a 35-month high of 2.5
percent in November, mainly due to food costs. Monetary-policy
inflation, which is price growth stripped of the primary impact
of increases in indirect taxes, was also 2.5 percent.  The koruna has lost 3.7 percent to the euro so far this
quarter, the third-worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The koruna reversed losses
today and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 25.619 to the euro as
of 3:34 p.m. in  Prague . The central bank forecast an average
exchange rate of 24.8 for the fourth quarter of the year.  The Czech economy  contracted  in the third quarter from the
previous three months for the first time since a 2009 recession
as the debt crisis damped demand for the country’s exports and
government spending cuts curbed household spending. The slowdown
mirrors the economic situation in many European countries where
central banks are holding rates as they assess the effect of the
credit crunch on their economies.  The Czech central bank has said the koruna’s moves are
important for future decisions on interest rates as a firming
currency tames inflationary pressures and tightens monetary
conditions, while its weakening makes imports more expensive.  Weakening Currency  “Currency developments become important to me at the time
when I think that the deviation of the  exchange rate  from the
forecast becomes a factor influencing inflation and inflation
expectations, and I think this may already be the case at this
moment,” Zamrazilova said, without referring to a specific
exchange rate.  Czech economic growth depends on demand for products
including Skoda Auto AS vehicles and other car parts from the
EU. The bloc buys about 80 percent of the country’s exports,
with Germany accounting for a third. Government measures to cut
the  budget deficit  below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent
of GDP by 2013 are damping domestic demand as well.  The central bank doesn’t have “too much” room to cut
interest rates further, the CTK newswire cited Governor Miroslav Singer as saying in an interview on Dec. 12.  Base Scenario  The central bank’s base scenario sees the koruna gaining
next year, with the average exchange rate at 23.1 to the euro.
The bank also prepared an alternative scenario which sees a
“sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth next year.
Under this outlook, the koruna would be weaker, averaging 24.2
per euro, and market interest rates would stay stable.  The central bank board agreed that the “alternative
scenario provided a more realistic picture of the future than
the baseline scenario,” according to the minutes from the
bank’s Nov. 3 policy meeting.  “I’ve been thinking for a year and a half as to whether
rates shouldn’t be higher, and I’m constantly thinking about
it,” Zamrazilova said. “Only at the time of an escalating
crisis in the  euro zone  did I think it wouldn’t be appropriate
to take measures in the tightening direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  