-- 
Daley Says Dispute Isn’t Impairing U.S. Nuclear Commission Work

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/daley-says-dispute-at-nrc-isn-t-impairing-commission-s-work-1-.html
A dispute over management issues at
the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  hasn’t stymied its work and
stems from the way the panel is structured, White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley  said.  Daley, in a letter yesterday to the Republican chairman of
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, also said
the White House won’t send a witness to testify at a hearing
this week on complaints made by NRC commissioners against their
chairman,  Gregory Jaczko .  “We have concluded that while there are tensions and
disagreements among the commissioners, these management
differences have not impaired the commission’s ability to
fulfill its mission,” Daley wrote in the letter released last
night by the White House.  The rebellion at the NRC comes as the Obama administration
is embroiled in energy disputes over the Keystone pipeline and
the failure of Solyndra LLC. The agency is responsible for
regulating the 104 commercial reactors in the U.S. and is
considering applications for a new generation of  power plants .  Committee Hearing  Oversight committee Chairman  Darrell Issa , a  California 
Republican, was seeking a White House representative to appear
at a hearing tomorrow on allegations made by the four other NRC
commissioners against Jaczko, who was appointed chairman by
President  Barack Obama .  “As for the committee’s hearing this week, we respectfully
decline your invitation to provide a witness,” Daley wrote to
Issa.  The congressman responded with a statement critical of the
White House.  “With four bipartisan commissioners raising deeply
troubling concerns about abuse and mismanagement at the NRC,
it’s hard to reach any other conclusion than that the White
House is in denial about the severity of the situation at the
NRC,” Issa said.  The NRC declined to comment last night, agency spokesman
 Eliot Brenner  said in an e-mail.  The four other commissioners, holding two Democratic and
two Republican seats, complained to Daley in October that Jaczko
is causing “serious damage” to the agency. Jaczko responded to
Daley that a commission majority “loosened the agency’s safety
standards” over his objections.  Daley’s Findings  Daley wrote that after the complaints were made in October,
he met individually with Jaczko and the four commissioners on
two occasions. He found that all members of the NRC are
committed to “fulfilling the agency’s mission and to upholding
the institution’s values.”  The inspector general concluded that Jaczko acted within
his legal authority and the other commissiers have the ability
to bring any issue to a vote, Daley wrote.  Republican lawmakers are investigating the administration’s
$535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra, a solar-panel maker
that filed for bankruptcy in September. They are also trying to
force Obama to speed a decision on TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone
XL oil pipeline, which the administration plans to make after
the 2012 elections. This week, a House panel will probe the NRC
discord.  Fukushima Disaster  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
released the commissioners’ complaint to the White House on Dec.
9, plan to quiz Jaczko and his critics on their rift at
tomorrow’s hearing. The commissioners will return to  Capitol
Hill  the next day for a Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee hearing on the agency’s actions in response to the
crisis at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The NRC is considering regulations to improve safety at
U.S. nuclear reactors after the Fukushima disaster and weighing
whether to award Southern Co. and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  the first permits
to build new U.S. reactors in more than 30 years.  Commissioners George Apostolakis and William Magwood IV,
who hold Democratic seats on the nuclear panel, and Commissioner
William Ostendorff joined the commission in 2010. Ostendorff and
Kristine Svinicki, a member of the panel since 2008, hold
Republican seats. President  George W. Bush  named Jaczko to the
NRC in 2005, and Obama promoted him to chairman in 2009.  ‘Circular Firing Squad’  “For the president’s own appointees to be involved in a
circular firing squad is unusual,”  Peter Bradford , a former NRC
commissioner and a Vermont Law School professor, said in an
interview. The dispute is “certainly going to distract the
commissioners and their offices from other agency work,” he
said.  Fissures in the NRC’s leadership became public on May 4,
when Ostendorff told reporters after a House hearing that Jaczko
didn’t consult with his colleagues when recommending that
Americans stay at least 50 miles (80.5 kilometers) from the
Fukushima site.  The differences date back at least to Jaczko’s efforts in
2010 to act on Obama’s campaign promise to abandon plans to
store radioactive waste under Yucca Mountain in Nevada.  A report by the NRC inspector general in June determined
that Jaczko “was not forthcoming with the other commissioners
about his intent to stop work” on  Nevada  project, which was
backed by the nuclear-power industry. The report also cast him
as a manager who acknowledges that “he sometimes loses his
temper.”  Political Dispute  Republicans have said Jaczko stopped work on the Yucca
project for political reasons. The NRC chairman, a former
science adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat who opposes storing waste at Yucca, has said he acted
within the law and without political motivation.  Jaczko’s colleagues have a “lack of understanding” of
their role on the commission, particularly during the agency’s
response after Fukushima, the NRC chairman said in a Dec. 7
letter to Daley, a rebuttal to the Oct. 13 letter the other NRC
commissioners sent.  While the NRC is responsible for writing regulations and
policies that govern the industry, “all other functions,”
including emergency response, are the chairman’s responsibility,
a change put in place following a 1979 partial meltdown at the
Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ,
Jaczko said.  ‘Contempt’ and ‘Disdain’  Jaczko has “intimidated and bullied senior career staff”
and is creating a “chilled work environment” that may affect
the NRC’s safety mission, according to the commissioners’
letter. He also showed “contempt” for the commission and
“open disdain” for its procedures at an Oct. 5 meeting of the
agency’s Executive Director for Operations, they said. Jaczko’s
office issued a statement saying the other commissioners didn’t
attend the meeting.  “This issue that is of most concern is the question of a
chilled working environment,” Marvin Fertel, president and
chief executive officer of the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based industry group, said in a statement yesterday.
“We are confident that Congress and the White House will take
the steps necessary to ensure that the NRC is an efficient,
effective regulator.”  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta, which is seeking to build two
reactors at its Vogtle nuclear plant near Augusta,  Georgia ,
remains confident the NRC will grant it a license for the
project this month, Steve Higginbottom, a Southern spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Democratic lawmakers, including Senator  Barbara Boxer  of
California, said Jaczko is under attack for making the NRC a
tougher enforcer of safety for the nation’s nuclear plants.  “We must move away from the ‘do nothing’ culture of the
NRC and support Chairman Jaczko as he translates the lessons of
Fukushima into an action plan that will make America’s nuclear
plants the safest in the world,” Boxer, chairwoman of the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said in a Dec. 10
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: 