-- 
Dark Side of Fracking Makes Heckmann a Takeover Target: Real M&A

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-12-13T21:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/dark-side-of-fracking-makes-heckmann-bid-target-for-oil-services-real-m-a.html
The need to reduce the environmental
risk from shale-oil drilling is boosting the allure of  Heckmann
Corp. (HEK)  and Poseidon Concepts Corp. as takeover targets.  Local and federal regulators are raising questions about
pollution after demand for so-called hydraulic fracturing, which
involves pumping millions of gallons of water mixed with sand
and  chemicals  into shale rock to unlock oil and gas, tripled in
the past five years. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
said in a report last week it found evidence of chemicals used
in the process in a drinking-water aquifer in Wyoming.  Heckmann and Poseidon, which supply workers and equipment
to handle the chemical-tainted water that is a byproduct of
“fracking,” may now attract interest from oilfield-services
suppliers that help energy companies tap unconventional assets,
said Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. and Haywood Securities Inc. With
analysts projecting  revenue  at both companies will jump at least
50 percent next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
 Stephen Trauber , global head of energy investment banking at
Citigroup Inc., says he expects takeovers in the industry to
increase as demand for water-management expertise rises.  “Water has really leapt to the forefront of energy-related
developmental issues,” Michael Roomberg, a New York-based
analyst for Ladenburg Thalmann, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s an increasing premium placed upon health, safety and
environmental services that these companies practice in the
shale plays. A company that’s in the business of ensuring the
safe disposal, treatment and transport of water like Heckmann is
ideally positioned in this very rapidly growing space.”  Today’s Trading  Shares of Heckmann climbed 1.3 percent to $6.38 in  New York 
today, one of only two companies in the  Bloomberg Americas
Environmental Control Index (BUSENVR)  to advance. Poseidon climbed  2.3
percent  to C$11.31 in Toronto.  Heckmann and Poseidon may make sense for Schlumberger Ltd.
and Halliburton Co., the world’s two biggest oil services
providers, Roomberg and Haywood’s Geoff Ready said.  “The company is not for sale,” Richard Heckmann, chief
executive officer of Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based Heckmann,
said. “I would never market it for sale, but I would never stop
our shareholders from having the right to decide.”  Matt Mackenzie, chief financial officer of Calgary-based
Poseidon, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call or e-
mail seeking comment.  Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton in Houston,
and Stephen Harris, a spokesman for Houston- and Paris-based
Schlumberger, both declined to comment.  Hydraulic Fracturing  Demand for fracking, a method used by  oil companies 
primarily when drilling horizontally to fracture oil- and gas-
bearing rock, has ballooned as rising energy prices make it more
lucrative for producers to explore on land than under water.  Major deposits have also been discovered in parts of the
U.S., such as Eagle Ford in southern  Texas , the Bakken shale in
 North Dakota  and the Marcellus shale in  Pennsylvania .  The number of  horizontal rigs  active in the U.S. has
climbed to 1,151 from 337 at the end of 2006, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rigs drilled about 6,000 wells that were
completed with the fracking process last year, a more than
sixfold jump in five years, according to research firm IHS Cera.  With the boom in fracking, water usage has increased as oil
companies employ higher-powered pressure pumps to inject
chemically treated slurry into dense shale rock to open wells.  Water used by energy companies will almost quadruple to as
much as 15 billion gallons each day by 2035 from 4.3 billion
gallons a day in 1995, according to an estimate by Mike
Hightower, a researcher at Sandia National Laboratories, who was
on the team hired by the U.S. Energy Department for a 2006 study
on the relationship between energy and water.  ‘Hand-in-Hand’  “The development of shales and fracking is growing rapidly
and water goes hand-in-hand with the development of shale
fields,”  Robert Brown , a Minneapolis-based analyst for Craig-
Hallum Capital Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.  It has also raised environmental and public-health concerns
over the possibility that the fluids may be leaking into the
water supply. The EPA’s Dec. 8 draft report linked fracking for
natural gas to groundwater contamination for the first time.  The agency’s three-year study followed complaints from
residents about the smell and taste of their water. Samples
taken from two deep water-monitoring wells near a  gas field  in
Pavillion,  Wyoming , showed synthetic chemicals such as glycols
and alcohols “consistent with gas production and hydraulic-
fracturing fluids,” the  EPA  said.  Opportunity Cost  The report bolstered calls for tighter regulation of air
and water quality in oil and gas production, which may lead to
more demand for expertise in water treatment, transportation and
disposal. That may help boost the industry’s growth and
consolidation, according to Citigroup’s Trauber.  Groups representing investors with more than $130 billion
in assets released a report today saying that natural-gas
producers must do more to reduce environmental harm from
fracking and disclose U.S. drilling risks.  Water management is a “growing business,” Trauber said in
a telephone interview from Houston. “With all the drilling
that’s going on in the U.S, it’s a major concern. It’s a growing
phenomenon that people are recognizing as opportunities and
people are starting to take advantage of it.”  Heckmann, a four-year-old business “created to buy and
build companies in the water sector,” according to its  website ,
would be an attractive target for  Schlumberger (SLB)  or Halliburton
because environmental and safety risks in fracking have placed
an importance on its suite of water services, particularly the
disposal of chemical-tainted water, Ladenburg Thalmann said.  Haynesville Shale  In addition to its trucking, water treatment and fluid
handling services, the $786 million company also has a 50-mile
water disposal  pipeline  in the Haynesville Shale, which spans
northwestern  Louisiana , southwestern  Arkansas  and eastern Texas.
It treats and disposes up to 100,000 barrels of water per day.  Analysts estimate that revenue at Heckmann will increase 51
percent to $256 million in 2012, after more than tripling this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The growth in sales will also help the company become
profitable for the first time next year, the data show.  “Heckmann is building a group of very attractive assets in
the water business, which is critical to energy development,”
said Craig-Hallum’s Brown. “It’s unique in that they have a
broad mix. Heckmann has got a fairly significant growth ramp
ahead of it. That’s attractive to  energy services companies. (HAL) ”  Potential bidders may wait until Heckmann establishes its
competitive advantage in an industry that is still dominated by
smaller companies, according to David Rose, a Los Angeles-based
analyst for Wedbush Securities Inc.  Frack Tanks  “The advantage for any potential acquirer is not really
built in just yet,” he said in a telephone interview. “There’s
a lot of competition.”  Still, the 68-year-old Heckmann, who is also part-owner of
the  National Basketball Association ’s  Phoenix Suns , sold the
last two businesses that he ran -- K2 Inc. and U.S. Filter Corp.
-- before starting his namesake company. Heckmann, which had
risen 40 percent in the past year, ended at $6.30 yesterday.  Poseidon , split off from Open Range Energy Corp. in
 November  so it could rent out so-called frack tanks to other
producers, may also attract interest from potential buyers,
according to Haywood’s Ready, a Calgary-based analyst.  The tanks are used to store fresh water before it’s pumped
into the well for fracking. They then hold the tainted water
after it is pumped back out and before being trucked away or
recycled by another company.  ‘Explosive Growth’  Poseidon, which will have about 240  frack tanks  by the end
of the year, has the ability to build nine tanks a week and can
generate about $1 million from each tank in a year when used
full time, Haywood’s Ready said. That means Poseidon can recoup
the expenses from building a tank, which costs about $200,000
each based on his estimate, in about two or three months.  Analysts now  project  that Poseidon will more than double
revenue to C$163 million ($159 million) next year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. In an acquisition, Haywood’s Ready says the
company could get C$13.50 a share, or 22 percent more than its
 price  of C$11.06 yesterday.  “It’s been explosive growth for them,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The economics on it are staggering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 