-- 
Death of Gold Bull Market Seen by Gartman

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-13T15:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/death-of-gold-bull-market-seen-by-gartman.html
Gold, in the 11th year of its
longest winning streak in at least nine decades, is poised to
enter a bear market, according to  Dennis Gartman , who correctly
predicted the slump in commodities in 2008.  The metal, which traded at $1,666.30 an ounce at 2:43 p.m.
in London, may decline to as low as $1,475, the economist wrote
today in his Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter. He sold the
last of his gold yesterday. Bullion has already dropped 13
percent from the record $1,921.15 reached Sept. 6 and $1,475
would extend that to more than 20 percent, the common definition
of a bear market.  “Since the early autumn here in the Northern Hemisphere
gold has failed to make a new high,” Gartman wrote. “Each high
has been progressively lower than the previous high, and now
we’ve confirmation that the new interim low is lower than the
previous low. We have the beginnings of a real  bear market , and
the death of a bull.”  The metal typically moves inversely to the dollar, which
today reached a two-month high against the euro after  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that a
European Union summit last week offered little help in ending
the region’s debt crisis. Bullion is still 17 percent higher
this year and holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products
are at a record, a hoard now valued at $126.5 billion.  Gold’s 2011 Gain  Gold’s performance this year compares with a 2.8 percent
advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities,
in which it is the third-best performer behind gasoil and
cattle. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated
9.8 percent and Treasuries returned 9.2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  The slump in equities spurred some investors to sell their
gold to cover losses. Open interest, or contracts outstanding,
in gold futures traded on the Comex exchange in  New York , fell
to 427,756 contracts, from 546,601 in July, bourse data show.  “So much damage has been done to the psychology of the
market in the past week and so many late longs have been caught
off guard that we think wholesale liquidation, and perhaps
forced liquidation, shall be the outcome,” Gartman wrote.  ETP investors are increasingly bullish.  Holdings  in the
products climbed 3.8 metric tons to an all-time high of 2,360.5
tons yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
equal to more than 10 months of global mine supply and greater
than the reserves of all but four of the world’s central banks,
which are expanding holdings for the first time in a generation.  Money Managers  Hedge funds  and other money managers boosted bets on higher
futures prices for the first time in three weeks. Net-long
positions in gold futures and options rose by 3.5 percent to
151,347 contracts in the week ended Dec. 6, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. That’s still down 40
percent since the beginning of August, when positions were at
the highest level since at least June 2006, the data show.  While the drop below $1,670 spurred more physical buying
from  India  and South East Asia, the demand increase is from
“relatively low” levels, Standard Bank Plc wrote today in a
report. UBS AG said its physical flows to India yesterday were
“well above” average and the most since Oct. 20.  “This pullback finally encouraged a response from the
physical community,”  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS in London,
wrote in a report. “Market participants are placing a lot of
importance on physical buyers to step in and put a floor under
gold. The physical response seen this week, though not yet
enough to call a trend, should somewhat calm these investors.”  Imports Rise  In  China , the second-largest consumer, gold imports to the
mainland from  Hong Kong  surged 51 percent to 86.3 tons in
October to a monthly record, according to the Census and
Statistics Department of the Hong Kong government. China
imported more than 300 tons for all of 2010, Yi Gang,  People’s
Bank of China  Vice Governor, said in February.  “Buying of that sort should have sent  gold prices 
soaring,” Gartman wrote. “One of the oldest rules of trading
is simply this: a market that cannot or does not respond to
bullish news is a bearish market not a bullish one.”  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities plunged as much as 66
percent in the seven months through February 2009 after Gartman
in June 2008 said there would be a “tidal wave” of selling.
The economist said Aug. 23 that gold was entering the stage when
prices go “parabolic,” two weeks before the metal peaked at
its record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 