-- 
Japan Says Fighter Decision to Be Made Soon After Report of Lockheed Win

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-12-13T04:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/defense-minister-says-japan-is-nearing-jet-fighter-decision.html
Japan  said it’s close to selecting a
supplier for a fighter-jet order that may be worth more than $4
billion after the Yomuiri newspaper reported that  Lockheed (LMT) 
Martin Corp. will win the contest.  “We’ve entered the final stages,” Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “I want to make a
decision soon.” He declined to elaborate on the timing of an
announcement.  Lockheed, Boeing Co. and Eurofighter GmbH have all bid to
supply  Japan  with about 40 planes as the Asian nation replaces
older planes and bolsters defenses. Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter may win because of its
anti-radar technology and Japan’s traditional reliance on U.S.
military hardware, said James Hardy, a London-based analyst at
IHS Jane’s DS Forecast, which advises defense suppliers.  “The F-35 has an advantage in terms of its stealth
capabilities and the fact that it is the newest platform on
offer,” he said. “Its provenance may be a factor too -- like
the  Boeing (BA)  F/A-18, it’s a U.S. platform.”  Japan will choose the F-35 over the Boeing F-18 Super
Hornet and Eurofighter Typhoon, Yomuiri reported today without
saying where it got the information from. The decision will be
announced Dec. 16, it said. Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura said at a separate press briefing that the report
wasn’t true.  Lockheed has already won a $382 billion order to build more
than 2,440 F-35s for the U.S., the Pentagon’s biggest weapon
deal. The program is five years behind schedule and 64 percent
over cost estimates.  Japan Assembly  Japan will base its decision on both the performance
capabilities of the fighter jets and the amount of production
work that can be undertaken by Japanese companies, Ichikawa said.
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. have all previously worked on
assembling fighter jets in Japan.  U.S. and European defense contractors have boosted their
focus on Asian and emerging markets as austerity drives damps
the outlook for military spending in their home markets.  India 
has shortlisted Eurofighter and Dassault Aviation SA as it seeks
a supplier for 126 fighter jets that may cost more than $11
billion. Eurofighter is a venture between  BAE Systems Plc ,
Finmeccanica SpA and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Japan’s new fighters will replace Boeing F-4s, which were
last assembled in the country in 1981. The Asian nation, which
has the world’s sixth-largest defense budget, is upgrading its
air defenses as both Russia and  China  develop stealth fighters
and as  North Korea  works on improving its ballistic missiles and
developing nuclear weapons. Japan had a total of 362 fighter
jets as of March 31, according to the defense ministry’s website.  Minister Censured  The country is pressing ahead with the fighter contest even
after Ichikawa was censured by the opposition-controlled Upper
House earlier this month. He earlier cut his salary to take
responsibility after a deputy compared the planned move of a U.S.
military base on Okinawa to rape.  The F-35, which can be used for both spying and combat,
costs about $133 million each in today’s dollars, according to
the U.S. Government Accountability Office. Typhoons cost about
59 million euros ($78 million), according to Eurofighter, while
Chicago-based Boeing last year said it would offer F-18s to the
U.S. for $49.9 million each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  