-- 
Defiant Hockney, Bacon Feted; Kiefer’s Alchemy: London Galleries

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/defiant-hockney-bacon-are-feted-kiefer-s-scarred-alchemy-martin-gayford.html
Last year,  David Hockney  reminisced
to me about  Francis Bacon , characterizing him as “the first
intelligent painter I met who dismissed a lot of abstract art.”  Bacon would quote Giacometti, who dubbed abstraction “the
art of the handkerchief” -- all stains and dribbles. The young
Hockney was amused by this outrageous contradiction of what was
then a powerful art-world fashion.  A brilliant work by Hockney hangs beside a Bacon Pope in
“The Mystery of Appearance: Conversations between Ten British
Post-War Painters” at  Haunch of Venison , 103 New Bond St.,
London (through Feb. 18, 2012). This is an ambitious and
enterprising show that raises an interesting question.  Freud, Bacon, Hockney and Auerbach -- all included in the
exhibition -- are among the most renowned U.K. artists of the
later 20th century. Yet all practiced a type of art that was
then believed to be no longer of much interest to modern-minded
artists: representational painting.  Why did they pay so little attention to the forces of art-
world dogma? You might say it was for the same reason the
Britons are not in the Euro: natural conservatism or, to put it
another way, an indifference to ideology. The idea that
representational painting was defunct was itself, like the
inevitable triumph of the proletariat, a piece of ideology.  Modern Portraits  It insisted that portraiture, for example, was outmoded.
Bacon, Freud, Hockney and others proved that was not so by
painting marvelous modern portraits. That same lack of ideology
makes it hard to define what else these painters had in common.
They didn’t belong to a movement, and didn’t have a manifesto.  The show suggests unexpected links, such as between Bacon
and Hockney or Freud with two other painters who worked from the
live model, William Coldstream and Euan Uglow. It’s also a
reminder of wonderful artists whose fame has unjustly faded,
especially Michael Andrews, whose “Thames at Low Tide” (1994-
95) must be one of the greatest landscapes of the last century.  Some of the works are for sale, prices are available on
demand at the gallery.  Another country where painting has flourished in defiance
of fashion is Germany. At the  White Cube  gallery, Bermondsey,
there is an equally huge show of new work, “Il Mistero delle
Cattedrali,” by one of the towering names of postwar German
art,  Anselm Kiefer , (144-152 Bermondsey Street, until Feb. 26).  Nazi Remnant  Several of the largest works are based on Tempelhof Airport
in Berlin, a complex of inter-war buildings put up in 1927, then
remodeled as part of Albert Speer’s master plan for the city as
capital of a Nazi empire. It was once intended as the Third
Reich’s doorway to  Europe , is now disused -- and like much of
Kiefer’s work -- haunted by the past.  These pictures, though brand new, seem marked by the
passage of time as though they had been excavated from an
ancient tomb. Some have been immersed in a tank, and the paints
oxidized by an electrical current. Dried sunflowers and little
lead aircraft dangle from the images of vast deserted buildings
(Kiefer was born in 1945, in the bombed-out ruins of  Germany ).  There are symbols from alchemy: Kiefer is fascinated by the
alchemist’s project of transforming one element into another. In
one piece he refers to the Kabbalah and the Golem created out of
inanimate matter by Rabbi Loew of  Prague .  This is painting, and sculpture, on an epic scale, and of a
very different kind from Bacon and Freud, who were trying to
evoke the mysterious presence of a living human being. Kiefer is
after different mysteries -- the transformations wrought by
history and hidden spiritual forces.  Prices for the Kiefer works range from 250,000 euros
($331,625) to 2.85 million euros.  Information:  http://haunchofvenison.com ;
 http://whitecube.com .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 