-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Offers More Concessions to Soothe European Regulators

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-12-13T17:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/deutsche-boerse-nyse-offer-further-concessions-in-bid-to-woo-eu-regulators.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext 
offered further concessions to European regulators after their
previous suggestions didn’t go far enough to eliminate antitrust
concerns over their merger.  The two exchanges are prepared to sell more assets to
soothe concern about their dominance in the European single-
equity derivatives market and will give any buyer the option to
access Eurex Clearing for post-trade processing, the companies
said in a statement today. The proposals include the sale of
NYSE’s London-based Liffe single-stock equity derivatives
business, according to two people familiar with the situation
who declined to be identified as the remedies are private.  “The European Commission seems to be taking a fairly hard
line, so I’m not sure these remedies will do it,” said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  who rates
 Deutsche Boerse  a “buy.” “More open access, not just on new
and innovative products, but on existing products would have
been welcome. The outcome is still too close to call.”  The companies also said they will license the Eurex trading
system to a third party interested in offering interest rate
derivatives. NYSE spokesman James Dunseath and a spokesman for
Deutsche Boerse both declined to comment on the Liffe proposals.  Foster Competition  European Union officials told Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse and New York-based NYSE at a meeting in Brussels on Dec.
6 that their Nov. 17 offer to divest some European single-equity
derivatives units didn’t sway customers and rivals, according to
people familiar with the discussions. Regulators also weren’t
convinced that offering competitors limited access to Deutsche
Boerse’s clearinghouse would do enough to foster competition for
exchange-traded derivatives, the people said.  The meeting followed two days of talks with regulators in
October where the exchanges also failed to alleviate antitrust
concerns. Regulators have told the two companies that their deal
to create the world’s largest exchange would monopolize
derivatives trading in the region. The EU can block a takeover
or require concessions from companies to eliminate potential
antitrust problems.  Other new remedies offered today included increasing the
degree to which rivals’ derivatives can mirror products offered
by Deutsche Boerse and NYSE before they are excluded from using
the exchanges’ clearinghouse, according to two people familiar
with the situation.  Access Limit  The companies offered to boost the so-called correlation
coefficient at which access is allowed for some index-based
products to more than 90 percent, from a previous limit of no
more than 85 percent. They kept the limit unchanged for Liffe’s
benchmark short-term interest rate contracts.  Alternative trading venues will be offered clearinghouse
use in addition to traditional exchanges and access could be
allowed for an indefinite period of time, the people said. The
sale of the Liffe equity-options business would be subject to
regulatory approval and the equivalent Deutsche Boerse unit
would be spun off if it is refused, the people said.  “NYSE shareholders should be relieved that the latest
concessions remain far short of undermining the ‘industrial and
commercial logic’ of the proposed transaction,”  Edward Ditmire ,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York , wrote in a note
to investors. “On the other hand, the concession process has
clearly become iterative, and there are no assurances that
additional, more costly remedies might be demanded.”  The deadline for the European Commission to rule on the
merger was extended until Feb. 9, the companies said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  