-- 
Djokovic, Petra Kvitova Named 2011 World Champions by Tennis Federation

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-12-13T14:04:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/djokovic-petra-kvitova-named-2011-world-champions-by-tennis-federation.html
First-time Wimbledon winners Novak Djokovic and Petra Kvitova were named world champions by the
 International Tennis Federation .  Both players “have managed to combine strong performances
for their country with outstanding individual records,” ITF
president Francesco Ricci Bitti said in an e-mailed statement.
“Novak’s achievements this year are remarkable in such a strong
era for men’s tennis, while Petra has made a major breakthrough
on the women’s tour.”  Djokovic won 41 straight matches until the French Open
semifinals in June and taking the Australian Open, Wimbledon and
the U.S. Open titles. The 24-year-old Serb claimed the top spot
in men’s tennis from  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  in July. He won 10
titles in 2011, boasting a 70-6 overall win-loss record.  “Starting with victory in last year’s Davis Cup Final,
this has been an almost perfect twelve months for me,” Djokovic
said in the statement. “I have always dreamed about becoming
the best in the world, and to have won three Grand Slam titles
and finished the year as No. 1 is very special.”  It’s the first time Djokovic and Kvitova have won the
award.  The ITF’s selection of its senior world champions is based
on a system that considers not only performances in the Grand
Slam tournaments and respective tours, but also gives weight to
performances in the two ITF elite team competitions, the Davis
Cup and Fed Cup.  ‘Dream’  Kvitova is the first player from the  Czech Republic  to be
names ITF world champion since  Ivan Lendl  in 1990. The 21-year-
old won six titles this season, including her first major at
Wimbledon and the season-ending WTA Championships in Istanbul.
She also led her country to victory at the Fed Cup, the elite
team competition for women’s tennis.  “It was a dream year and something I will never forget,”
Kvitova said in the statement.  Just like last year,  Bob and Mike Bryan  were named men’s
doubles world champions. The U.S. twins won eight titles,
including the Australian Open and Wimbledon. They are now tied
with Australian pair Mark Woodforde and  Todd Woodbridge ’s Open
Era record of 11 major titles.  Czech Kveta Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia were
named women’s doubles world champions for the first time. The
pair won six doubles titles during the year, including their
first Grand Slam success at Wimbledon, and ended the year as the
top-ranked team.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  