-- 
Dollar Rises After Fed Keeps Low-Rates Pledge; Euro Falls to 11-Month Low

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-12-13T22:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/dollar-extends-gain-after-federal-reserve-keeps-low-interest-rates-pledge.html
The dollar strengthened against all
of its most-traded counterparts after the  Federal Reserve  took
no additional measures to spur growth, reducing concern policy
makers are eroding the value of the world’s reserve currency.  The euro fell to an 11-month low against the dollar on
concern European leaders won’t agree on ways to expand the
region’s rescue capacities as debt-strapped nations struggle to
fund their deficits. The U.S. currency rose for a second day as
policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated their
pledge to keep interest rates low through mid-2013, while
refraining from taking more steps to lower borrowing costs.  “There was no indication of QE3,” said  Michael Woolfolk ,
senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than
$26 trillion in assets under administration, referring to the
Fed’s policy of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing,
or QE. “It led to some modest firming of the  U.S. dollar 
against the majors like the euro.”  The dollar gained 1.1 percent to $1.3037 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, touching $1.3029, the strongest level since Jan.
12. The shared currency dropped 1.1 percent to 101.68 yen,
touching the lowest since Oct. 6. The dollar rose 0.1 percent to
78 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent after
gaining as much as 1.1 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
 CRB Index  of raw materials rose 1 percent.  Scandinavian Currencies  The Norwegian krone and  Sweden ’s krona slid the most
against the dollar among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The krone dropped 1.7 percent to 5.9373 per dollar
and the krona weakened 1.6 percent to 6.9834.  The Swiss franc reached the weakest level against the
dollar since February. It fell 0.9 percent to 94.56 centimes,
touching 94.48. The pound rose to as high as 84.03 pence per
euro, the strongest since Feb. 22.  Fed policy makers said the economy in the U.S. is
maintaining its expansion even as the global economy slows.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of its meeting today in  Washington . “While
indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market
conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains elevated.”  Rates Pledge  The central bank left unchanged its statement that economic
conditions are likely to warrant “exceptionally low” interest
rates “at least through mid-2013.” The central bank lowered
its target overnight  interest rate  to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008.  The greenback dropped four times in five days last week as
better-than-expected data signaled the world’s biggest economy
will avoid a recession. It rose against its major counterparts
yesterday amid concern leaders in Europe failed to make
sufficient progress in solving the region’s debt crisis at the
recent summit in Brussels.  The euro dropped today against most of its major
counterparts after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told German
coalition lawmakers that the 500 billion euro ($654 billion) cap
on  Europe ’s planned permanent bailout fund will stay in place,
two officials with knowledge of the discussion said.  Merkel Update  Merkel, during a meeting of her Christian Democratic caucus
in Berlin today, confirmed the limit on the European Stability
Mechanism as agreed by European Union leaders at a summit last
week, the officials said on condition of anonymity because the
talks are behind closed doors.  “The reluctance to raise the ceiling of the permanent
bailout fund is like taking candy from a baby,” said Tommy Molloy, chief dealer at FX Solutions, a currency brokerage, in
Saddle River,  New Jersey . “The very fact that there is any sort
of reluctance to fix any problem as it arises suggests that the
consensus that we thought was going to start with the EU summit
last week really isn’t there.”  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency, adding 200 billion
euros to their current bailout fund and tightening rules to curb
future debts. They also agreed to move up the creation of the
ESM and said that by March the EU will reassess plans to cap the
overall lending of the ESM and the temporary fund at 500 billion
euros.  German Plan  For the time being,  Germany  deflected a move to grant the
ESM a banking license, which would enable it to multiply its
firepower by borrowing from the ECB.  The euro’s tumble below its weakest levels against the
dollar reached during October and November suggests the 17-
nation currency may weaken to its lowest level this year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  A break below $1.3047, the 61.8 percent Fibonacci
retracement level from a four-year low reached in June 2010, may
send the shared currency to the weakest this year, according to
Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst with
JPMorgan. The 2011 low is $1.2867, reached on Jan. 10.  Implied volatility  for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations dropped to 12.97 percent from a high this year of 15.77
percent, reached Sept. 22, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index.  “There are increased illiquid markets through the year
end,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in  New York . “A lot of
people are staying on the sidelines until January.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  