-- 
DuPont 2012 Profit May Rise 12% on Agriculture, Chemicals

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-12-13T21:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/dupont-says-2012-profit-may-rise-12-on-agriculture-sales-gain.html
     Dec. 13 (Bloomberg) -- DuPont Co., the largest U.S.
chemicals company by market value, said profit will rise as much
as 12 percent in 2012, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as
agricultural and titanium-dioxide sales increase.  Profit excluding certain items will be $4.20 to $4.40 a
share, representing an increase of 7 to 12 percent from the
midpoint of its 2011 forecast, the Wilmington, Delaware-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts expected earnings of
$4.29 a share, according to the average of 18 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales will be $40 billion to $42 billion next
year, from about $38 billion, DuPont said.  Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said growth will be
led by insecticides, genetically modified seeds and titanium
dioxide pigment, as well as food ingredients and biofuels,
businesses created with this year’s acquisition of Danisco A/S.  The forecast’s midpoint trails the company’s long-term
growth target of 12 percent, Kullman said. “This is prudent
with the macro uncertainty that surrounds us,” she said. Dupont
has exceeded profit estimates in each of the 11 quarters since
Kullman became CEO.  The global economy will grow as much as 3 percent next
year, with China gaining 8 percent and  Europe  unchanged, DuPont
said. The dollar may strengthen 3 percent next year versus a
basket of other currencies, the company said.  Long-Term Growth  The company expects sales growth at its agricultural
business of 8 to 10 percent in “the long term” with pretax
operating profit margins rising to as much as 22 percent. Chief
Financial Officer Nick Fanandakis said the targets are peaks
that should occur within the company’s planning horizon. Seed
volumes in the current planting season in  Latin America  may
increase 40 percent, DuPont said.  DuPont raised the long-term sales growth forecast at its
performance chemicals business, which makes titanium dioxide, by
1 percentage point to as much as 8 percent. Pretax operating
profit margins will be as high as 24 percent next year, similar
to 2011, and as much as 20 percent in the long term, DuPont
said.  DuPont cut its long-term forecast for profit margins from
its safety and protection division and its performance materials
unit.  Weakest Outlook  Increased competition in fibers and persistent weakness in
housing prompted the company to cut its outlook for margins from
the safety and protection division, which makes Kevlar high-
strength fibers and Tyvek weather wrap, Fanandakis said. Higher
raw-material costs led DuPont to cut its long-term forecast for
margins in the performance materials unit, which supplies
plastics for auto parts and industrial uses.  The performance coatings unit has the weakest outlook.
Sales will grow as much as 5 percent in the long term, with
margins as high as 12 percent, DuPont said.  DuPont would divest units to increase  shareholder value ,
Fanandakis said. Kullman said she was “appalled” by media
reports that the company is trying to sell its coatings unit,
the world’s largest maker of auto paints. The company regularly
considers whether to sell units, she said.  “I love all my children equally, until I don’t love
them,” Kullman said.  Pretax operating margins in the nutrition unit may rise to
as much as 14 percent in the long term, from 7 percent in 2011,
as the company achieves $130 million in Danisco acquisition
synergies in 2012, a year earlier than forecast, the company
said yesterday. Sales may increase as much as 9 percent a year.  DuPont fell 1 percent to $43.29 in  New York . The shares
have dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  