-- 
Italy’s Bank Association to Oppose EBA Decision ‘At All Levels’

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-12-13T15:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/eba-failed-to-evaluate-economic-impact-of-action-italy-s-mussari-says.html
Italy’s Banking Association  will
oppose the European Banking Authority’s demands for banks to
increase capital “at all levels,” Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari 
said.  “The European Banking Authority measures are a great
mistake that may cause a credit crunch and hurt the economy,”
Mussari told reporters in  Rome . “We will use all instruments
available under the Italian and European law to oppose them,”
he said. ABI, as the association is known, said in a Dec. 9
statement that it might consider legal actions against EBA over
the capital-raising measures.  EBA said on Dec. 9 that European Union banks must raise
114.7 billion euros ($153 billion) in new capital to withstand
writedowns caused by the area’s sovereign-debt crisis. Italy’s
top five lenders have to boost capital by 15.4 billion euros, up
from the 14.8 billion euros estimated in the previous round of
stress tests in October.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, will need 8 billion
euros in additional capital, the second most among European
banks after  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , and up from 7.4 billion euros
previously estimated in October, the EBA said.  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) ’s shortfall rose to 3.3 billion euros from
3.1 billion euros.  “Our initiative is to protect the national interest, not
the banks’ interests,” Mussari said.  Italian lenders are facing higher costs of funding as
contagion from the sovereign debt crisis spread to Italy last
month, pushing the yield on the country’s 10-year bond above the
7 percent threshold that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
seek bailouts.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  needs 1.4 billion euros and
 Banco Popolare SC (BP)  2.7 billion euros, according to the EBA. For
both lenders the authority requested about 100 million less than
estimated in October.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s No. 2 bank, is the only
Italian bank under review that doesn’t need additional capital,
the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  