-- 
EDF Reactor Contracts ‘Tangible’ Sign U.K. Nuclear on Target

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-12-13T15:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/edf-reactor-contracts-tangible-sign-u-k-nuclear-on-target-1-.html
Electricite de France SA has signed
200 million pounds ($311 million) of supply chain contracts for
its nuclear program in Britain, as the company seeks to complete
its first U.K. nuclear plant in 2018.  The accords are a “tangible demonstration” that the
Paris-based utility’s U.K. plans are on target,  EDF (EDF)  U.K. Chief
Executive Officer Vincent de Rivaz said today at a conference in
 London . The contracts will support more than 500 jobs, he said.  The European debt crisis and the Fukushima disaster have
weighed on plans to build reactors in the U.K. About a quarter
of Britain’s energy capacity will expire in the next decade as
coal-fired stations shut to meet European pollution requirements
and reactors reach the end of their working lives. The country
is due to retire all but one of its 18 reactors by 2023.  “We need to see a chain of reactors getting built,”
Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said at the conference. Nuclear
power is “central to our growth agenda” and has “genuine
cross-party support.”  In the months after the March tsunami in Japan triggered
meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, the British
and French governments reiterated support for atomic energy,
while Germany rolled back plans for reactor life extensions and
committed to shut all atomic plants by 2022. A Populus poll of
2,050 people conducted for the British Science Association in
August found that 54 percent of people support the construction
of nuclear stations if it would help tackle  climate change .  Six Utilities  EDF, in partnership with  Centrica Plc (CNA) , is one of six
utilities planning to build atomic stations in Britain. The
company’s Hinkley Point reactor will be the first built in the
country in more than 15 years. As many as 25,000 people will be
employed over the course of construction, Project Director Chris
Bakken said today. The 3,260-megawatt plant will produce enough
energy to power about 5 million homes, he said.  An interim design approval certificate for the  Areva SA  EPR
design for Hinkley will be issued tomorrow by the U.K. Office of
Nuclear Regulation, de Rivaz said.  The U.K. announced plans in March to set a minimum price on
carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2013. The price floor is
intended to ensure that large-scale power project investors are
paid for the energy they produce, Hendry said today.  Utilities may need to spend as much as 6 billion pounds per
reactor, according to Hendry. EDF’s first-of-a-kind EPR reactor
at Flamanville, France, will cost about 5 billion euros ($6.6
billion), 1.7 billion euros more than originally planned.  Other companies considering building nuclear power stations
in the U.K. include  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EON AG (EOAN) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  