-- 
Medtronic Agrees to $23.5M Kickback Settlement

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-13T05:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/medtronic-to-pay-23-5-million-to-settle-allegations-of-doctor-kickbacks.html
Medtronic (MDT)  Inc., the  world’s biggest
maker of heart rhythm devices, agreed to pay $23.5 million to
settle claims it paid kickbacks to doctors who implanted its
pacemakers and defibrillators in patients, the U.S. Justice
Department said in a statement.  Medtronic agreed yesterday to settle two lawsuits filed in
federal courts in California and  Minnesota  accusing the company
of violating the federal False Claims Act by paying physicians
$1,000 to $2,000 for each patient who was implanted with one of
the company’s devices, according to the Justice Department.  “Patients who rely on their health-care providers to
implant vital medical devices expect that those decisions will
be made with the patients’ best interests in mind,”  Tony West ,
assistant attorney general for the  Justice Department ’s Civil
Division, said in an e-mailed statement. “Kickbacks, like those
alleged here, distort sound medical judgments with financial
incentives paid for by the taxpayers.”  The lawsuits were filed by whistle-blowers who will receive
more than $3.96 million from the federal recovery.  The company caused false claims to be submitted to Medicare
and Medicaid by using two post-market studies and two device
registries as vehicles to pay participating physicians illegal
kickbacks to induce them to implant its pacemakers and
defibrillators, the Justice Department said in the statement.  Investigation ‘Behind Us’  Medtronic said in an e-mailed statement that it makes no
admissions that the studies were “improper or unlawful.” The
company also said it established a reserve for the anticipated
payment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011.  “We are happy that the investigation is behind us, so we
can continue designing and executing clinical trials that
generate evidence to improve patient care, outcomes and cost
effectiveness,” Marshall Stanton, vice president of clinical
research and reimbursement for the cardiac and vascular group at
Minneapolis-based Medtronic, said in the statement.  In 2006, Medtronic agreed to pay $40 million to settle
allegations that its Sofamor Danek unit violated state laws and
the  False Claims Act  by paying sham consulting fees and
providing lavish trips to doctors who used its products from
1998 to 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  