-- 
Lehman Trader Goes Mad, Geithner Saves Citi: Top Business Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/lehman-trader-goes-mad-geithner-saves-citi-top-business-books.html
Madness, hubris and betrayal: Who
needs drama when all the elements of a Greek tragedy, including
Greece itself, can be found in the best business books of 2011?  In one, a trader from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  loses
his grip and attempts suicide. Another says U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner ignored a presidential order about
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   Here’s a list of my favorite books this year on the
financial maelstrom, followed by some top economics and general
business titles.  Crisis Books  1. “Confidence Men” by  Ron Suskind  (Harper). A behind-
the-scenes look at how President Barack Obama came under the
spell of Geithner and  Lawrence Summers , two men who had
“contributed to the very financial disaster they were hired to
solve.” Obama doesn’t deny that Geithner ignored his order to
draw up plans to wind down Citi, writes Suskind in this nuanced
account; Geithner says he didn’t “slow walk the president on
anything.”  2. “Civilization” by  Niall Ferguson  (Penguin Press/Allen
Lane). The prolific Harvard historian offers his riposte to
crisis books asserting that the West is swirling down the drain.
Sure, the U.S. and Europe are struggling. Yet  China  and the rest
have risen because they’re copying six powerful advantages --
including competition, science and the work ethic -- that
allowed the West to dominate the globe.  3. “Boomerang” by Michael Lewis (Norton/Allen Lane). The
former Salomon Brothers bond salesman who wrote “ Liar’s Poker ”
and “Moneyball” regales us with his romp across “the New
Third World” -- countries from Iceland to Greece that were
devastated after the credit bubble burst.  4. “Money and Power” by William D. Cohan (Doubleday/Allen
Lane). A scrupulously balanced if sometimes ponderous history of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  by the author of “House of Cards” and
“The Last Tycoons.” A former Lazard Freres & Co. banker, Cohan
evinces an eye for images and an ear for quotations as he
explores Goldman’s “schizophrenic” behavior.  5. “Exorbitant Privilege” by  Barry Eichengreen  (Oxford).
Eichengreen, who teaches at the University of California,
Berkeley, presents a brisk primer on the dollar’s rise -- and
potential decline -- as the dominant international currency. The
biggest threat to the greenback, he says, won’t come from
abroad; it will arise from America’s failure to strengthen its
own economy.  6. “Extreme Money” by Satyajit Das (FT Press). The
derivatives specialist who wrote “Traders, Guns & Money” puts
his inside knowledge to good use in this withering analysis of
how 30 years of financial alchemy and excessive credit plunged
us into the Great Recession.  7. “Models.Behaving.Badly” by Emanuel Derman (Free Press/
Wiley-Blackwell). The former head of quantitative finance at
Goldman Sachs explains why models failed during the  mortgage
meltdown  and why modelers must use them more wisely.  8. “Fatal Risk” by Roddy Boyd (Wiley). An engaging
reconstruction of how  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
committed “corporate suicide.”  9. “Red Capitalism” by Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie (Wiley). An eye-opening look at how Communist Party bosses
control  China’s economy .  10. “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt” by Jason Manolopoulos
(Anthem Press). A hedge-fund manager examines how his Greek
compatriots frittered away their future -- and how German and
French bankers egged them on.  General Business  1. “Street Freak” by Jared Dillian (Touchstone). A former
Lehman trader describes his battle to survive in a business that
tested his sanity. From hair-trigger bets to trashy banter,
Dillian captures how the market’s “malignant omniscience”
feels to a dealer caught “in the hands of an angry God.”  2. “Steve Jobs” by Walter Isaacson (Simon & Schuster). A
memorable biography of the brilliant and maddening man who
revolutionized the way we work and  play. (AAPL)   3. “The High-Beta Rich” by  Robert Frank  ( Crown Business ).
The Wall Street Journal wealth reporter returns to
“Richistan,” only to find billionaires flailing in debt and
losing their Sea Ray yachts and Gulfstream jets to repo men.  4. “Punching Out” by Paul Clemens (Doubleday). A blackly
comic journal of what happens after a Detroit factory shuts
down.  5. “Idea Man” by Paul Allen (Portfolio/Viking). This
memoir by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s co-founder offers a fascinating look
at what it took to build the software behemoth.  Economics Titles  1. “Thinking, Fast and Slow” by Daniel Kahneman (Farrar,
Straus and Giroux/Allen Lane). The Princeton psychologist, who
won a  Nobel Prize  in economics, synthesizes decades of research
in this absorbing journey through our “mental machinery.” In
unpretentious prose, he discusses how we make choices about
everything from picking stocks to predicting the future value of
Bordeaux wines.  2. “Grand Pursuit” by Sylvia Nasar ( Simon &
Schuster /Fourth Estate). A vivid narrative history of economists
-- from Beatrice Webb to John  Maynard Keynes  -- who pursued the
idea that mankind could control its destiny.  3. “Poor Economics” by Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo (PublicAffairs). An enlightening look at what randomized
control trials, such as those used to assess new medicines, tell
us about the behavior of impoverished people -- and how to help
them. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology economists
describe the rational motivations that underpin “irrational”
decisions. We meet, for example, Moroccan villagers who find
money to buy televisions, DVD players and cell phones when they
can’t afford enough food.  4. “Adapt” by Tim Harford (Farrar, Straus and Giroux/
Little, Brown). The Undercover Economist contemplates why
“success always starts with failure.”  5. “Spousonomics” by Paula Szuchman and Jenny Anderson
( Random House /Bantam). A geeky guide to finding marital bliss
through economics.  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 