-- 
Employers in U.S. Plan to Boost Hiring in 2012, Manpower Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/employers-in-u-s-plan-to-boost-hiring-in-2012-manpower-says.html
Employers in the U.S. plan to hire
more workers in the first quarter of 2012, indicating growing
optimism over the economic outlook, a survey showed.  Manpower Inc. (MAN) , the world’s second-largest provider of
temporary workers, said today its employment index climbed to 9
percent, the highest reading since 2008, from 7 percent for the
October to December period on a seasonally adjusted basis. The
gauge increased for the first time in a year.  A pickup in employment would raise the odds that  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy
will sustain recent gains into next year. Uncertainty
surrounding the outcomes of the European debt crisis and the
U.S. budget battle may be holding companies back from expanding
workforces even more, the report said.  “Slow-but-steady momentum has improved employer
confidence,” Jonas Prising, president of the Americas for
Milwaukee-based Manpower, said in a statement. While “this
uptick is encouraging,” there is “continued uncertainty about
the future and ongoing caution when it comes to staffing
plans,” he said.  The share of survey respondents who are unsure of hiring
intentions rose to 7 percent, the highest since 2005. Compared
with 3 percent in the prior quarter, the jump was the biggest
since 1977, Manpower said.  Less Certain  The first-quarter employment index was up from 8 percent in
the same period of 2011 on a seasonally adjusted basis. The
measure subtracts the percentage of employers planning to cut
jobs from those looking to hire, and adjusts the results for
seasonal variations.  About seven of every 10 employers said they anticipated
staff levels will not change in the final three months of this
year, similar to the outlook in the previous quarter. The report
showed 14 percent of employers plan to add workers in the
January to March 2012 period, down from 16 percent in the
previous three months. The share of those projecting workforce
reductions fell to 9 percent from 11 percent.  Other reports have signaled the job market is healing.
Payrolls grew by 120,000 last month and the  unemployment rate 
fell to 8.6 percent. Part of the decline was due to a drop in
the number of those looking for work, Labor Department figures
showed on Dec. 2.  Today’s Manpower report showed employers in 12 of the 13
industries surveyed had a positive hiring outlook, up from 11 in
the prior quarter. The plans were led by mining, leisure and
hospitality and retail and wholesale trade. First-quarter hiring
intentions stayed negative at construction businesses, while
plans at government agencies turned positive from negative.  Employers in all four major U.S. regions in the Manpower
survey expected hiring to increase in the first three months of
2012 on a seasonally adjusted basis, led by the Midwest. The
West had the weakest outlook.  Manpower interviewed more than 18,000 employers in the U.S.
The survey is conducted quarterly, and the margin of error for
U.S. data is plus or minus 0.6 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  