-- 
English Butlers Wanted For Super-Rich Clients in China, Russia

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-12-13T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/english-butlers-wanted-for-emerging-super-rich.html
English butlers, synonymous with
Reginald Jeeves in the novels of P.G. Wodehouse, are answering
more calls from super-rich Chinese and Russian clients as wealth
shifts between east and west.  The  Guild of Professional English Butlers  has trained 20
percent more butlers this year than last, placing them with
clients as soon as they are ready, according to Robert Watson,
head of the firm in southern  England , last week. The number of
domestic staff registered with  Greycoat Placements  has trebled
over the past three years, Managing Director Debbie Salter said.  “Demand is outstripping supply,” Watson said by
telephone. “We deal with people who often are cash rich and
time poor. The credit crunch did affect things for a time, but
before you get rid of the butler, get rid of the Ferrari.”  As Europe struggles with a debt crisis and the U.S. tries
to revive its economy, burgeoning growth in  emerging markets  is
boosting spending on luxuries like never before, and creating
opportunities for more people to look after them.  The ranks of millionaires in 10 major Asian economies will
more than double to 2.8 million by 2015, according to a Julius
Baer Group and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets report on Aug. 31.
 China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, compared with U.S. growth of 1.5 percent.  Mulberry Group Plc (MUL) , an English maker of luxury bags and
accessories, said on Dec. 8 that first-half pretax profit more
than tripled as sales in the Asia-Pacific region grew more
quickly than in any other area.  Chinese Clients  “We have been doing a lot of business in  China 
particularly,” said Robert Wennekes, chairman of  The
International Butler Academy , which trains servants in formal
white gloves and tails at a castle in the Netherlands. “Every
month for the past 15 months, I have been travelling from
Amsterdam to China to service our clients there.”  Watson estimated that his company trains more than 1,000
butlers per year and around a fifth of those go into personal
service for the wealthy, with the remainder at hotels.  Demand for placing butlers in the homes and yachts of the
wealthy increased about 20 percent this year, according to
Sebastian Hirsch, owner of  Butler For You , a company registered
in Berlin placing household staff across  Europe . Hirsch has 30
percent more butlers on his books this year.  Sara Vestin, director of Bespoke Bureau,  Peek-a-boo  &
 Cupcakes  Domestic Staff & Nanny agencies in  London , said her
company trained 52 butlers this year, up from 20 last year, and
they all got jobs. The highest paid placement was for a 101,500-
pound ($158,390) salary in the  United Arab Emirates , she said.  ‘Win, Win’  “Everyone looking for a job who is accepted on the
training with us, will get a job,” Vestin said in a Dec. 7 e-
mail. “There are a lot of people looking to hire butlers and
there is a shortage of them, so for us it’s a win, win
situation,” she said.  Butlers undergo a month-long training program that includes
instruction on food and wine service and “second guessing”
what their employer wants, said Watson. It costs trainees about
8,000 pounds for the live-in package.  The  butler ’s place in English society reached its peak
during the increasing affluence of the  Victorian era  when having
a butler was “considered essential for those aspiring to
gentility,” according to The Rise and Fall of the Victorian
Servant, a book written by Pamela Horn and published in 1975.  “In most families the office of butler was one which
commanded respect and even awe,” Horn wrote. “The aim was to
provide service as quietly and efficiently as possible.”  Fewer Butlers  In 1911, some 800,000 British homes had servants, following
World War I the numbers dropped as new career paths opened and
social attitudes changed, according to Horn. By 1969, the number
of male servants fell to 12,000 in the U.K., declining further
over the subsequent four decades. There are now around 8,000
butlers in the U.K., Hirsch at Butler For You estimated.  The role of the modern butler is now closer to that of a
personal assistant, helping organize an employer’s diary, as
well as offering advice on etiquette, with discretion a must,
said Watson. Discretion is vital since Paul Burrell, butler to
 Princess Diana , revealed details of her life following her death
in 1997, Watson, a former butler, said.  Greycoat Placements, also based in London, has about 20,000
people on its books today, three times more than in 2008, Salter
said. Butler placements by the company grew about 20 percent
this year over 2010, she said.  Demand has been driven partly because of a growing number
of Chinese clients needing butlers for their second homes in
London, said Laura Harrall, a director at Greycoats.  “Asia is coming up pretty strong now,” Watson said. “We
are getting lots of enquiries from these Chinese who are sitting
on piles of money. They are discovering that if you spend $8
million on a villa with marble flooring, you need someone to
come along who knows what they are doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  