-- 
Erste, RZB Preparing Participation Capital Swap, Regulator Says

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-12-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/erste-rzb-preparing-participation-capital-swap-regulator-says.html
Austria’s financial watchdog FMA
expects  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG  to swap non-voting capital held by private
investors into capital that is recognized internationally.  “Almost all participation capital constructions have the
option of a swap,” FMA Co-Chairman Helmut Ettl told reporters
in Vienna late yesterday. “It just depends on the conversion
conditions.”  Erste and RZB, the majority owner of  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , in 2009 sold so-called participation capital
to private investors as part of their deal to get funds from the
government. RZB and other Austrian banks have sold participation
capital also on other occasions before and after the 2009 deal.  While those securities are loss-absorbing and counted
toward the banks’ core Tier 1 capital, they were disqualified by
the European Banking Authority for its stress tests this year
and don’t help banks reach the EBA’s 9 percent minimum by
mid-2012. This saddles the banks with securities which pay an 8
percent coupon and can’t be counted as capital.  The banks are “preparing a conversion and are confident”
that such a swap would work, Ettl said.  RZB, which had a capital shortfall of 2.1 billion euros
($2.8 billion) in EBA’s most recent  stress test , may swap as
much as 1 billion euros of participation capital issued by RZB
and Raiffeisen into common shares or contingent convertible
bonds, Raiffeisen Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic said on
Nov. 17.  Erste Chief Financial Officer Manfred Wimmer said on Dec. 9
that the bank, which had a capital gap of 743 million euros,
could convert about half of its private participation capital
into CoCos. Wimmer said that this was part of Erste’s fall-back
option should its planned asset reductions fail.  Erste sold 540 million euros of participation capital in
2009, 250 million euros of which was taken up by Vienna
Insurance Group AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  