-- 
EU Banks Selling ‘Crown Jewels’

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-12-13T11:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/eu-banks-selling-crown-jewels-to-raise-capital-risk-undermining-growth.html
European banks, under pressure from
regulators to bolster capital, are selling some of their
fastest-growing businesses to competitors from outside the
region -- at the expense of future profit and economic growth.  Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Belgium’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and
 Germany ’s  Deutsche Bank AG  are accelerating plans to exit
profitable operations outside their home markets. Santander,
which said in October it needs to plug a 5.2 billion-euro ($6.9
billion) capital gap, sold its Colombian unit last week to
Chile’s Corpbanca for $1.16 billion. Deutsche Bank is weighing
options including a sale of most of its asset-management unit,
while KBC may dispose of businesses in Poland.  Such sales risk hurting long-term profit, just as  Europe 
enters recession, investors say. It’s the unintended consequence
of the decision by European regulators to make banks increase
core capital to 9 percent by June instead of 2019. Unwilling to
raise equity because their share prices are too low, lenders are
selling profitable assets because they’re struggling to find
buyers willing to pay enough for their troubled loans to avoid a
loss that would erode capital. Investors say the sales risk
leaving banks focused on a stagnant economy and deprive them of
economic growth from outside the region.  “These are the most profitable parts of their business,”
said Azad Zangana, European economist at London-based Schroders
Plc, the 200-year-old British asset manager, citing Spanish and
Portuguese banks selling assets in  Latin America . “They’re
being forced by regulators to sell them off. You begin to become
a less profitable organization. Your business model stops
working if you’re being forced to lend only to an economy that’s
going through a very deep recession.”  Hurting Profitability  The divestitures are likely to hurt banks’ profitability in
coming years, analysts say. Shrinkage will cut their return on
net asset value by 1.5 percentage points on average, according
to a Dec. 6 report by Huw van Steenis, a Morgan Stanley analyst
in  London . Return on asset value at Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank will shrink by almost 1 percentage point and at Santander
by about 0.8 percentage point because of deleveraging, he said.
The shrinking economy will help cut returns by an additional 2.5
percentage points, he added.  ‘Cheaper Way’  For French banks  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , return on equity may fall to between 7
percent and 9 percent in 2013, from 12 percent to 21 percent in
2007, according to Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue
in Paris. The ratio may rise to between 10 percent and 12
percent by 2015, assuming the economy recovers by then, he said.  “There’s nothing wrong in theory about selling the crown
jewels,” Nijdam said. “It’s always a question of price.
European banks will be less profitable -- but less risky.”  For banks, selling assets has become a cheaper way to raise
capital than selling new stock after their shares tumbled. The
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has slumped
33.5 percent this year, leaving bank stocks trading at an
average of 63 percent of book value.  “Many of those banks are trading at 50 percent of their
book value, so if you can sell an asset at more than that, it’s
a cheaper way to raise capital,” said Symon Drake-Brockman,
former chief executive officer of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ’s global banking and markets in the Americas and now
managing partner of private-equity firm Pemberton Capital
Advisors LLP in London.  ‘Adverse Selection’  Banks across Europe have pledged to cut more than 950
billion euros of assets over the next two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About two-thirds of that will come
from sales of profitable units and performing loans, said van
Steenis. Sales of distressed assets and souring loans will
account for just 4 percent, or about 100 billion euros, he said.  “European banks are likely to sell good, performing assets
to foreign banks and investors,” he said in an interview. “The
question is: When are you getting to the point of adverse
selection? When you’re selling the good assets and you’re
keeping the more risky assets. There is a risk we’re moving in
that direction.”  Buyers, for the most part private-equity and hedge funds,
are offering too steep discounts for underperforming assets. For
banks, a fire sale would trigger losses they can ill afford at a
time when they’re required to boost capital.  “Lenders are selling more liquid assets so they can get a
price that avoids additional capital losses,” said Joseph
Swanson, co-head of restructuring at Houlihan Lokey in London.
“Unfortunately, this strategy can result in lower asset quality
and increased earnings volatility.”  Raising Capital  Regulators are forcing European banks to raise capital as
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis worsens. The  European Banking
Authority  last week ordered the region’s financial firms to
raise 114.7 billion euros of additional capital. The EBA, which
co-ordinates the work of the region’s 27 national regulators,
told lenders to bolster their core Tier 1 capital ratios to more
than 9 percent of risk-weighted assets by the middle of 2012.  Faced with a potential credit crunch, the regulator told
banks to raise the money from investors, retained earnings and
lower bonuses. Failing that, companies may sell assets, provided
the disposals don’t limit overall lending to the European
Union’s “real” economy, the EBA said in a Dec. 8 statement.  ‘Family Jewels’  “The family jewels are being sold,” Richard Mattione, a
portfolio manager at Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo &
Co., wrote in a report this month. “A big chunk of private
sector loans can’t be reduced because they involve property that
will be inactive for years, perhaps a decade. So, once banks
trim their healthiest borrowers, and perhaps reduce their
overseas exposures, they quickly run into the need to cut loans
to small and medium enterprises, providing another negative
impulse to European growth.”  Santander completed the sale of its Brazilian insurance
operations to Zurich Financial Services AG for $1.7 billion and
sold a $958 million stake in Banco Santander Chile, the South
American country’s biggest bank by assets. The Chilean bank’s
net profit grew  45 percent (BSAN)  between 2008 and 2010 and may
increase by another 15 percent this year to about $970 million,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Santander
said it will also sell a stake in its Brazilian banking unit.  The Spanish lender’s sale of its U.S. consumer-loan
business to a group led by private-equity firm KKR & Co. may cut
net profit for Santander’s shareholders by 150 million euros,
according to an Oct. 28 estimate by Raoul Leonard, an analyst at
RBS in London.  ‘Meaningful Negative’  “That may only equate to 2 percent of Santander’s group
net attributable profit for 2010, but assuming multiple asset
sales may be in the pipeline, this could lead to a meaningful
negative drag on” earnings, Leonard wrote.  A spokeswoman for Santander, who asked not to be identified
by name in line with company policy, declined to comment.  KBC, the Belgian bank that received a 7 billion-euro
government bailout, said in July it would sell Towarzystwo
Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA,  Poland ’s second-largest
insurer, and its 80 percent stake in Polish bank Kredyt Bank SA.  The sale of Kredyt Bank, whose net income rose 9.5 percent
to 60.8 million zloty ($17.6 million) in the third quarter, will
reduce KBC’s return on equity to 17.3 percent from 18.9 percent,
according to Benoit Petrarque, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Amsterdam.  ‘Two Sides’  If the disposal isn’t big enough to help meet the 9 percent
capital target, the bank could sell its Czech unit as well,
Petrarque said. The sale of the Czech division would boost core
capital to 10.5 percent at the cost of reducing return on equity
to about 11 percent, he estimated. KBC said in July it would
retain full ownership of Czech banking unit CSOB AS, its most
profitable business in Eastern Europe.  “When you sell an asset, there are always two sides of the
coin,” Stephane Leunens, a spokesman for KBC, said in a
telephone interview. “We focus on de-risking the company while
trying to generate sufficient growth in our core markets.”  Philippe Bodereau, head of European credit research at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in London, said in a telephone
interview that European banks are becoming “slimmer, less
global” and “more utility-like.” They will be “better credit
investments than equity investments,” he said.  Deutsche Bank, which needs to plug a 3.2 billion-euro
capital shortfall by the middle of next year, said last month it
is reviewing all options, including a sale, for most of its
asset-management unit, a business that CEO Josef Ackermann built
up over the last decade to help mitigate the bank’s reliance on
investment banking.  Deutsche Bank  The review focuses on “how recent regulatory changes and
associated costs” are affecting the business, Deutsche Bank
said in the Nov. 22 statement. The disposal would exclude the
DWS mutual fund unit in Germany, Europe and  Asia , which the bank
said was “a core part” of its offering to consumers. The
review will be conducted “thoroughly and carefully” said
Deutsche Bank spokesman Klaus Winker, declining further comment.  Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal’s largest publicly traded
lender, sold its stake in  Brazil ’s  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  for about
$1 billion and part of its stake in Denmark’s Saxo Bank A/S this
year.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , the country’s second-biggest
bank by market value, is considering options for Bank Millennium
SA, Poland’s seventh-largest lender, including a sale. The
Porto-based lender needs to raise 1.7 billion euros to meet
regulatory targets.  Banco Comercial  The Bradesco sale doesn’t affect the operation’s
performance in Brazil and the bank’s loan portfolio in that
country is growing, Paulo Padrao, a spokesman for Espirito Santo
said. Banco Comercial aims to “extract the maximum value” out
of operations in Central and Eastern Europe, Erik Burns, a
spokesman for the bank, said.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the Netherlands’s biggest financial-services
firm, agreed in July to sell most of its Latin American
insurance unit for about 2.6 billion euros to a group led by
Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA, a Colombian investment
firm.  “If they raise capital by selling crown jewels, the market
will reward them in the short term because they’ll meet the
regulator’s timeframe,” said Will James, who runs the 632
million-pound SLI European Equity Income Fund at Edinburgh-based
Standard Life Plc. “That begs the longer-term question: How do
you grow in an environment where customers are unwilling to
borrow. That’s the missing piece from the puzzle. In a low-
growth or no-growth environment, banks that have sold good
assets will continue to struggle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 