-- 
Euro Supported as Banks Divest, Brown Brothers’s Chandler Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-12-13T17:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/euro-supported-as-banks-divest-brown-brothers-s-chandler-says-tom-keene.html
European banks may be selling assets
in Asia as prices on sovereign-debt holdings fall, driving down
stocks in emerging-market countries and supporting the euro,
according to Marc Chandler of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “One of the reasons the euro has been fairly firm has
partly been that European banks are thought to be repatriating
money from the other  emerging markets ,” Chandler, chief
currency strategist in  New York , said today in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“Ironically, the deeper the hole gets in  Europe , the more money
they have to bring back into Europe.”  Taiwan’s Taiex Index of shares has lost 23 percent this
year, and  South Korea ’s Kospi Index has declined 9 percent,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has lost 1.2 percent.  The 17-nation euro has lost 0.7 percent in 2011, while the
dollar has appreciated 1.4 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies.  “When you look at the Asian market, you’re really struck
by how much money has left,” Chandler said. “Think about South
Korea and Taiwan.”  Europe owns about 10 trillion euros ($13 trillion) of
foreign assets such as factories, stocks and bonds that it might
sell to help ease its debt crisis, Chandler said.  “Why should people be loaning them money when they can
sell off those assets?” he said. “They’re reluctant to sell
off those assets, yet it seems to me that they have some assets
that other countries would want to buy, say Chinese banks or
U.S. banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  