-- 
European Stocks Advance on German Confidence, Spanish Debt Sale

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-13T16:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/european-stock-index-futures-fall-bhp-billiton-rio-tinto-eon-may-move.html
European stocks climbed, rebounding
from their biggest slide in three weeks, as Spain sold more
securities than it had planned at a debt auction and a report
showed that investor confidence in  Germany  improved.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and  BP Plc (BP/)  gained more than 1.5
percent, dragging a gauge of oil producers higher. Banks and
insurers limited gains on the  Stoxx 600  with  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, the largest lenders in Spain and  France ,
respectively, dropping at least 1.5 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.5 percent to 237.30 at
the close. The gauge pared an advance of as much as 1.2 percent
as Reuters reported that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
rejected increasing the upper limit for the funds held by
 Europe ’s planned permanent rescue facility, citing sources in
Merkel’s ruling coalition. The gauge has still  declined 14
percent this year  amid concern the euro area’s sovereign-debt
debt crisis will derail the global economic recovery.  “Demand is obviously not declining as strongly as
observers might have thought after the significant drops of
orders in the third quarter,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist
at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in Frankfurt. “This eases fears that the
German economy is hit by an uncertainty shock similar to 2008.
However, we do not believe that the ZEW will swing onto an
upward trend soon.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western-
European markets. France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 0.4 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index lost 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
advanced 1.2 percent.  German Investor Confidence  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said that its
index of  German investor and analyst expectations , which aims to
predict developments six months in advance, posted a reading of
minus 53.8 in December. That was better than the  median estimate 
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Spain  sold 4.94 billion euros ($6.5 billion) of 12- and 18-
month bills, the Bank of Spain said, compared with the maximum
target of 4.25 billion euros the Treasury set for the sale.  A U.S. Commerce Department report showed that  retail sales 
in the world’s largest economy increased 0.2 percent in
November, a slower pace than the 0.6 percent rate that
 economists had predicted .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-
making colleagues meet today to discuss the outlook for an
economy that has strengthened since their November gathering,
lowering the  jobless rate  to 8.6 percent from 9 percent. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  will release a statement at about
2:15 p.m. Washington time.  Dec. 9 Accord  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that it will
review the ratings of European Union nations because Dec. 9’s
summit accord produced few new measures to tackle the debt
crisis. The region’s leaders agreed at the meeting in Brussels
to channel 200 billion euros through the  International Monetary
Fund  to increase the resources available for future bailouts.  Fitch Ratings , without taking any action, said after the
close of European trading yesterday that the summit did little
to ease pressure on Europe’s sovereign-bond ratings.  “We’re in a situation that needs more time to be solved,”
said Philipp Musil, who helps manage about $11 billion at Semper
Constantia Privatbank AG in Vienna. “Politicians have to set up
the right framework and the right rules. We need big
decisions.”  Oil Companies Rally  Shell rose 2.1 percent to 2,308.5 pence and BP advanced 1.7
percent to 452.25 pence. The companies are  Europe’s two largest
oil producers. (RDSA)  Crude oil briefly surged above $100 a barrel.  Santander retreated 1.5 percent to 5.64 euros and BNP
Paribas lost 2.5 percent to 30.09 euros, following the report
that Merkel will keep the current cap on the European Stability
Mechanism, which comes into force in the middle of next year.  Commerzbank AG sank 4.6 percent to 1.17 euros after
Germany’s  Finance Ministry  denied a Reuters report that it’s in
talks with the  country’s second-largest lender  to offer state
assistance, saying that communication between the government and
the bank doesn’t go beyond the “exchange of information.”  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  added 3.3 percent to 18.90 euros in Paris
after Deutsche Bank upgraded the publisher to “buy” from
“hold.”  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  increased 4.4 percent to 40
euros. Earlier, Manager Magazin reported that the German Cartel
Office had allowed Liberty Global Inc. to buy Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg. The Cartel Office subsequently denied it had
approved the deal.  K+S AG  added 2.4 percent to 34.59 euros as Vale SA, the
world’s second-biggest mining company by market value, paid 2.08
billion reais ($1.1 billion) to increase its stake in fertilizer
producer Vale Fertilizantes SA amid strong growth in
agriculture.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  slid 3.9 percent to 1,514 pence for its
biggest drop since March. The owner of Premier Inn and Costa
Coffee shops reported a slowdown in revenue growth as the U.K.
hotel market weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  