-- 
Euro Weakens to 11-Month Low Versus Dollar

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-13T18:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/euro-weakens-to-lowest-level-since-january.html
The euro fell to an 11-month low
against the dollar on concern European leaders won’t agree on
ways to expand the region’s rescue capacities as debt-strapped
nations struggle to fund their deficits.  The 17-nation currency dropped against most of its major
counterparts after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told German
coalition lawmakers that the 500 billion euro ($654 billion) cap
on  Europe ’s planned permanent bailout fund will stay in place,
two officials with knowledge of the discussion said. The dollar
declined against the yen before the  Federal Reserve  holds a
meeting today amid speculation officials will maintain their
pledge to keep borrowing costs at almost zero.  “You continue to see strains within the euro group,” said
 John McCarthy , managing director of  currency trading  at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in New York. “A division means a lower euro. The euro
was already a little weaker and once we got convincingly through
$1.3170, it dropped more.”  The euro dropped 0.7 percent to $1.3094 at 1:32 p.m. in New
York, touching $1.3057, the lowest level since Jan. 12. It
dropped 0.8 percent to 101.98 yen, touching the lowest since
Oct. 6. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to 77.88 yen.  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent after
gaining as much as 1.1 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
 CRB Index  of raw materials rose 0.8 percent.  The Norwegian krone and  Sweden ’s krona slid the most
against the dollar among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The krone dropped 1.3 percent to 5.9137 per dollar
and the krona weakened 1.1 percent against the greenback to
6.9521.  Merkel, during a meeting of her Christian Democratic caucus
in Berlin today, confirmed the limit on the European Stability
Mechanism as agreed by European Union leaders at a summit last
week, the officials said on condition of anonymity because the
talks are behind closed doors.  “The reluctance to raise the ceiling of the permanent
bailout fund is like taking candy from a baby,” said Tommy Molloy, chief dealer at FX Solutions, a currency brokerage, in
Saddle River,  New Jersey . “The very fact that there is any sort
of reluctance to fix any problem as it arises suggests that the
consensus that we thought was going to start with the EU summit
last week really isn’t there.”  Euro Accord  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency, adding 200 billion
euros to their current bailout fund and tightening rules to curb
future debts. They also agreed to move up the creation of the
ESM and said that by March the EU will reassess plans to cap the
overall lending of the ESM and the temporary fund at 500 billion
euros.  For the time being,  Germany  deflected a move to grant the
ESM a banking license, which would enable it to multiply its
firepower by borrowing from the ECB.  The euro’s tumble below its weakest levels against the
dollar reached during October and November suggests the 17-
nation currency may weaken to its lowest level this year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  A break below $1.3047, the 61.8 percent Fibonacci
retracement level from a four-year low reached in June 2010, may
send the shared currency to the weakest this year, according to
Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst with
JPMorgan. The 2011 low is $1.2867, reached on Jan. 10.  Price Swings  Implied volatility  for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations dropped to 12.75 percent from a high this year of 15.77
percent, reached Sept. 22, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index.  “There are increased illiquid markets through the year
end,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in  New York . “A lot of
people that are staying on the sidelines until January.”  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars rose to
the highest in two weeks, according to money-market indicators.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 128 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate. It has widened by 19
basis points since Dec. 8, when Europe’s leaders met in Brussels
to address the region’s debt crisis.  The euro rose earlier after the European bailout fund held
its first auction of bills, attracting bids for more than three
times the amount of securities that it sold.  Funding Costs  The European Financial Stability Facility sold 1.97 billion
euros of 91-day bills at an average yield of 0.222 percent, the
Bundesbank said today. The sale was its first fund-raising since
European leaders agree on a closer fiscal accord and additional
resources to combat the region’s debt crisis at a summit in
Brussels last week.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to minus 53.8 from a three-year low of minus 55.2 in
November. Economists forecast a drop to minus 55.8, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The shared currency has fallen 1.9 percent in the past
month, the most among 10 developed-nation currencies, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has
strengthened 3.6 percent, the best performance, and the yen has
advanced 2.6 percent.  Fed policy makers will keep their target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent at today’s gathering, according to a
Bloomberg News  survey .  U.S.  retail sales  rose in November at the slowest pace in
five months, indicating faster job growth may be needed to spark
the biggest part of the economy.  The 0.2 percent gain in sales followed a 0.6 percent
advance in October that was more than initially reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 0.6 percent November increase, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Purchases
excluding automobiles also rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  