-- 
Bailout Fund Sells Maximum Target at First Bill Sale; Bid-to-Cover 3.2

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T13:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/europe-s-bailout-fund-sells-2-6-billion-91-day-bills-at-yield-of-0-22-.html
The European Financial Stability
Facility sold the maximum amount of bills at its first auction
of short-dated securities as the bailout fund seeks to enhance
its ability to respond to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The EFSF issued 1.97 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of 91-day
bills at an average yield of 0.2222 percent, the Bundesbank said
today in a statement. Investors bid for 3.2 times the amount
sold, according to data from the German central bank. The euro
and Italian government notes rose immediately after the sale.  “This programme will not only extend our range of issues
to the short-term, but it will increase the flexibility of the
whole funding strategy,” Christophe Frankel, deputy chief
executive officer of the EFSF, said in an e-mailed statement.
The Luxembourg-based fund “aims to hold regular bill auctions
and the calendar for 2012 is expected to be released early next
year,” the EFSF said.  The EFSF sells debt to finance rescue loans extended to
Europe’s high debt and deficit nations.  The yield on its bills compared with a rate of minus 0.08
percent on similar-maturity German securities and zero on Dutch
debt.  “With three-month EFSF bills yielding a decent amount
above where Dutch bills trade, it was no surprise that some
excess cash found its way there,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-
income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London .  Euro-area leaders agreed last week on a blueprint for a
closer fiscal union, seeking to prevent Spain and  Italy  from
being engulfed by troubles that forced  Greece  to seek an initial
rescue in April 2010, pushed Ireland and  Portugal  into aid
programs over the ensuing year and led to a second Greek bailout
in late October.  Italian two-year note yields were 22 basis points lower at
5.63 percent at 1:35 p.m. London time. The euro rose as much as
0.4 percent to $1.3237 before trading little changed at $1.3183.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  