-- 
Hewlett-Packard General Counsel Michael Holston to Leave Company

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-12-13T01:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hewlett-packard-general-counsel-michael-holston-to-leave-company.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s general
counsel is leaving the company and a search for his replacement
is under way, the world’s largest computer maker said today.  Holston, who joined the Palo Alto, California-based company
in 2007, is departing to pursue other opportunities, Hewlett-
Packard said in a  statement . David Healy, a partner at Fenwick &
West LLP, will act as interim general counsel while the computer
maker searches for a new top lawyer.  Meg Whitman , who succeeded Leo Apotheker as Hewlett-
Packard’s chief executive officer on Sept. 22, is taking steps
to stabilize the company after a series of moves by her
predecessor that pushed down the stock price almost by half.
Michael Thacker, a company spokesman, said that he wasn’t aware
of any position Holston would next take, and that Holston and
Whitman have a “mutual respect.”  On Oct. 27, Whitman decided to keep Hewlett-Packard’s PC
division in-house after her predecessor said he would explore a
spinoff. On Dec. 9, she said she would release the company’s
WebOS operating system to an open-source project.  Holston leaves as Hewlett-Packard is engaged in litigation
with rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  over the software company’s plan to stop
developing products for  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chip, which
Hewlett-Packard uses in some servers. A trial may take place
next year.  On his watch, the company also fielded shareholder lawsuits
related to the severance package for former CEO  Mark Hurd , who
resigned in August 2010 after the company found he had violated
its business conduct standards.  Holston joined Hewlett-Packard from the law firm Morgan
Lewis & Bockius LLP in February 2007. Before that, he was a
criminal prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Philadelphia, according to the  press release  announcing his
hiring.  Hewlett-Packard declined 1.6 percent to $27.34 today at the
New York close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  