-- 
Mulcaire Asked News Corp. for $1.2 Million to Identify Hackers

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T17:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ex-news-corp-hacker-mulcaire-s-trial-seeking-legal-fees-begins-in-london.html
The British private eye jailed in
2007 for hacking into celebrities’ voice mails for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World tabloid demanded 750,000 pounds ($1.2 million)
from the company for information about his activities.  Glenn Mulcaire  requested the money in June 2010 in exchange
for providing News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit with the names
of reporters who instructed him to hack phones, the private
investigator’s lawyer said at a trial today in London. The
company didn’t pay the sum.  Mulcaire is a defendant in about 60 civil lawsuits filed by
victims and a parallel Court of Appeal case. He sued News
Corp.’s U.K. unit over claims it shouldn’t have stopped paying
his legal fees in July, after British lawmakers accused the
company of seeking to buy Mulcaire’s silence.  “Despite the rhetoric of parliamentarians, there is
nothing exotic, unusual or improper in the arrangements” to pay
his legal fees, Mulcaire’s lawyer, Benjamin Williams, said at
the trial today. When both an employer and an employee have
acted illegally, “it is not remarkable to find the employer
paying its employee’s legal costs.”  Mulcaire, who was jailed in 2007 after pleading guilty to
phone-hacking offenses, was arrested again last week as part of
a new police probe of the scandal, which triggered the closure
of the tabloid in July. Mulcaire’s lawyer also said today that
the private detective took instructions from Ian Edmondson, a
former news editor who was one of the first people arrested
after police started the new investigation in January.  Royal Family Hacking  Before today, Mulcaire was only known to have hacked phones
on behalf the tabloid’s former royal reporter  Clive Goodman , who
was also jailed in 2007. The men admitted intercepting phone
messages meant for members of Prince Charles’ staff and several
other public figures.  Edmondson’s lawyer, Eddie Parladorio, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Another Mulcaire lawyer, Sarah Webb, said at the trial that
Mulcaire demanded the money because he felt he was being
mistreated by the company compared to other people associated
with the phone-hacking scandal.  News International’s lawyer, Alain Choo-Choy, said the
company agreed to pay Mulcaire’s legal costs and potential
damage awards against him as long as he assisted them, and that
the agreement could be withdrawn at any time.  The company needed the information “to understand the full
extent of Mr. Mulcaire’s voice-mail interception activities and
consequently” the publisher’s “potential exposure in the
voice-mail interception litigation,” Choo-Choy said in court
papers.  Dowler Voice Mails  The trial began a day after a judge-led inquiry into the
ethics of the British media heard police retract one of the most
damaging claims against Mulcaire -- that he deleted the voice
mails of murdered school girl Milly Dowler while she was still
missing in 2002, giving her parents false hope she was alive.  While the Dowler claim isn’t related to a lawsuit, a
Guardian newspaper article about the hacking in July resulted in
News Corp. shutting the 168-year-old tabloid to help contain
public outrage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  