-- 
Ex-News Corp. Lawyer Says Findings on E-Mails Would Be Different

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-12-13T14:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ex-news-corp-lawyer-says-findings-on-e-mails-would-be-different.html
A lawyer who reviewed e-mails about
phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World told a media
inquiry that he would not have cleared the tabloid of wrongdoing
if he had seen all of the e-mails submitted by the company.  Lawrence Abramson, the former Harbottle & Lewis lawyer who
determined in 2007 and that the e-mails didn’t support
allegations of widespread phone hacking, said his staff didn’t
show him all of the 2,500 e-mails. He told the media inquiry
that if he had seen all of the material, his analysis would be
“different.”  Harbottle & Lewis’s review was one of three “pillars”
News Corp. officials, including Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , said
they relied on when denying that phone-hacking had gone beyond a
single reporter and private investigator at the News of the
World. Revelations in July that the paper accessed messages on a
dead school girl’s mobile phone, led the company to close the
168-year-old weekly tabloid.  Testifying before the so-called Leveson Inquiry in  London 
today, Abramson was asked by Robert Jay, counsel to the inquiry,
about a selection of 2003 e-mails that were never brought to his
attention by subordinates during his 2007 review.  “Have you since seen the 2003 e-mails?” Jay asked him.
“Yes,” Abramson replied.  “Had you seen those e-mails back in May 2007 would your
advice have been the same or different?” Jay continued.  “Different,” Abramson answered.  Goodman’s claims  Abramson was asked by News Corp.’s U.K. unit to review the
e-mails after the News of the World royal family reporter
convicted of phone hacking,  Clive Goodman , asked for his job
back in 2007.  Goodman said, as part of his bid to reclaim his position,
that phone hacking was widely accepted among editors at the
paper. In response, News International’s director of human
resources gathered a series of e-mails between Goodman and some
editors for review.  Jonathan Chapman, a lawyer for the News International unit,
asked Abramson, then with Harbottle & Lewis, to review the 2,500
e-mails to determine whether or not there was any merit to
Goodman’s claim.  Abramson testified today that several subordinates reviewed
the bulk of the e-mails and he only looked at a small subset
called to his attention by Chapman. He ultimately sent an
opinion to the company saying that the e-mails tended to support
News International’s view that Goodman’s claims had no merit.  While Harbottle’s review was limited to the assertions made
by Goodman, Murdoch and his son James, former chief executive
officer of News International, told U.K. lawmakers this summer
that they relied on the law firm’s findings to buttress their
claims that phone hacking at News of the World was limited to a
“rogue reporter.”  Harbottle & Lewis told parliament that the 2007 exercise
was never intended to be used for the larger purpose of
defending News of the World against charges of phone hacking. 