-- 
Ex-Siemens Executives Charged in $1 Billion Argentine ID Card Bribe Scheme

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-13T20:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ex-siemens-executives-charged-in-argentine-id-bribery-scheme-1-.html
Eight former executives at  Siemens
AG ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, were charged by the
U.S. with conspiring to bribe Argentine government officials to
land a $1 billion contract to make national  identity cards .  The U.S. said the former executives ran a decade-long
scheme to pay more than $100 million in bribes to officials
including cabinet ministers and presidents to win the contract,
and to cover their tracks so the fraud wouldn’t be exposed.  The case showed “corruption on an absolutely stunning
scale,” Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer said in a call
with reporters today. “This is the first time we have so many
defendants charged with this fraud.”  The defendants in the criminal case are Uriel Sharef, 67, a
former member of the managing board of Munich-based Siemens;
Herbert Steffen, 74, Andres Truppel, 57, Ulrich Bock, 68,
Eberhard Reichert, 74, Stephan Signer, 51, Carlos Sergi, 78, and
Miguel Czysch, 79.  The counts against the former officials include conspiracy
to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the wire-fraud
statute, money laundering conspiracy and wire fraud, according
to an indictment unsealed today in  Manhattan  federal court.  SEC Complaint  A ninth executive, Bernd Regendantz, was named in a related
complaint filed today by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and not charged with a crime. Czysch and Reichert,
who were charged criminally, aren’t named as defendants in the
SEC complaint, which was also filed in Manhattan federal court.  None of them are in U.S. custody. In a call with reporters
today, Breuer declined to say whether they will be extradited to
the U.S.  “The company is not indicted,” said Alexander Becker, a
Siemens spokesman. “We can’t comment on proceedings against
individuals.”  The SEC claims that executives of Siemens and its Argentine
subsidiary bribed officials in  Argentina  from 1996 to 2007.  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement, called it the largest action his agency has brought
against people accused of bribing foreign officials.  Prosecutors claimed the defendants channeled payments
through conduit companies in off-shore locations including the
Bahamas,  British Virgin Islands , the  Cayman Islands ,  Panama ,
Switzerland and Uruguay. They disguised the bribes through
deceptive accounting and the use of phony consulting agreements
and fraudulent invoices, the government claimed.  High-Ranking Officials  Sergi, an Argentine businessman with access to high-ranking
officials, served as a conduit between Siemens and members of
the country’s government, according to the indictment. The
complaint refers to at least eight Argentine officials, who
aren’t named.  In one incident, Bock, a former Siemens executive who also
worked as a consultant for the company, withdrew $10 million
from Siemens general-purpose accounts in Germany, then
transported the cash across the border into  Switzerland , where
he deposited the money into Swiss bank accounts to be
transferred to Argentine office-holders.  The group also filed fraudulent arbitration proceedings in
Switzerland and the U.S., to provide a false justification for
the money paid out in bribes.  According to the indictment, Argentina solicited bids for
creating the citizen IDs in 1994. Siemens won the contract in
1998.  Fortune Global 50  “This is the first time we’ve charged a board member of a
Fortune Global 50 company” with FCPA violations, Breuer said.
“This was really one scheme that really began back in ‘97, ‘98,
when the defendants and others at Siemens determined they’d get
this contract any way they could,” he said  Breuer said that more than $25 million in bribe money was
laundered through the U.S. banking system.  Steffen’s attorney, Steffen Ufer, said that his client
denies wrongdoing and that he settled an investigation of the
same issues with prosecutors in Munich.  Sharef’s lawyer, Heiko Lesch, and Hans Dieter Gross, who
represents Bock, declined to comment.  Jan Olaf Leisner, who represents Truppel, and Eberhard
Zeeb, Signer’s lawyer, didn’t immediately reply to e-mails
seeking comment.  “He acted honorably at all points in the investigation and
in the best interest of Siemens, where he continues to work, and
he will not be named criminally,” Regendantz’s lawyer, Nicholas
De Feis, said in a phone interview.  National ID Cards  The defendants are accused of bribing Argentine officials
including two presidents and cabinet ministers in two
administrations to win a contract to make national ID cards --
“Documentos Nacionales de Identidad” in Spanish -- for every
citizen of the country of more than 40 million people.  “After paying bribes to obtain it, Siemens was awarded the
DNI contract in 1998,” the SEC said in its complaint. “Later,
after a change in Argentine political administrations resulted
in the DNI contract being suspended, then canceled, Siemens paid
additional bribes in a failed effort to bring the contract back
into force.”  Siemens pleaded guilty three years ago to violating U.S.
anti-corruption laws and agreed to pay $1.6 billion to settle
bribery probes in the U.S. and  Germany .  The criminal case is U.S. v. Sharef, 11-01056, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
civil case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sharef,
11-CV-9073, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  ----With assistance from Thom Weidlich in New York,  Richard Weiss  in  Frankfurt , Karin Matussek in Berlin and Joshua Gallu in
 Washington . Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Fred Strasser  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  