-- 
Texas Asks to Delay Candidate Deadlines While Court Weighs Redistricting

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-13T01:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/texas-asks-to-delay-candidate-deadlines-while-court-weighs-redistricting.html
Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott 
asked a federal court to delay a Dec. 15 candidate filing
deadline for state legislative and congressional races while the
U.S. Supreme Court reviews new election maps.  Texas  is fighting to prevent its 2012 legislative and
congressional primary elections from using voter maps drawn by a
three-judge federal panel in San Antonio last month. The judges
created interim maps for next year’s elections after districts
drawn by the Republican-controlled Texas Legislature were
challenged by the U.S. Justice Department and Hispanic voting
activists as racially biased.  “Candidates cannot file for office, and election officials
cannot proceed with their duties unless usable electoral
districts are in place,” Abbott said in today’ filing.  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed Dec. 9 to hear Abbott’s
emergency appeal on whether the lower-court panel overstepped
its authority by creating districts that largely disregarded the
Legislature’s maps. The high court blocked use of the judges’
maps in  Texas ’s legislative and congressional races until
sometime after a Jan. 9 hearing in  Washington .  Once workable electoral districts are in place, candidate
filing can resume “immediately,” Abbott said. Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , who is seeking the Republican nomination for
president, would be a candidate in the primary, now set for
March 6.  Statehouse, Congress  As the Supreme Court review only affects Texas’s statehouse
and congressional elections, Abbott hasn’t asked to delay
municipal and school board primary elections. Voting rights
activists complain that splitting up the primaries will require
state and local governments to hold twice as many elections,
which they can’t afford during a  budget crisis  that has already
forced deep cuts in education and health care spending.  “Two primaries will cause there to be at least six
elections from the first primary to the November general
election,” Luis Roberto Vera Jr., lawyer for the League of
United Latin American Citizens, said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in  San Antonio . “It is neither practical nor cost
effective to place this burden on the taxpayers and the local
county governments. Where is the money to come from?”  Vera said the county that includes San Antonio, spends
roughly $300,000 to mail new voter registration cards and
military ballots for a single election. That process must be
repeated for every election and each time boundaries are
redrawn.  ‘Voter Fatigue’  “Multiply that times each county in the state to whatever
the individual costs to each county, and we are talking about
millions of dollars,” Vera said in the filing. “Voter fatigue
is also an important factor for the court’s consideration.”  Texas gained four new congressional seats after adding
nearly 4.3 million new residents since 2000. Hispanics comprised
about 65 percent of that increase, according to the 2010  U.S.
Census .  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate cases
are Perry v. Perez, 11A520 (state house map); Perry v. Perez,
11A521 (state senate map); Perry v. Perez, 11A536 (Congressional
map); U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 