-- 
Texas, Colorado Drillers Must Disclose Fracking Chemicals

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-12-13T21:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/texas-drillers-to-disclose-chemicals-used-in-fracturing-1-.html
Texas and  Colorado  approved rules
today requiring oil and natural-gas operators to report the
chemical ingredients used in new hydraulically fractured wells
beginning next year.  The  Texas Railroad Commission , which oversees the industry
in the state, said any well receiving an initial drilling permit
beginning Feb. 1 will be subject to the new chemical-disclosure
rules, according to an e-mailed statement today.  The  Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission  will
require similar reporting two months later, Dave Neslin,
director of the commission, said today in a telephone interview.
Both require the operators to report chemicals to the public
website FracFocus.org.  Colorado also said if  FracFocus  doesn’t make additional
searching features available on its website by February 2013,
the commission will offer that on its own website, Neslin said.  “In many ways, the Colorado rule can serve as the model
for states across the nation,” said Matt Watson, a senior
energy policy manager at the  Environmental Defense Fund  in
Washington D.C. “That’s a big deal. Making this information
available in user-friendly formats is an important
advancement.”  Increasing Demand  Demand for fracking has tripled over the past five years as
operators use more  rigs  to drill horizontal wells to chase
rising energy prices on land rather than in expensive deep-water
projects. Environmental groups have said the technique has
tainted drinking water in states such as  Pennsylvania , where
4,100 wells have been drilled.  Before the rule passed, operators in both states were
voluntarily reporting chemicals to FracFocus for about half of
all wells being completed with the so-called fracking technique,
the two commissions said.  The Texas Railroad Commission was directed to establish a
disclosure process in a bill approved by a vote of 137-8 in the
Texas legislature on May 29. Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
kicked off his state’s pursuit of mandatory chemical disclosure
in the summer, Neslin said. Other gas-producing states including
 Wyoming , Colorado,  Arkansas  and  Michigan  also require companies
to reveal some of the materials used in fracking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  