-- 
MF Global Probe May Weigh Illegal Use of Funds

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-12-13T19:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mf-global-probe-said-to-weigh-illegal-use-of-funds.html
Regulators are investigating whether
 MF Global Holdings Ltd.  intentionally used customer funds to
cover the bankrupt firm’s margin payments on European government
bond trades, bolstering their ability to retrieve the missing
money, people with knowledge of the probe said.  Investigators including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the  Justice Department , the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the  bankruptcy (LEHMQ)  trustee are reviewing the
brokerage’s accounts seeking proof of fraud, which would allow
them to recover some of the lost $1.2 billion, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the probe is ongoing.
Unless regulators find illegal activity, margin payments on
repurchase trades can’t be returned under bankruptcy law, said
Lauren Teigland-Hunt, a lawyer who has represented money
managers in the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy.  “It has to be actual intent to defraud, and that’s a high
bar,” said Teigland-Hunt, managing partner at Teigland-Hunt LLP
in New York. “The whole goal is to try to ensure that if you’re
a participant in the market and receive payment of margin, that
won’t be reversed on you if a customer goes down.”  MF Global’s failure and the customer-funds deficit, which
scuttled a last-minute acquisition that would have averted the
eighth-largest bankruptcy, are the focus of congressional
hearings in which  Jon Corzine  has made his first public comments
since quitting as chief executive officer on Nov. 4. Corzine,
64, who engineered the $6.3 billion in European bets, told the
House Agriculture Committee on Dec. 8 that he didn’t know what
happened to the missing money.  Corzine told the Senate Agriculture Committee today that he
“never gave any instructions to misuse customer funds” and
never intended that anyone at the New York-based firm do so. The
agriculture committees in the House and Senate preside over the
CFTC, which was MF Global’s main regulator.  ‘Suspicious Transaction’  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman at the SEC,  Steve Adamske  of
the CFTC,  Laura Sweeney  of the Justice Department and Diana DeSocio of MF Global all declined to comment.  James Giddens, the bankruptcy trustee, is looking at all
activity in the final days of MF Global to locate the missing
money. He found “suspicious transactions” in the days before
the Oct. 31 filing, James Kobak, a lawyer for the trustee, told
the presiding judge in the case last week. Even if all the
available money at U.S. depositories is recovered, there will
still be “a significant shortfall” of as much as $1.2 billion,
Kobak said on Dec. 8 at the House hearing.  Doomed Sale  “Our primary focus is how much money is missing, where did
it go, and do we have a legal way of getting it back?” Kobak
said.  Corzine, who hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, said at
the hearing last week he was “stunned” to learn on Oct. 30
that MF Global couldn’t account for hundreds of millions of
dollars in client money.  “I remain deeply concerned about the impact this has on MF
Global customers and others,” said Corzine, the ex-Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman and former senator and governor
from  New Jersey . “I simply do not know where the money is.”  The missing money doomed a sale of MF Global’s futures
brokerage to Interactive Brokers Group Inc.,  Hans Stoll , a board
member of the potential acquirer, said last month.  One working theory for the missing money is that it was
taken from customer accounts and not replaced with equal
collateral, as mandated by law, according to the people familiar
with the investigation. Then, they said, after the funds were
moved to the broker-dealer unit of MF Global they may have been
used to pay margin on the  repurchase agreements .  Crisis of Confidence  Under U.S. law, futures brokers are required to keep
customer money segregated from their own accounts so that if a
firm fails its clients can quickly move positions and cash to a
new company. MF Global’s bankruptcy is “unprecedented” in that
for the first time, customer funds have gone missing,  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  said
at the hearing.  Disclosures on the extent of Corzine’s wagers on debt from
countries including Italy and  Spain  led to a crisis of
confidence in the firm in October, culminating with its Chapter
11 filing at the end of the month. In the week before it entered
bankruptcy, MF Global  plummeted  67 percent and Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings reduced its credit rankings to junk.  Cut to Junk  MF Global’s counterparties may have demanded more
collateral if the price of the underlying bonds in its European
sovereign-debt trades declined or if the firm had its credit
rating cut. The downgrades on Oct. 27 “sparked an increase in
margin calls” that were “threatening overall liquidity,”
 Bradley Abelow , MF Global’s president and chief operating
officer said in the company’s bankruptcy filing.  The trustee will make a legal determination as to whether
it can recover customer funds, said  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman
for Giddens. “If we believe there is, we use all legal avenues
available to us,” Jarrell said.  Any payments made from customer accounts may be considered
fraudulent, said David Skeel, a  University of Pennsylvania  law
professor whose research areas include bankruptcy and corporate
law.  Unless fraudulent intent or another overriding legal
principle can be found that trumps the protection of margin
payments under the  liquidation laws , any MF Global customer
funds used for the repo trades would be lost, two of the people
familiar with the probe said.  If the money were recovered, customers may not have top
priority in being repaid, Skeel said.  “I don’t think they would have any special claim,” he
said.  “They would just be treated like general creditors with
respect to fund retrieved, and would have to share with other
general creditors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  