-- 
Facebook Is Said to Ready Its First Foray Into Mobile Ads by End of March

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-12-13T17:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/facebook-is-said-to-ready-its-first-foray-into-mobile-ads-by-end-of-march.html
Facebook Inc. plans its first push
into mobile advertising by the end of March, giving the company
a fresh source of revenue ahead of a possible initial public
offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  An idea being considered is putting Facebook’s Sponsored
Stories ads, which feature friends’ interactions with brands,
within the mobile News Feed, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. The News Feed lets
users view status updates, photos and other content.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, would be playing catch-up in mobile advertising to
Google Inc., Apple Inc. and  Millennial Media Inc.  Facebook’s
potential advantage is that by gathering so much information
about a person’s interests and associates, it can help
advertisers target potential customers more directly than mobile
Web browsers or applications.  Facebook, which boasts more than 800 million users, is
increasing its focus on mobile technology, aiming to take
advantage of the shift to smartphones and tablets. The company
expects its next 1 billion users to come mainly from mobile
devices, rather than desktop computers. More than 350 million
users already access Facebook through their mobile devices,
according to the site.  Later Than Expected?  The company had originally expected to roll out the new
advertising service on mobile devices earlier this year, and the
plan could be delayed again, one of the people said.  Brandon McCormick, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment. Facebook announced a mobile deals service last year
that lets companies reach out to potential customers with
discounts based on location.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company is considering
raising about $10 billion in an IPO that would value the company
at more than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month. The company may file for the IPO before the end
of the year, the person said.  Facebook’s revenue will climb to as high as $6.9 billion in
2012, up from $4.27 billion this year, according to research
firm New York-based  EMarketer Inc.  Almost 90 percent of 2011
sales will come from advertising revenue, the firm estimates.
Facebook also makes money from its Credits business, which takes
a commission on transactions in certain applications, such as
games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  