-- 
FactSet Falls After Subscriber Decline Overshadows Earnings

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-12-13T22:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/factset-falls-after-subscriber-decline-overshadows-earnings-2-.html
FactSet Research Systems Inc. (FDS) , a
provider of financial data to investment managers and banks,
fell the most since August after a decline in subscribers
overshadowed a higher-than-estimated profit forecast.  Customers fell by 1,200 to 46,900 during the fiscal first
quarter, which ended in November, Norwalk, Connecticut-based
FactSet said in a statement today. Avondale Partners LLC
estimated subscribers would increase to 48,719. It was the first
decline versus the prior quarter in nine periods, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. FactSet’s shares lost 6.9 percent to
$88.24 at the close of trading in New York, the biggest drop
since Aug. 8.  Firms that serve banks, brokers and money managers face
less business as the financial industry reduces spending after
the European debt crisis prompted MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s
collapse in October.  Thomson Reuters (TRI)  Corp., a financial news and
data company, is replacing its chief executive officer.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
FactSet and Thomson Reuters.  “While we expected that the headcount reduction in the
securities industry would have a dampening effect on user
growth, we were surprised to see an actual sequential decline,”
Peter Heckmann, a Prairie Village, Kansas-based analyst at
Avondale, said in a telephone interview.  FactSet reported first-quarter profit excluding some items
of $1.02 a share, beating the average analyst estimate of $1 in
a Bloomberg survey. This quarter, earnings will amount to $1.10
to $1.12 a share, compared with the average analyst projection
of $1.02, FactSet said. Revenue will be no more than $200
million in the three-month period ending in February, less than
the average analyst forecast of $200.8 million.  Sell-Side Firms  All of the customer declines last quarter were from sell-
side firms, or brokerages and securities firms, according to
FactSet’s statement. Money managers, or buy-side firms,
increased subscriptions, the company said.  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , told
regulators that 413 employees may be dismissed in  New York City 
as the firm starts 4,500 job cuts announced last week, according
to a Dec. 9  filing  with New York’s Department of Labor.
Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , who announced
the cuts during a Dec. 6 presentation, aims to trim costs amid
slumping revenue and what he called “unprecedented” market
conditions.  Financial firms have suffered from the euro zone’s debt
crisis. Losses on  government bonds  drove MF Global into
bankruptcy on Oct. 31. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 companies fell
27 percent this year through yesterday, heading for the second-
biggest annual decline since 1993. FactSet shares gained 1.1
percent during the same period, while  Thomson Reuters  retreated
28 percent to $26.67.  FactSet is trading at 24.24 times reported profit, 45
percent above the price-to-earnings ratio for the Standard &
Poor’s Midcap 400 Index, according to Bloomberg data. New York-
based Thomson Reuters is valued at 15.33 times earnings.  FactSet’s annual subscription value, a revenue forecast for
the next 12 months based on current services sold to customers,
was $782 million in the quarter that ended Nov. 30, a 13 percent
increase from a year earlier.  “Volatility in the financial markets interrupted short-
term buying patterns from our clients, dampening our ASV growth
this quarter,” Philip Hadley, FactSet’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  