-- 
Family Offices Seek to Shield Rich Clients From SEC Disclosure

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/family-offices-seek-shield-from-sec-disclosure.html
Family offices in the U.S. are
trying to avoid regulation that would force them to reveal
financial details about their privacy-conscious clients.  Firms that primarily manage the wealth of a single family
must register as investment advisers by March 30, 2012, unless
they qualify for a new exemption from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Registering may entail initial fees of
$50,000, as well as annual compliance costs of $50,000 to
$100,000 or more, according to John Duncan, principal of Duncan
Associates in Chicago, which represents family offices and
private  trust companies . Advisers that register must publicly
disclose assets and identifying information about their
businesses.  “Most of them will do almost anything to avoid having to
register,” said Martin Lybecker, a partner with Perkins Coie
LLP who represents the Private Investor Coalition Inc., a
lobbying group of family offices. “It’s viewed as incredibly
expensive and of no value to the office.”  There are about 3,000 single-family offices in  North
America  managing $1.2 trillion, according to estimates from
Family Wealth Alliance LLC, a research and consulting firm in
Wheaton,  Illinois , which studies the industry. About 150
multifamily offices oversee an additional $450 billion. Both
types of firms generally provide  investment management  and
financial planning for their clients.  15-Client Rule  The registration requirement stems from the Dodd-Frank Act,
a sweeping overhaul of Wall Street regulation that was passed in
July 2010 with the aim of minimizing the chances of another
financial crisis. The law removed a registration exemption for
offices with fewer than 15 clients and instructed the SEC to
come up with a definition of family offices that should be
excluded from regulation as investment advisers.  Hedge funds  and
private-equity funds that had formerly relied on the 15-client
exclusion, and that manage $150 million or more, must generally
register by the March deadline.  The agency approved a  rule  in June defining offices that
are exempt as meeting three general conditions: They are owned
and controlled by family members, they don’t advertise to the
public as advisers and they provide investment advice only to
family clients who are generally linked by a common ancestor.  For single-family offices, complying with the definition
may mean getting rid of nonfamily investors.  ‘Dutch Uncle’  “It may be the ‘Dutch uncle,’ someone who’s close to the
family but not technically part of the family,” who has to be
removed from the office, said Lybecker, who’s based in
 Washington . “If he’s dating grandma, it may be pretty hard to
tell him he has to leave.”  One office is considering options for ejecting nonfamily
members from a collective fund that invests in private equity,
said David Guin, a partner with Withers Bergman LLP in New York.
The family, which he declined to name citing privacy, may buy
out the investors at a premium or liquidate the fund.  Another office that had been managing a 529 college-savings
account on behalf of the family’s head of security told the
employee he had to transfer management of the account to outside
the office, according to Mark Selinger, a partner with  McDermott
Will & Emery  in New York.  Multifamily offices that had met the previous 15-client
exemption generally must either register or break up their
businesses, said Eileen Foley, managing director of  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. ’s family offices services group.  Duties Under Registration  Advisers that register with the SEC must meet certain
requirements on bookkeeping and on disclosures to clients about
fees and conflicts of interest, and must act as fiduciaries, or
in the best interests of the investors they serve.  The rule may drive more families to fire their in-house
money managers and move investment decisions to an outside
adviser, or a so-called outsourced chief investment officer,
said Mindy Rosenthal, executive director of the Institute for
Private Investors. The percentage of family offices that
outsource their chief investment officer role has about doubled
since 2005, to almost half, according to New York-based IPI.  “If your family office only performs back-office and
concierge services then it’s not an  investment adviser ,” said
Michele Ilene Ruiz, a partner with Sidley Austin LLP in  Chicago .  One Brazilian family that’s a client of Guin started a
family office in the U.S. to house its analysis and
recommendations on U.S. private-equity investments. The family
doesn’t want to register out of concern its security will be
compromised by publicly declaring its assets, so it’s moving the
analysis and recommendation functions out of the U.S. office,
which will now perform information gathering and provide no
investment advice.  Noncompliance Option  Some offices may choose not to register even though they
don’t qualify for the exemption, said Duncan, of Duncan
Associates.  “That’s one of the big options out there: The
noncompliance option,” he said. “There’s a lot of lack of
knowledge out there or thinking that they can just keep their
heads in the sand.”  Family offices that manage small amounts of money for
nonfamily members, such as $50,000 for a housekeeper or other
domestic employee, in trusts that can’t easily be dismantled,
may decide not to register even though the relationship violates
the SEC’s definition, said Nathan Greene, a partner with
Shearman & Sterling LLP in  New York .  “The family office community is generally taking the view
that if you’ve got some money in a particular trust that you
can’t unwind, then it’s inappropriate to register the family
office simply on that basis,” Greene said.  Enforcement Penalties  When unregistered advisers are caught by the SEC they’re
generally told to register and don’t have to pay a fine for the
first offense, said Brian Hamburger, an attorney based in
Englewood,  New Jersey , and the founder of MarketCounsel, which
consults with advisers on compliance issues.  “Our rules are clear on what constitutes a family office
and we will enforce the law as appropriate,”  Kevin Callahan , an
SEC spokesman in Washington, said in an e-mail. He declined to
comment further on enforcement actions the agency might take
against unregistered advisers.  “We are troubled by comment letters we receive by counsel
to some family offices that appear to acknowledge that their
clients were operating as unregistered investment advisers,
although they were not eligible for the private adviser
exemption and had not obtained an exemptive order from us,” the
SEC said in its final rule.  For family office advisers overseen by state securities
regulators, enforcement varies by state, Hamburger said.  State Fines  “If you’re dealing with a state that’s not going out and
conducting regular reviews or examinations, then they’re
probably not going to detect it,” he said.  States generally oversee investment advisers that manage
less than $25 million. Dodd-Frank raised that threshold and
firms that manage from $25 million to $100 million must
generally move from SEC to state registration in 2012.  In  Pennsylvania , a typical penalty is $25,000 for an
individual who has failed to register as a representative of an
adviser firm, plus the cost of the investigation, said Joseph
Minisi, senior counsel for the division of enforcement,
litigation and compliance for the Pennsylvania Securities
Commission.  Instances of unregistered firms are rarer than those of
unregistered individuals, and generally come to the state’s
attention when fraud or another securities-law violation is
involved, Minisi said.  SEC Resources  The average registered investment adviser firm is reviewed
by the SEC less than once every 11 years given the current rate
of examinations, according to a report released in January by
the agency on improving adviser oversight. The rule is one of
more than 90 the SEC was charged with writing as part of the
Dodd-Frank law.  “If the SEC does not receive additional resources, many of
the issues highlighted by the financial crisis and which the
Dodd-Frank Act seeks to fix will not be adequately addressed,”
said SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in  testimony  to the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in July,
according to prepared remarks.  Family offices may apply for an exemptive order if they
don’t meet all points of the SEC’s definition and feel they
should still be exempt, said Sylvie Durham, an attorney in New
York for Greenberg Traurig LLP. It may cost families about
$200,000 in legal fees to apply for an exemptive order,
according to the SEC. Previously granted orders will be honored,
the agency said in its final rule.  Most family offices would rather comply rather than risk an
enforcement action, said Selinger, of McDermott Will & Emery.  “Family offices tend to be very averse to negative
publicity,” he said. “The SEC periodically finds a test case
to say, ‘Hey, we’re serious.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 