-- 
Fed Says U.S. Economy Is ‘Expanding Moderately,’ Policy Remains Unchanged

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-12-13T20:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/fed-says-u-s-economy-is-expanding-moderately-policy-remains-unchanged.html
Federal Reserve policy makers said
the  U.S. economy  is maintaining its expansion even as the global
economy slows, while refraining from taking new actions to lower
borrowing costs.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of its meeting today in Washington. “While
indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market
conditions, the unemployment rate remains elevated.”  Signs of an improving U.S. economy are giving officials
led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke leeway to keep policy unchanged
as they discuss ways to improve how they communicate the likely
future path of interest rates to the public. At the same time,
unemployment at 8.6 percent and risks to global growth from the
European debt crisis may prompt more easing in coming months.  “Any additional stimulus is greatly going to depend on
what happens in Europe or any changes in the U.S. outlook,”
said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  “They will wait for a longer
meeting, maybe in January, to come up with anything regarding
communications.”  Today’s statement reiterated the warning at the Fed’s two
previous meetings that “Strains in global financial markets
continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.” Bernanke said last month that the sentence refers to
the European debt crisis.  Reduced Target Rate  The Fed left unchanged its statement that economic
conditions are likely to warrant “exceptionally low” interest
rates “at least through mid-2013.” The central bank lowered
its target overnight  interest rate  to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008.  Stocks fell after the statement. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.6 percent to 1,229.20 at 3:19 p.m. in  New York 
after rising as much as 1.1 percent. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.96 percent from 2.01 percent late
yesterday.  The central bank said it would continue its exchange of
$400 billion of short-term debt with long-term securities to
lengthen the average maturity of its holdings, a move dubbed
Operation Twist. The Fed also did not alter its policy of
reinvesting its portfolio of maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities.  Expectations ‘Stable’  “Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year, and
longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable,” the
Fed said today. By one measure, inflation has decelerated, based
on the personal consumption expenditures price index excluding
food and energy, the principal indicator the Fed tracks. That
gauge rose 0.07 percent in October from September, the second-
slowest gain in 2011, following a 0.01 percent increase the
prior month.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  dissented for the
second meeting in a row, supporting “additional policy
accommodation,” according to the statement. “There is simply
too much at stake for us to be excessively complacent while the
economy is in such dire shape,” Evans said in a speech last
week in Muncie,  Indiana .  Economists forecast the central bank today would retain its
pledge to hold interest rates near zero through mid-2013 and
forgo launching a new round of asset purchases, according to a
Dec. 7-9 survey of 41 analysts.  None of the economists surveyed forecast that a third round
of quantitative easing, also called QE3, would be announced at
today’s meeting. Thirteen percent saw such a move at the Fed’s
January meeting, and 21 percent anticipated purchases would be
announced in March.  Improvement in Data  Improvement in some U.S. statistics signals growth may be
picking up. The index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9
percent in October, the most since February. A consumer
confidence index from the Conference Board rose in November to
the highest since July. Manufacturing expanded in November at
the fastest pace in five months, according to the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index.  U.S. economic data have outperformed expectations by the
most in nine months. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a
daily measure of whether data reports are better or worse than
economists’ projections, improved to 85.7 on Dec. 2, the highest
since March 9. The index is calculated on a three-month rolling
basis and weighted for the importance of the indicator.  Retail Sales  A report on retail sales today was an exception. Purchases
in November rose 0.2 percent, less than forecast by economists
and the slowest pace in five months, indicating that faster job
growth may be needed to spark the biggest part of the economy.  “There are still significant risks and most of them are
political,”  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“The European politicians need to get their act together and
the same applies to those who live in  Washington .”  The Fed in recent months has been joined by counterparts
around the world in trying to stimulate economies and limit
effects of Europe’s turmoil. The  European Central Bank  and its
counterparts in the U.K. and  China  have all taken steps to ease
monetary policy since the Fed began Operation Twist in
September.  Last week, European leaders agreed after all-night talks to
make loans of as much as 200 billion euros ($264 billion) to the
 International Monetary Fund  to counter the crisis and tightened
rules to curb future debts. Whether the euro is saved may hinge
on support from investors, central bankers and credit-rating
companies.  ‘Forceful’ Steps  Fed policy makers have been stepping up their warnings
about  Europe ’s debt crisis. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
Nov. 29 that Europe needs to take “forceful” steps to quell
fiscal and financial turmoil, and San Francisco Fed President
 John Williams  said the same day that Europe represents the
biggest risk to the global economy.  The next day, the Fed led six central banks in announcing a
half percentage-point cut in the cost of emergency dollar
funding for financial companies. The money comes from the Fed’s
currency-swap lines. The action triggered a stock and bond
rally, and the following week, the ECB’s three-month dollar
lending through the swap lines surged to $50.7 billion from $400
million.  News of the central banks’ swap line agreement helped
propel global stocks to their biggest three-day rally since
March 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 7.6 percent
from Nov. 28 to Nov. 30, the day of the announcement. The MSCI
World Index climbed 7.9 percent in that period.  ‘Ought to Be Fired’  Any further easing by the Fed may be criticized by U.S.
politicians, especially Republicans seeking the party’s
nomination to challenge President  Barack Obama  in 2012. Former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said during a debate last month that
Bernanke is a “large part of the problem” for the economy and
“ought to be fired as rapidly as possible.”  Updated economic forecasts released by the Fed last month
were thrown into question by November’s unexpected drop in the
 unemployment rate  to 8.6 percent, about where Fed policy makers
projected it to be in late 2012. Payrolls increased by 120,000
after a 100,000 gain the prior month that was larger than
previously estimated, Labor Department figures showed Dec. 2.  Still, economists see the U.S. expansion slowing to a 1.9
percent annual pace in the first quarter from 2.8 percent in the
three months ending Dec. 31, based on the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey this month.  “We remain in a slow-growth economy for business in  North
America , and that’s really driven by high unemployment and fear
of the future,” Ronald L. Sargent, CEO of Staples Inc., the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based office-supply chain, said on a
Nov. 15 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  