-- 
Fed Moves Toward Greater Transparency as Congress Pushes, Bernanke Pulls

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/fed-is-moving-toward-transparency-as-congress-pushes-with-bernanke-pulling.html
Whether discussing economic
challenges with soldiers in Texas or seeking disclosure of
policy makers’ goal for inflation, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is moving the U.S. central bank toward openness at a
faster pace than any predecessor.  That path to transparency, marked in part by unprecedented
disclosures of the Fed’s emergency loans that were forced by
Congress and the courts, also includes a series of less
publicized changes in which Bernanke has placed his own stamp on
the central bank’s operations.  Bernanke “has taken the most voluntary steps of any Fed
chairman in history,” said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S.
economist at Morgan Stanley in New York and a former director of
the Division of Monetary Affairs for the Fed Board of Governors.
Most earlier chairmen moved toward openness in monetary policy
only as a result of pressure from politicians or the  Federal
Open Market Committee , he said.  The FOMC, which meets today in  Washington , now publishes
policy makers’ forecasts four times a year, up from two during
the era of former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan . The committee
last month released new data that reveals its changing views
about risk and uncertainty. The release came after Bloomberg
News reported that, in the absence of supporting details, some
traders said the Fed’s September policy statement citing
“significant downside risks” confused markets.  This month, for the first time, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
New York made public a survey on monetary policy, financial
markets and the economy conducted with the 21 government-bond
firms that trade directly with the central bank.  Longer Outlook  Next month, the central bank may begin telegraphing its
medium-term outlook for its main policy rate, the federal funds
rate.  “Participants generally expressed interest in providing
additional information to the public about the likely future
path of the target federal funds rate,” minutes of the FOMC’s
Nov. 1-2 meeting said.  In contrast with Greenspan, who shunned broadcast
interviews during his 1987-2006 term, Bernanke appeared on  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” program in 2009 and 2010. This year, he
began holding quarterly news conferences, a first for a Fed
chairman. Last month, he met with soldiers at Fort Bliss near El
Paso,  Texas , to discuss the economy, part of a series of “town
hall” meetings.  “Democratic principles demand that, as an agent of the
government, a central bank must be accountable in the pursuit of
its mandated goals, responsive to the public and its elected
representatives and transparent in its policies,” Bernanke said
in May 2010.  Response to Crisis  The central bank’s response to the financial crisis of 2008
and 2009 included providing $1.2 trillion in loans to banks and
other companies from an array of emergency programs and the
discount window. The loans drew scrutiny from Congress, which
required the Fed to reveal many of the recipients. Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News, sued the Fed to force the
release of details related to the lending and published a series
of articles about the largest borrowers this year.  Last week, in a  letter  posted on the central bank’s
website, Bernanke said media reports about the loans contained
“egregious errors.” Bloomberg stands by its reporting, Editor
in Chief Matthew Winkler said last week.  Swap Recipients Unnamed  Not all the emergency lending has been revealed; as part of
a currency-swap plan active from 2007 to 2010, the Fed lent
dollars to other central banks, which auctioned them to local
commercial banks. Almost all the end recipients of those loans,
which peaked at $586 billion in December 2008, remain
undisclosed. The Fed revived the swap lines this year to fight
the European debt crisis. Three-month dollar loans through the
 European Central Bank  surged to $50.7 billion last week.  The Fed’s extraordinary monetary policy, in the face of an
18-month recession and a recovery in which the  unemployment rate 
has stayed above 8 percent, has also spurred controversy. The
central bank has kept the benchmark lending rate at about zero
since December 2008.  In decisions questioned by Republican congressional
leaders, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and
House Speaker  John Boehner , the Fed has in several steps
purchased a total of $2.3 trillion in housing and government
debt to try to keep longer term interest rates low.  ‘Through Mid-2013’  In August, the FOMC was more precise than previously in
describing its continuing commitment to monetary stimulus,
pledging to keep the benchmark lending rate around zero “at
least through mid-2013.”  Officials may go farther in January by releasing the
interest-rate assumption that will underpin their three-year
forecast, minutes from the November meeting show.  That would be tantamount to publishing a planned path for
the benchmark lending rate, “the absolute ultimate in
transparency,” said  Laurence Meyer , a former Fed governor who
is now a senior managing director at forecasting firm
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington.  “Doing so would give financial markets virtually
everything they need to understand about how the FOMC would
respond to changes in its economic outlook,” he said.  Economists of Bernanke’s generation were steeped in the
theories of Robert Lucas Jr., Finn Kydland and  Edward Prescott ,
all Nobel Prize winners whose work underscored the importance of
dealing with the public in a transparent and consistent manner.  Public Inflation Goal  As a scholar at  Princeton University , Bernanke applied
those lessons to monetary theory in a 1999 book he co-wrote
advocating an announced inflation goal for the Fed.  “In his view communications actually help monetary policy
in terms of managing market expectations,” said Mark Gertler, a
 New York  University professor who has co-authored research with
the Fed chairman.  Bernanke faces one area where Congress continues to
challenge him on transparency: the Fed’s bank supervision.  So long as the largest banks still have a call on taxpayer-
funded support because they’re considered too big to fail,
regulators owe the public more information about their
decisions, said  Paul Miller , a managing director at FBR Capital
Markets Corp. and a former Fed bank examiner.  “I would love for them to be more transparent” in
supervision, said Miller. “As an investor, do we really know
the true conditions of these institutions?”  Derivatives Transfer  For example, the Fed hasn’t answered all lawmakers’
questions about its role in allowing  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
second-biggest U.S. lender by assets, to transfer derivatives
from its Merrill Lynch unit to a retail-banking division. The
transfers, which the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
disclosed last month, helped reduce collateral payments because
the retail unit has a higher  credit rating  than the Merrill
Lynch subsidiary.  Such transfers to deposit-taking banks have the potential
to put the federal Deposit Insurance Fund on the hook for
losses, so they’re closely regulated. Banks contribute to the
fund, which is also backstopped by taxpayers. The Fed is the
nation’s bank-holding company regulator.  Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and nine other
senators asked Bernanke detailed questions about the Bank of
America transaction in an October letter. The Fed chairman
responded in November. He said he couldn’t answer some of the
questions because they involved “confidential” supervisory
information. He said after an acquisition a financial company
may seek to consolidate some operations such as derivatives in
the bank to “better manage and reduce the risks of the
activity.”  Stress Tests  Fed spokeswoman Michelle Smith said the central bank has
taken some steps to boost transparency in supervision, noting
that the Board of Governors said last month that it will
disclose the results of its stress tests on the 19 largest
financial institutions, such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Citigroup Inc., and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The Federal Reserve will continue to carefully consider
whether additional disclosures would be beneficial,” she said.
“Congress has passed laws which protect the confidentiality of
some information regulators obtain from banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  