-- 
Fed’s Communications Should Reflect an Uncertain World: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/fed-s-communications-should-reflect-an-uncertain-world-view.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve is planning
to change the way it communicates with the public. The aim, as
we understand it, is to explain better what the central bank is
trying to do when, say, it prints hundreds of billions of
dollars in hopes of moving  interest rates  a few tenths of a
percentage point.  This is an excellent idea, as long as the practice doesn’t
inadvertently give investors a false sense of security.  At today’s meeting of the Fed’s open market committee,
officials will iron out details of the new communications
strategy, which is likely to be released early next year. Some
of the expected innovations include clearer statements of the
Fed’s inflation and employment goals, and more information in
quarterly economic forecasts on how it expects to reach those
objectives. Innocuous as the changes may seem, they’re a big
deal for a central bank that, until 1994, didn’t publicly
announce its  interest-rate decisions .  The greater transparency has a number of advantages. For
one, it could help eliminate the kind of market volatility that
arises when investors aren’t sure how the Fed will react to
economic developments, such as an increase in  oil prices  or a
drop in employment. By clarifying its reaction function, the Fed
can avoid becoming a source of instability in itself.  In the current environment, better communication can also
make the Fed’s monetary-policy moves more effective. Consider,
for example, the uncertainty last year over whether the central
bank would follow through on its plan to reduce long-term
interest rates by buying some $600 billion in bonds. If the Fed
had committed in advance to completing the purchases as long as
the  unemployment rate  remained above a certain level, it could
have avoided the confusion that many believe blunted the impact
of the quantitative-easing program.  Dangerous Certainty  Attempts to provide certainty, though, can be dangerous.
If, for example, investors come to expect that the Fed will
always rescue them in times of trouble, they will be more likely
to take on the kinds of risks that invite disaster. During the
housing boom, many investors assumed the Fed would act to
prevent a sharp drop in  home prices  -- a belief that encouraged
them to set the economy up for a bust.  Here, the Fed might want to take a page from the playbook
of the  Bank of England , which has long produced a detailed
 quarterly report  on its forecast for inflation and the economy.
The report contains a section called “key judgements and risks,”
in which the bank clearly states the assumptions on which its
outlook is built, and how they may be wrong. Ideally, the Fed
could use such truth-telling to make sure investor expectations
don’t get out of hand.  We’re all for more communication. It’ll be even better if
what’s being communicated isn’t hubris.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 