-- 
Fewer Immigrant Laws Passed as State Enforcement Challenged in High Court

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-12-13T21:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/fewer-immigrant-laws-passed-as-state-enforcement-challenged-in-high-court.html
State lawmakers introduced more
immigrant-related measures this year than ever before but
succeeded in passing far fewer into law, according to  a report 
released today by the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  More than 1,600 bills were considered in all 50 states and
 Puerto Rico  in 2011, up from 1,400 bills introduced in 46 states
last year. Still, the number of new laws enacted, 197, was the
lowest since 2006.  Lawsuits by immigration advocates and the federal
government against local enforcement efforts may have had a
chilling effect, said Ann Morse, a program director who wrote
the report for the Washington-based non-profit organization.  “The trend is trying to figure out where does the state
role lie in enforcement,” Morse said in a telephone interview.
“When you are cutting  law enforcement , you can’t afford to be
wasting money in an area where you might not have authority.”  The  U.S. Supreme Court  said yesterday it would review a
2010 Arizona law that requires local police to check immigration
status if they have “reasonable suspicion” someone is in the
country illegally. A federal appeals court upheld an injunction
blocking key parts of that law from taking effect in April.  The Arizona law was the model for about 50 measures in
2011, Morse said. Five states adopted versions and all five of
those laws are also tied up in court.  Health Care, College  State immigration proposals deal with a range of topics,
from access to health care to attendance at state colleges. New
laws in Connecticut and  Maryland  make undocumented immigrants
eligible for in-state tuition, bringing to 12 the number that
developed conditions such as state high school graduation to
allow tuition breaks for those not in the country legally. Those
measures were introduced even as the Dream Act, which would
create a path to citizenship for young immigrants who finish
high school and join the military or attend college, has failed
repeatedly in Congress.  Virginia state Senator John Watkins, a Republican who is
co-chairman of the NCSL Task Force on Immigration and the
States, said local efforts to address the issues won’t go away.  “As long as we fail to have a federal solution, state
legislatures will continue the policy debate and develop local
responses, whether it’s verification and authentication or
combating human trafficking,” Watkins said in a statement. “We
need a national solution to relieve the pressure on states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  