-- 
Forint Rebounds From 2-Week Low on Hungary Inflation, IMF Talks

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-13T17:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/forint-rebounds-from-2-week-low-as-hungary-s-inflation-quickens.html
The forint rebounded from a two-week
low after inflation rose more than forecast in November and the
government signaled a larger-than-expected international aid
package.  The currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 303.8 per euro. The
BUX index of shares dropped 1.2 percent to 16,924.89 by the
close in Budapest. The government’s  3-year bonds  fell, lifting
the yield 9 basis points to 8.41 percent, the highest since Dec.
1, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg. Consumer
prices advanced 4.3 percent from a year earlier, the most since
April, after a 3.9 percent rise in October.  The central bank raised the benchmark  interest rate  in
November after the forint sank to a record low against the euro,
also spurring the government to reverse its policy of shunning
aid from the  International Monetary Fund . Policy makers will
raise borrowing costs again next week as inflation accelerates,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “We expect a 50 basis point hike in December followed by
another 25 basis point step in January,”  Eszter Gargyan , a
Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a research
report after data showed a rise in inflation.  The median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed was for an
inflation rate of 4.2 percent. The Budapest-based Magyar Nemzeti
Bank will raise rates by 50 basis points to 7 percent on Dec.
20, according to seven of 10 economists in a separate Bloomberg
 survey , with one expecting a 25 basis pointS increase and two
projecting no change.  Hungary may obtain a financial assistance package of as
much as 20 billion euros ($26.4 billion) from the IMF and the
European Union, Mihaly Varga, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
chief of staff, told Origo news website in an interview
published today.  “The Monetary Council may halt with rate hikes in
February” after the government concludes the deal with the IMF
and the EU,’’ Citigroup’s Gargyan said.  The forint pared gains after  Fitch Ratings  revised down its
credit outlooks for Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania and the  Czech
Republic  to stable from positive as  Europe ’s economic-growth
prospects deteriorate amid a sovereign debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  