-- 
Former WaMu Headquarters in Seattle Is Put Up for Sale

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-12-14T00:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/former-wamu-headquarters-in-seattle-put-up-for-sale-by-northwestern-mutual.html
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Co. hired a broker to sell the Seattle headquarters of its
Russell Investment Group unit, the building it bought in 2009
after the collapse of previous owner  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)   The 42-story Russell Investments Center is about 95 percent
occupied, up from less than 40 percent when Northwestern Mutual
paid $115 million for the  property , said Mark Lucius, a
spokesman for the Milwaukee-based insurer. The building was
completed in 2006 at a cost of about $370 million.  “The Seattle real estate market has rebounded and we
believe we have an opportunity to realize significant gains for
our policy owners by selling the building,” said Lucius.  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , based in  Los Angeles , is the broker, he said.  Northwestern Mutual is taking advantage of demand by
institutional investors for high-quality, income-producing real
estate. Office rents have been rising and vacancies declining in
coastal cities such as  Seattle , where job growth is relatively
strong. Seattle’s average office vacancy rate was 15.2 percent
in the third quarter, ranking it 15th best out of 79 U.S.
metropolitan markets surveyed by Reis Inc., a New York-based
research company.  ‘Spectacular Profits’  “It’s not unusual for buyers who bought in 2009 to harvest
sometimes spectacular profits, given the current appetite for
core product,” said Kevin Shannon, a CBRE vice chairman who is
handling the sale. “You have seen this occur up and down the
West Coast this year.”  The Seattle Times reported yesterday that the building had
been put up for sale.  A sale of the 870,000-square-foot (80,800-square meter)
Russell Investments Center may top the biggest office
transaction on the West Coast this year, Shannon said. In
August, developer Schnitzer West LLC sold the 36-story 1918
Eighth Ave. and the smaller 818 Stewart St. for $480 million to
a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in the region’s biggest deal of
2011. The properties sold for $525 per square foot and $558 per
square foot, respectively.  “The internal rate of return that core buyers will accept
for trophies like this has been in the 6.5 to 7.5 percent
range,” Shannon said. “Seattle is, in my opinion, one of the
top three or four coastal gateway markets in the country right
now so we’re expecting a strong competition.”  The property -- at 1301 Second Ave., next to the Seattle
Art Museum -- is noted for its environmentally friendly design
and garden terrace on the 17th floor.  Northwestern Mutual bought the building from JPMorgan Chase
and filled it by moving Russell’s head office from Tacoma, south
of Seattle, and adding other corporate tenants. Besides Russell,
occupants include Nordstrom Inc., JPMorgan Chase and Zillow Inc.
JPMorgan had acquired the assets of Washington Mutual after the
government seized the mortgage lender in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  