-- 
Further Czech Rate Cuts Wouldn’t Be Positive, Policy Maker Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-12-13T10:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/further-czech-rate-cuts-wouldn-t-be-positive-policy-maker-says.html
A further reduction in interest
rates wouldn’t be positive for the economy, central bank board
member  Eva Zamrazilova  said.  Zamrazilova commented on exchange-rate developments and the
possible impact on inflation in a Dec. 12 interview.  On global economic trends:  “We are seeing a fundamental change in global economic
developments. In this respect, stagflation isn’t an unimaginable
word for me.  ‘‘Global efforts to ease monetary policies and add
liquidity have been counterproductive and they haven’t helped
domestic economies.  ‘‘The added liquidity has been channeled around the
globalized economy and has fueled price pressures in various
geographical places and various commodities or asset classes. So
attempts to support domestic demand has mainly resulted in
fueling inflation.’’  On exchange rate and inflation risks:  ‘‘Currency developments become important to me at the time
when I think that deviation of the  exchange rate  from the
forecast becomes a factor influencing inflation and inflation
expectations, and I think this may already be the case at this
moment.  ‘‘At present, we need to think whether the development with
the koruna isn’t the factor that may push inflation outside the
target corridor.  ‘‘A reduction of interest rates in the  Czech Republic  can’t
influence demand in our main trading partners, and I don’t
consider this to be a step that could lead to anything positive
in the Czech economy.  ‘‘My view from a year ago was that the rates should
increase. What I’m thinking about now is whether the current
weaker exchange rate may be the result of overly relaxed
monetary policy over the past two years.  ‘‘Czech  interest rates  have been lower than  euro zone  rates
for a relatively long period of time and I’m thinking whether
this could be a factor that led to the koruna’s exchange rate
being weaker than the forecast at present.  ‘‘I’ve been thinking for a year and a half as to whether
rates shouldn’t be higher, and I’m constantly thinking about it.
Only at the time of an escalating crisis in the euro zone did I
think it wouldn’t be appropriate to take measure in the
tightening direction.  ‘‘Our primary goal is to keep inflation expectations under
control, or, in other words, prevent them from getting out of
control.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  