-- 
GE Plans Profit Gains Higher Than 10% in Industrial, Finance

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-12-14T00:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ge-projects-revenue-gain-of-5-in-2012-amid-industrial-growth.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is targeting
more than 10 percent earnings growth at its industrial and
finance businesses next year, in part by driving up
manufacturing profit margins.  GE expects to raise the margins by as much as 50 basis
points from this year’s 15 percent in both 2012 and 2013 by
focusing on materials costs, reducing development time for new
products and shrinking the “footprint” in  Europe , Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  told shareholders during a
meeting today in  New York .  “We’ve got a funnel that’s bigger than that,” Immelt
said, referring to margin-growth potential as the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company targets about 200 basis points total.
“We’re working on that.”  Boosting profit margins would draw more earnings from a
revenue gain of as much as  10 percent  next year in manufacturing
businesses from health-care devices to  jet engines  and energy
equipment.  Immelt, who tripled research and development funding in
recent years to more than $5.5 billion in 2011, named areas in
which the company plans to take market share, including narrow-
body aircraft engines where the company already dominates via
its CFM partnership with Safran SA of  France .  CFM won $4.7 billion in contracts today to power Boeing Co.
737 planes purchased by Southwest Airlines Co. in the biggest
aircraft order ever.  Research and Development  Research and development investments have “hurt our
margins this year, for sure, but now the fruits of our labor are
going to pay out,” Immelt said. “We feel good about our
positioning here.”  Shipping more equipment including  wind turbines ,
locomotives and jet engines, driven by exports to  emerging
markets  including the  Middle East , will help drive down material
costs and boost employment.  “We are going to have huge volumes in the U.S.,” Immelt
said. “That’s where the productivity is going to come from.
All-in, we’re going to have 13,000 new people in the U.S.”  The energy division’s large gas-turbine market share, which
Immelt pegged at about 45 percent of the world market, may be
bolstered by plans in the U.S. and in emerging markets such as
China to replace coal plants with natural gas.  “There is so much work going on today in China in shale
gas,” Immelt said. “I say a prayer every night, ‘Bless my
family and find more gas in  China .’ Those are my only two
prayers.”  ‘Tough Europe’  GE plans opportunistic acquisitions in 2012, limited in
size to $1 billion to $3 billion, Immelt said. The company
announced $8.9 billion in deals this year, Bloomberg data show.  “I’m a 30-year GE man,” he said. “For the vast majority
of my career, doing $3 billion of acquisitions in a year was
unthinkable. We’ve just, over the last decade, had to fix this
baby up a little bit. We had to contemporize it, make it
stronger and get faster growth.”  While GE is prepared for a “tough Europe” as the region
grapples with a sovereign-debt crisis, it’s manageable, Immelt
said. To prepare for a potential recession there, GE will
restructure some operations this quarter, at a cost of 3 cents
to 4 cents a share.  Areas likely to be pared back include sales offices in
divisions such as health care and lighting, Immelt said.  At its finance unit, GE is continuing to reduce risk by
curbing lending and shrinking the portion of the parent
company’s profit derived from the business. Investors tend to
value finance operations less highly than manufacturing.  $30 Billion  GE Capital  has shrunk its ending net investment, a measure
of a finance company’s assets, from $550 billion at the end of
2008 to  $452 billion  now, according to today’s presentation.  GE will only stay in finance markets where it has a
“strong competitive advantage over banks,” Immelt said.
“There are places where we have bone-crushing competitive
advantage and the middle market is one of them.”  Middle market clients with $10 million to $1 billion in
revenue are becoming the largest of the core businesses at GE
Capital. Executives say they have a competitive advantage there
because of know-how that extends from finance to areas such as
consulting contracts and bulk tire purchases.  The parent company should generate $30 billion in cash to
spend on acquisitions, shareholder dividend increases and
buybacks over the next three years, Immelt said.  GE raised its quarterly dividend last week by 13 percent,
the fourth increase in less than two years. The payout, which
rose to 17 cents a share from 15 cents, is payable Jan. 25 to
shareholders of record on Dec. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  