-- 
German Bonds Drop as Bailout Fund Sells Bills, Investor Confidence Rises

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T16:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/german-bonds-drop-as-bailout-fund-sells-bills-investor-confidence-rises.html
German bonds declined, pushing two-
year yields up by the most in a week, after  Europe ’s bailout
fund sold the maximum amount of bills at its first auction of
the securities.  Two-year yields climbed from near a record low as a German
report showed investor confidence in Europe’s biggest economy
unexpectedly increased this month, damping demand for safer
assets. Italian two-year notes rose for a third day as the
 European Central Bank  was said to buy the securities. Spanish
notes advanced after the nation sold more bills than its maximum
target at an auction.  “There’s a general improvement in sentiment and that
weighs on bunds,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “There’s some relief
that the Spanish bill auction results were good, and that’s
given peripheral debt a bit of a bid.”  The German two-year yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 0.28 percent at 4:28 p.m.  London  time after
climbing five basis points, the most since Dec. 5. It dropped to
a record 0.247 percent yesterday. The 0.25 percent note due
December 2013 fell 0.055, or 55 euro cents per 1,000-euro
($1,308) face amount, to 99.94. Ten-year rates climbed two basis
points to 2.04 percent.  Germany  plans to sell 5 billion euros of benchmark two-year
notes tomorrow.  German securities pared declines after Reuters reported
that Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected raising the upper limit
of funding for the European Stability Mechanism, the permanent
bailout fund slated to start next year.  ‘Decent Amount’  The European Financial Stability Facility issued 1.97
billion euros of 91-day bills at an average yield of 0.2222
percent, the Bundesbank said. Investors bid for 3.2 times the
amount sold. The EFSF sells debt to finance rescue loans
extended to Europe’s high debt and deficit nations.  The yield compared with a rate of about zero on similar-
maturity German and Dutch bills.  “With three-month EFSF bills yielding a decent amount
above where Dutch bills trade, it was no surprise that some
excess cash found its way there,” Lloyds Bank’s Wand said.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
 index  of German investor and analyst expectations, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
minus 53.8 from a three-year low of minus 55.2 in November.
Economists forecast a drop to minus 55.8, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Bill Sales  Italian notes reversed an earlier drop as four people with
knowledge of the transactions said the ECB bought the nation’s
securities. The people declined to be identified because the
deals are confidential. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based
central bank declined to comment.  The nation’s two-year yields dropped 17 basis points to
5.68 percent after earlier rising as much as 28 basis points.
Five-year yields rose seven basis points to 6.82 percent before
 Italy  sells up to 3 billion euros of 4.75 percent securities
maturing in September 2016 tomorrow.  Spain ’s two-year notes gained for a third day after the
nation sold 4.94 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills,
more than the maximum target of 4.25 billion euros the Treasury
set for the sale. Demand for the 12-month securities rose to
3.14 times the amount sold, compared with 2.13 last month, and
the bid-to-cover ratio for the longer-maturity bills was 4.97
times versus 5.96.  Yields on the notes dropped 31 basis points to 4.17
percent, after falling 44 basis points in the previous two days.  Fitch, Moody’s  Greece  sold 1.625 billion euros of 26-week bills with a
uniform yield of 4.95 percent, the Public Debt Management Agency
said. Investors bid for 2.93 times the amount on offer.  “Notwithstanding the weakness of periphery secondary
markets, bills auctions have been performing well, perhaps
thanks to domestic support,”  Luca Jellinek , head of European
interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in London, wrote in an e-mailed report. “We’re still not
clear how the bond auctions will go, but the evidence is that
there is some demand somewhere.”  Ten-year bund yields declined the most in six weeks
yesterday as  Fitch Ratings  joined Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s in warning it may cut the credit ratings of
European nations.  Euro-area leaders agreed last week on a blueprint for
closer fiscal union in the currency bloc, seeking to prevent
Spain and Italy from being engulfed by troubles that forced
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  German bonds have returned 8.5 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Spanish securities gained 2.3
percent, while Greek debt tumbled 63 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  