-- 
Confidence Among German Investors Unexpectedly Rose in December: Economy

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-13T11:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/german-investor-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-for-first-time-in-10-months.html
German investor confidence
unexpectedly rose for the first time in 10 months in December,
indicating  Europe ’s largest economy is weathering the region’s
debt crisis.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to minus 53.8 from a three-year low of minus 55.2 in
November. Economists forecast a drop to minus 55.8, the median
of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows.  While the debt crisis is threatening to tip the 17-nation
euro region into recession, Germany is showing few signs of
slowdown. Industrial production rose more than economists
forecast in October,  manufacturing orders  rebounded and
unemployment declined in November, pushing the jobless rate to a
seasonally adjusted 6.9 percent.  “Things don’t look so bad at company level,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn, who
predicted the ZEW index would increase. “The economic situation
isn’t as bad as the debt crisis would suggest. We don’t
expect a clear or deep recession in Germany, and that’s
reflected in this slight improvement in expectations.”  The euro rose to $1.3225 at 12:25 p.m. in Frankfurt from
$1.3170 before the ZEW report. ZEW’s gauge of current conditions
fell to 26.8 from 34.2 in November.  Gloomy Outlook  “The slight improvement in confidence may prove
temporary,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . It mainly reflects “hopes ahead of last week’s
European Union summit that a positive outcome could trigger more
action from the  European Central Bank  to stop the market
panic,” he said.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 1.6 percent last
week, taking its annual decline to 15 percent, after the ECB on
Dec. 8 lowered its euro-region growth forecast for 2012 to 0.3
percent from 1.3 percent and damped speculation it will buy more
government bonds to curb the debt turmoil.  Germany may slip into a “technical” recession, with  gross
domestic product  declining this quarter and next, the Berlin-
based DIW institute said on Nov. 30.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest maker of
semiconductors, on Nov. 16 forecast a steeper decline in sales
than analysts’ projections.  Metro AG (MEO)  fell the most since its
1996 initial public offering on Dec. 6 after Germany’s biggest
retailer forecast that sales and earnings will fall this year.  Business Confidence  Still, the Ifo institute’s business confidence gauge rose
for the first time in five months in November, and  GfK SE (GFK) 
predicted consumer confidence will increase in December.  BASF SE (BAS)  on Nov. 29 raised its sales target for the end of
this decade, citing emerging-market growth. Juergen Geissinger,
chief executive officer of Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing
maker that controls  Continental AG (CON) , said last month that global
orders “remain solid.”  ZEW President  Wolfgang Franz  said the index shows that
investors and financial market experts “expect economic
activity to slow down, but not to plunge during the next six
months.”  Europe’s debt crisis is hurting the global economy by
cutting demand for exports from nations such as  China . Chinese
economic growth cooled to 9.1 percent last quarter, the least in
more than two years, and the increase in exports in November was
the weakest since 2009 excluding seasonal distortions.  Global Trade  In the latest sign of a slowdown in global trade,
Philippine exports fell in October for a sixth straight month, a
report released in  Manila  showed today.  Federal Reserve policy makers meet later today to discuss
the outlook for a  U.S. economy  that has strengthened since their
November meeting, reducing the jobless rate to 8.6 percent from
9.1 percent. U.S. retail sales data for November are also due,
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey showing a
0.6 percent gain after a 0.5 percent increase in October.  The Federal Open Market Committee is set to release a
statement at around 2:15 p.m. Washington time.  At a Brussels summit on Dec. 8-9, European leaders agreed
to bolster efforts to fight the debt crisis and tighten fiscal
rules. While the ECB the same week stepped up its provision of
liquidity to banks, it said responsibility for overcoming the
crisis lies with governments.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including AAA-rated France and  Germany , on review for possible
downgrade on Dec. 6 pending an assessment of the summit. Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it will review the ratings of
all EU countries after leaders failed to produce “decisive
policy measures” to end the turmoil.  “The debt crisis is still waiting to be solved and this
may be the case for quite some time,” said Carsten Klude, head
of investment strategy at M.M. Warburg & Co. in Hamburg. German
investor confidence will probably decline in the coming months,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  