-- 
Holl Gets Gold Medal for Prickly Designs at Columbia, Shenzhen

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/gold-medal-for-holl-s-prickly-designs-at-columbia-shenzhen-commentary.html
In an early project at  Seattle 
University’s Chapel of St. Ignatius, Steven Holl conceived what
he called “seven bottles of light in a stone box.”  Fortunately, he wasn’t shown the door.  His design lets bands of colored daylight glow on curved
surfaces of rough or smooth plaster. It’s a humble and sublimely
spiritual place.  Holl, 64, has celebrated projects all over  Europe , and in
Seattle, Kansas City, and  Iowa . He has conquered China with two
extraordinary commercial projects.  Last week, the  American Institute of Architects  announced
that he would receive the 2012 Gold Medal, the highest honor the
organization bestows.  “It’s still kind of shocking,” Holl said in a telephone
interview. “I think it came about because we are willing to
take risks.”  You don’t just walk through a Holl building. You embark on
a dreamlike journey. Stairs and ramps curve or vanish into a
mysterious distance, where some unseen light beckons you onward
to new discoveries.  For his brilliant addition to the Nelson-Atkins Museum of
Art in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , Holl alternated art-lighted
exhibition spaces with vestibules bathed in daylight. It’s like
strolling into a sun-dappled clearing after emerging from a
forest.  Just enough sun seeps into the galleries to bring the art
works to life, but not so much as to harm them.  His prickly beauty insists on its allure. I sometimes feel
I must pull up a chair and sit down and appreciate it for a
while. That insistent quality can put people off.  Poetic Rooms  Holl gets up every morning and lets his prodigious
imagination fill little notebooks with watercolors that range
from wonderfully poetic rooms with clouds floating overhead to
monstrously distorted body parts entangled in each other.  Occasionally that fertile mind gets the best of him. For a
dormitory at MIT, Holl developed exquisite lounges to encourage
students to gather. Instead of ceilings, he extended the spaces
vertically into sinuously twisting chimneys that rise through
the roof. They bring celestial light of baroque theatricality on
students scanning Facebook three floors down.  They’re wildly overproduced. The lounges are too small and
Holl’s gridded, overbearing exterior makes dorm rooms feel like
cages.  An architect that takes such risks too often scares off
clients. His archives are stuffed with beautiful unbuilt work.  For those who can handle the Holl challenge, the results
can be transforming.  Bridges Leap  In designing the Vanke Center in Shenzhen,  China , Holl
talked the real-estate development client into combining a
planned complex of buildings into a single structure he likens
to a skyscraper tipped on its side.  Wings branch off the building, bent and faceted to evoke
human fingers. They soar horizontally in long bridgelike
structures across a soft undulating landscape.  Delicate glass-walled sky bridges athletically leap from
one 20th floor to another in a ring of eight residential towers
in Beijing called Linked Hybrid.  Though he has had his office in  New York City  and taught at
 Columbia University  for almost 40 years, the city is averse to
Holl-style innovation.  One of his most beloved works (in this case with artist
Vito Acconci) is a wide, whimsically jigsaw-puzzled door for the
Storefront for Art and Architecture, a tiny downtown exhibition
space.  Glowing Pavilion  He renovated the 1890 building occupied by  New York
University ’s philosophy department with a bulging and swaying
stairway perforated with effervescing soap-bubble shapes. They
throw points of light around with abandon. He built a glowing
pavilion in translucent glass to connect two buildings at the
Pratt Institute in  Brooklyn .  More is to come at last. The Campbell Sports Center, a
48,000-square-foot fitness facility, is under construction by
Columbia University at Baker Field on  Manhattan ’s northern tip.
A zigzagging exterior stair animates this gateway building that
stands hard up against an elevated subway line.  For a library about to be built on the  East River  in
Queens, Holl designed study terraces that step up the building,
opening onto stunning city and water panoramas. He stacks the
terraces with books to reinforce the primacy of the printed
page.  It’s a characteristic mix of the cerebral and the sensuous.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 