-- 
Goldman Says Class Dismissed as ‘Occupy Harvard’ Mars Recruiting Sessions

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-12-13T15:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/goldman-says-class-dismissed-as-occupy-harvard-mars-recruiting-sessions.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are getting a chilly reception at top colleges,
including  Harvard University  and  Princeton University , as campus
offshoots of Occupy Wall Street target investment-bank
recruiting events.  Goldman Sachs canceled visits to Harvard and  Brown
University  last week following a November incident where Occupy
Harvard protesters attempted to enter a recruitment session.
Students at  Yale University , Princeton and  Cornell University 
have also rallied at campus events by investment firms.  Students of the eight elite colleges composing the Ivy
League in the northeastern U.S., such as Sandra Korn of Harvard
and Tom Moore of Cornell, are criticizing their universities for
sending high numbers of graduates to  Wall Street , rather than to
jobs that emphasize community service. Careers in financial and
consulting firms are frequently presented as the best or only
option, said Korn, a sophomore majoring in history of science
and gender studies who participated in the Nov. 28 protest.  “It’s kind of frustrating for students who think this is
not the most ethical profession,” Korn, 19, said in a telephone
interview. “When some people are making money by taking risks
with other people’s lives and livelihoods, that’s detrimental to
society.”  About 22 percent of Harvard 2011 graduates who planned to
enter the workforce were headed into finance and consulting,
down from a high of 47 percent in 2007, according to a  Harvard
Crimson survey  published in May. Half the students entering
those fields said they would have chosen to work in other
professions if salary weren’t a concern.  Targeting Blankfein  More than 11 percent were planning for jobs in education,
and one in four were ticketed for graduate programs, according
to the survey.  A Dec. 8 Goldman Sachs recruiting visit to the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based university was canceled “due to proximity
to the Reading Period and commencement of exams,” according to
an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News. A session days earlier on
Brown’s campus in Providence,  Rhode Island , was scuttled hours
before it was to begin, the  Brown Daily Herald reported  Dec. 5.
Both sessions were rescheduled as Internet-based seminars.  Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, a graduate of Harvard College and  Harvard Law School ,
canceled an October appearance at Barnard College in New York.
Students at  Columbia University , with which Barnard is
affiliated, organized a weeklong protest against Blankfein, the
Columbia Daily Spectator reported on its website. Barnard
President Debora L. Spar joined Goldman Sachs’s board in June.  West Coast Shipping  David Wells, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on the campus protests.  Protests spawned by the Occupy  Wall Street  movement that
began in September have focused attention on Americans who lost
homes and jobs as credit froze after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, contributing to the worst
recession since the Great Depression, even as many U.S. banks
rebounded. The movement that began in a New York park has spread
to cities worldwide including  Boston ,  London , Sydney and
Toronto.  Occupy demonstrators yesterday protested to halt shipping
operations at ports in Oakland and Long Beach,  California , and
 Portland ,  Oregon , where Goldman Sachs owns a stake in the
largest cargo-terminal operator. The economic value of
containerized cargo at West Coast ports is about $705 million a
day, according to Martin Associates, a Lancaster, Pennsylvania-
based consulting firm.  Job Opportunities  College students are saying that Wall Street banks haven’t
been held accountable for promoting the high-risk investments
that led to the financial crisis.  “In general, they play a role in the crashing of the
economy and the broadening of the income distribution gap,”
said Luciana Chamorro, a senior at Princeton. “It’s the
maximization of profit at the expense of social equality.”  Chamorro said she’s been disappointed by the focus on Wall
Street and consulting jobs among the opportunities presented by
the Princeton, New Jersey-based university’s career office. She
was among about 20 students who interrupted a Dec. 7  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  recruitment session on campus to voice their
concern. There were about 25 students there who had come to
learn about the investment bank, and five people from the
company, three of them recent Princeton graduates, she said.  “I don’t think we seemed threatening in any way to them,”
she said. “We both gave each other the space to say what we
were thinking and I think that was really good.”  Yale’s Approach  Morgan Stanley experienced some “peripheral” protest
activity at an event at Yale in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , last
month, said Jeanmarie McFadden, a spokeswoman for the firm.  “We have not changed our recruitment activities and we
have not seen any impact on attendance,” she said.  Yale respects the rights of students to protest peacefully,
said Allyson Moore, associate dean of Yale College and director
of career services.  “None of the companies were distressed by it,” Moore
said. “They anticipated it.”  About 11 percent of Yale undergraduates take jobs in
finance, less than the 18 percent that go to work in education,
Moore said.  “Our philosophy is to support each individual student’s
career aspirations,” Moore said. “If they want a career in the
arts, we’ll do our level best to help them achieve that and if
they aspire to a career in business, we’ll work equally as
hard.”  Public Service  Korn, the Harvard student, said she has slept in a tent in
Harvard Yard about 14 times as part of the Occupy protest. She
said she heard speeches by university President Drew Faust that
emphasized the importance of public-service careers.  Under Faust, Harvard has increased opportunities and
support for students seeking experiences and careers in public
service, said Jeff Neal, a university spokesman. Efforts last
year included a series of new Presidential Public Service
Fellowships. She has also said that the university’s next
fundraising campaign will include increasing summer public-
service opportunities, according to Neal.  On Nov. 28, Korn said she and about 25 other Occupy Harvard
protesters tried to enter the Goldman Sachs event. She said a
staff member told her group they couldn’t enter because they
weren’t properly dressed and didn’t have resumes.  The protesters remained outside, chanting anti-Goldman
Sachs slogans, she said. Students who had come to hear the
bank’s presentation were unhappy, she said.  “There were certainly some students who were a little
annoyed,” she said.  Strained Friendships  Colleges should consider banning corporate recruiting, as
they did military recruiters, as antithetical to the purposes of
a university, said Moore, the  Cornell  sophomore.  “There’s a sense that they’re appealing to people who
don’t have a lot of options, that graduation is coming near and
debt is piling up,” Moore said. “People are becoming part of
this profoundly unjust institution because they don’t see an
alternative.”  Moore said his views have caused friction with classmates
interested in Wall Street jobs.  “I’ve definitely had some friendships strained,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in  New York  at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  