-- 
Google Claims Censorship as Silicon Valley Fights Hollywood on Web Piracy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-13T19:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/google-claims-censorship-as-silicon-valley-fights-hollywood-on-web-piracy.html
Internet companies led by  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are waging a last-ditch campaign to block anti-piracy
legislation before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, saying
the Hollywood-backed measure amounts to online censorship.  Lobbying in Washington by the Web industry and motion-
picture studios has intensified as the panel prepares for a
scheduled Dec. 15 vote on the bill, which has become a flash
point in the debate over how to curb online trafficking of
illegally copied movies and music.  The controversy has drawn in the heads of movie studios,
who see the legislation as a way to crack down on intellectual
property theft. Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  has decried the
measure as “a form of censorship.”  “They should not criminalize the intermediaries,” Schmidt
told reporters after a speech in  Washington  yesterday. “They
should go after the people who are violating the law.”  The House legislation, and a similar measure in the Senate,
would let the  Justice Department  seek court orders requiring
Internet-service providers,  search engines , payment services and
advertising networks to block or cease business with non-U.S.
websites linked to piracy. The House bill, introduced by
Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican,
has more than two dozen cosponsors in both parties.  “The bill works within the current system for intellectual
property enforcement,” Smith said in a statement last week.
“The sooner we cut off the flow of revenue to rogue sites, the
better it will be for America’s innovators and job creators.”  White House Visit  The motion-picture industry is mounting its own
counterattack in support of the legislation, through White House
visits and a national advertising campaign.  The  Motion Picture Association  of America last week flew in
studio executives from Fox and Warner Brothers along with Taylor Hackford, the director of “Ray” and the husband of actress
 Helen Mirren , to lobby for the anti-piracy bills.  The Hollywood delegation met with House Judiciary Committee
members and made their case at the White House in meetings with
Vice President  Joe Biden , White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley,
and  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama .  The group visited Washington to dispel myths about the
anti-piracy bills, Jim Gianopulos, chief executive officer of
Fox Filmed Entertainment Inc., said in an interview last week
with reporters and editors at Bloomberg’s Washington office.  “The nature of the opposition has been this sort of
generic ‘It’s going to destroy the Internet. It’s going to
eliminate the First Amendment. It’s going to stop innovation,’”
Gianopulos said. Such “scare tactics” have nothing to do with
the actual bill, he said.  Political Giving  Employees of television, movie and music companies have
been the top source of political contributions to Smith for his
2012 re-election campaign, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group. Those
industries’ employees were the second-biggest source of
donations to Senator Patrick Leahy’s last re-election in 2010,
the center’s data show. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee, sponsored the Senate bill.  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who served three
decades in the Senate, is looking for a win in his new role as
head of the MPAA, which grew powerful in Washington under the
38-year leadership of Jack Valenti, a onetime aide to  Lyndon Johnson . The group’s members include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Viacom
Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, Sony Corp.,  News Corp .,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.  ‘Reprehensible’ Comparisons  Dodd, who was a member of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, rejected Schmidt’s accusation that the bills amount
to online censorship. The movie industry does not support “any
efforts to block political websites, censor social media, or
silence artists because of what they want to say,” Dodd said
today at an event in Washington.  “I know what authoritarian and totalitarian censorship
looks like,” he said. “I find absolutely reprehensible the
comparisons some have made between efforts to shut down foreign
rogue sites and the policies of repressive governments.”  Google, Facebook Inc. and other Web companies say the anti-
piracy measures would require them to police the Internet and
threaten the growth of the U.S. technology industry.  Google, the world’s largest Web search provider, and
Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, are boosting their
spending and presence in Washington to cope with a burgeoning
list of issues, including online piracy as well as consumer
privacy and antitrust. Google has hired 19 new outside lobbying
firms this year, and Facebook has two new outside firms, Senate
records show.  Alternative Proposal  Technology-industry groups are rallying around an
alternative draft bill that would make the U.S. International
Trade Commission, rather than the Justice Department, the main
arbiter of piracy complaints. The independent, quasi-judicial
agency has the power to block imports of products found to
infringe intellectual-property rights.  The alternative proposal, from Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, provides effective remedies “without creating new
liabilities for lawful, U.S. technology companies,” the
Computer & Communications Industry Association, the  Consumer
Electronics Association  and NetCoalition wrote in a letter
yesterday.  NetCoalition’s members include Google,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Employees of high-technology companies were Wyden’s eighth-
biggest source of donations for his 2010 re-election campaign,
and have been Issa’s 13th-biggest source for his 2012 re-
election, according to Center for Responsive Politics data.  Television Ads  Creative America , a Toluca Lake, California-based nonprofit
founded by Hollywood studios and unions including the Screen
Actors Guild and Directors Guild of America, started running ads
promoting the House and Senate anti-piracy bills last week in
the Washington area and on national cable networks. The group
will put ads in newspapers starting today, said Craig Hoffman, a
spokesman.  The House Judiciary Committee published  an amendment 
yesterday to its anti-piracy bill that addresses some of the
technology-industry criticisms of the measure.  The amendment, which will be taken up during the Dec. 15
committee vote, seeks to narrow the definition of non-U.S.
websites that engage in piracy and calls for an inter-agency
study on the bill’s impact on the Internet’s domain-name system,
among other changes.  “We’ve got a majority of votes for that legislation,”
Smith said at an event today in Washington sponsored by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying
group. “We have a manager’s amendment that addressed I believe
all of the legitimate concerns out there.”  The House bill is H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act,
and the Senate bill is S. 968, the Protect IP Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  