-- 
Greek Chef Finds Meatballs Sad, Fields Job Requests: Interview

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/greek-chef-finds-meatballs-sad-fields-requests-for-jobs-a-craig-copetas.html
In the packed front room of the Evi
Evane restaurant in Paris, a customer watches as economist Ntina
Nikolaou walks out of the kitchen and sets before him a 13.50
euro ($17.80) platter of melancholy Greek meatballs.  “There’s much sadness in  Greece ,” laments Nikolaou, who
in 1988 left her native country and the intricacies of debt-to-
GDP recipes behind to construct the proper yogurt-to-olive-oil
ratio required to ensure Evi Evane’s 17 euro fig-stuffed pork
loin arrives moist out of the oven.  “When food fails to cheer up a Greek,” says the chef
trained in the law of diminishing marginal utility at  L’Institut
Superieur Europeen de Gestion , “we have a serious equilibrium
problem.”  Make no mistake. Nikolaou knows of what she speaks. Her
family hails from a village overlooking Delphi, home of the
Oracle and the secret formula for her ambrosia dessert: a 9 euro
pistachio cream soup that demands a second portion.  From Paris to  Athens , Nikolaou says that even a perfectly
grilled kefta meatball nowadays looks cheerless, as good an
indicator as any on what happens next in Greece’s $473 billion
sovereign debt drama, which has spilled over into a euro region
crisis. Evi Evane for years has been a habitual eatery and talk
shop for Greek diplomats in Paris and members of the city’s
Greek community.  She hears things.  Desperate Generation  “The mentality of the next generation of Greeks will not
be good,” says Nikolaou, slicing up an inimitable baklava
sweetened with cinnamon instead of honey. “What do they have to
look forward to? Unemployment, closed businesses. This does not
help the appetite.”  Standing behind the counter at the Greek delicatessen she
also operates on the Left Bank, Nikolaou reckons her future as a
Greek government economist -- as well as the business skills she
honed to create a restaurant in the world’s gastronomic capital
-- would have been stifled had she remained in Greece.  “I’d be in the same situation as everyone else,” she
says. A phone call interrupts. The conversation is short and in
Greek.  Nikolaou knits her brow. “I’ve had more than 40 calls from
Greece over the past several months, all from people hoping that
I can find them a job in Paris,” she says. “I’m now an
employment agency.”  Again, the phone rings.  Ethics Lesson  “I go back to Greece four times each year,” Nikolaou
says. “What I’ve seen is life becoming more difficult, less
agreeable, much more fear, risk and the unfolding of an economic
paradox. Greeks are not lazy, but the governments that have run
my country have never been able to create a fiscal discipline
that could take advantage of our work ethic. That’s the precise
cause of the Greek sovereign debt crisis.”  Nikolaou, who has two daughters and, with her husband,
works 18-hour days, says Greece’s main political parties, Pasok
and  New Democracy , wasted five decades choreographing a “good
dance” based on easy money. “Those with any business sense
left the country,” she says. “Over the centuries, the economic
results of the Greek diaspora have been positive for every
country except Greece.”  Now, with the promised dawn of a new responsibility rising
from Greece’s soured fiscal legacy, Nikolaou says the
politicians would be wise to use their BlackBerrys to check in
with her and other members of the Diaspora for guidance.  “If they asked, I would help,” Nikolaou says. “I’ve no
doubt the others would too.”  Diaspora Luminaries  It’s a long and eclectic list, which includes the likes of
former Democratic U.S. presidential candidate Michael Dukakis,
guitar pioneer Leo Fender, Research in Motion Inc. founder  Mike Lazaridis  and Baltimore Orioles pitcher Milt “Gimpy” Pappas,
who gave up Roger Maris’s 59th home run in 1961.  But for Nikolaou, the most telling story of failure and
success is that of her fellow economist Dimitri Papademetriou,
the chairman and chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., who is better known by his Anglicized name  Jamie Dimon .  “Can you imagine what might have become of him had the
Papademetriou family moved to Athens and not to America?”
Nikolaou says of Dimon, whose Anatolian Greek grandfather became
a New York stockbroker after fleeing Smyrna at the end of the
Greco-Turkish War in 1922.  Back in the kitchen, over the fragrance of grilling gambas
and hefty glasses filled from a velvety 39 euro bottle of 2008
Orgion red from the splendid vineyards of Domaine Sklavos on the
island of Kefalonia, Nikolaou cuts into another baklava and,
along with another plate of delicately baked halloumi cheese,
offers up her Greek fiscal forecast.  “The next five years are going to be impossibly
difficult,” the economist in exile says. “Now eat.”  Evi Evane Restaurant, 10 Rue Guisarde, 75006 Paris, tel.
+33-1-4354-9786. Evi Evane Traiteur, 20 Rue Saint-Placide, 75006
Paris, tel. +33-1-7170-6059 or  http://www.evievane.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 