-- 
Groupama’s Sale of Its Silic Shareholding Is ‘Well Under Way,’ Union Says

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-12-13T10:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/groupama-s-sale-of-its-silic-shareholding-is-well-under-way-union-says.html
Groupama SA ’s talks on the sale of
the French insurer’s stake in real-estate company  Silic (SIL)  SA with
Caisse des Depots et Consignations are “well under way,” a
Groupama union representative said.  “The decisions that are currently being taken are going in
the right direction. We are confident,” Ludovic Mallet,
national representative for the CFE-CGC union, said by telephone
today. Groupama’s board met yesterday and the sale of the firm’s
stake in Silic “might be announced soon,” he said, without
elaborating.  Caisse des Depots et Consignations, the Paris-based state-
owned bank, and customer-owned Groupama are in talks about CDC
participating in Silic through an exchange with  Icade SA (ICAD)  shares,
Groupama said Dec. 4.  The Paris-based insurer owns a 44 percent stake in Silic,
which has a market value of 1.25 billion euros ($1.65 billion).  Veronique Le Goff, a Paris-based spokeswoman at Groupama,
declined to comment, as did CDC spokesman Alexis Nugues. No one
was immediately available to comment at Icade nor at Silic.  Groupama, hurt by losses on Greek sovereign debt and
declines in stock investments, named Thierry Martel as chief
executive officer in October, ending the 11-year-long tenure of
his predecessor, Jean Azema. The company approved on Nov. 25 a a
500 million-euro capital injection from the group of regional
insurance firms that own its holding company to help improve
solvency “flexibility.”  CDC plans to buy a 6.5 percent stake in Silic immediately,
Le Figaro said today, without citing anyone. The bank and
Groupama plan to combine Silic and Icade later, with CDC owning
40 percent and the insurer keeping a 10 percent stake in the new
entity, the newspaper said.  CDC is also planning to inject 300 million euros via
preference shares in Groupama’s unit Gan Eurocourtage, Le Figaro
said.  “Caisse des Depots et Consignations is likely to inject
capital into Gan Eurocourtage, but this would take place at the
start of the first half of 2012,” Mallet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  