-- 
Guy Johnson Joins Bloomberg Television

-- B y  
-- 
2011-12-13T17:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/guy-johnson-joins-bloomberg-television.html

Press Release  Bloomberg Television strengthens its team with new hire from CNBC  London -- Bloomberg Television today announces Guy Johnson is to join the network as its
new London-based anchor.  Prior to joining Bloomberg, Johnson spent the last 14 years as a lead presenter at CNBC
 Europe , most recently anchoring “European Closing Bell”. Earlier in his career he also
held positions at ITN (Channel 5) and Financial Times Television reporting on global
financial and business activity.  Malcolm Fried, head of Bloomberg Television in Europe says: “Guy has a great deal of
relevant experience and is a strong addition to the Bloomberg Television presenting team
here in Europe.  He’s covered many major global economic and corporate events,
interviewed countless political and business leaders and his experience of covering the
rapidly moving developments in the eurozone will enhance our current output.”  Guy Johnson adds: “At a time of such extraordinary tension in the global economy, my move
to Bloomberg is an incredible opportunity.  Bloomberg Television’s multiple media
platforms represent a real advantage as my colleagues and I continue to report from the
forefront of the eurozone crisis. I eagerly look forward to the challenge of making sense
of this story for the millions of viewers that tune in every day.”  Johnson will officially begin his presenting duties on 1 April 2012.  About Bloomberg Television:  Bloomberg Television is available in the UK on Sky channel 502 and Virgin Media channel
609.Bloomberg Television offers extensive coverage and analysis of international business
news and stories of global importance. It is available in more than 270 million homes
worldwide and reaches some of the world’s most affluent and influential viewers in terms
of  household income , asset value and education levels. With production hubs in  London ,
 New York  and  Hong Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage of the people,
companies and ideas that move the markets.  For more information on Bloomberg Television,
please visit www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter (@BloombergTV) and Facebook.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Catrin Thomas, +44 (0) 20 7392 0673,  cthomas106@bloomberg.net 
