-- 
Liberty Global Said to Be Close to Kabel BW Deal Approval

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-12-13T16:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/liberty-global-said-to-be-close-to-winning-approval-for-kabel-bw-purchase.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , the cable
company controlled by billionaire  John Malone , is likely to get
regulatory approval this week to buy Germany’s  Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg GmbH , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Germany’s cartel office told the involved parties in a
letter yesterday that it is inclined to allow the deal, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the deliberations
aren’t public. The watchdog will announce its decision on
Dec. 15, spokesman Kay Weidner said via phone today, declining
to comment further.  Liberty Global bought Cologne-based Unitymedia for 3.5
billion euros ($4.6 billion) in November 2009 and proposed to
buy Heidelberg-based Kabel BW for 3.16 billion euros. The deal
would merge  Germany ’s second- and third-largest cable companies
and an approval would mark the first time antitrust authorities
allowed any of the larger cable operators to combine. The likely
approval of the deal was reported earlier by Manager Magazin.  “Cable operators are still a relatively small part of the
broadband market, and both Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone are
introducing more competition in TV, so it’s not that
surprising,” Stephen Wilson, a cable analyst for Informa
Telecoms and Media, said in a telephone interview.  The country’s largest cable operator,  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG , was blocked in 2004 from buying three other
operators on concern is would quash competition. Wilson said an
approved deal might open the door for  Kabel Deutschland  to
acquire Berlin-based Tele Columbus GmbH and its 2.3 million
subscribers, which UBS said last week could be worth as much as
600 million euros.  Cartel Discussions  Liberty Global and Kabel BW declined to comment on the
specifics of their talks with the cartel office.  “We remain confident of a positive decision,” Manuel Kohnstamm, Liberty Global’s managing director of public policy,
said via phone. “We are in a constructive dialogue with the
cartel authorities.”  In Germany, cable companies operate in distinct regions and
don’t compete with each other. Their main rival is  Deutsche
Telekom AG , which offers broadband, telephone and television
services nationwide.  Kabel Deutschland rose as much as 6.1 percent to 40.66
euros in Frankfurt trading and was up 4.8 percent as of 4:45
p.m. Chief Financial Officer Andreas Siemen said Nov. 15 he
hoped approval might improve the chances of further
consolidation of the German cable industry.  Competition Concerns  The cartel office said on Oct. 28 it had concerns that the
deal would exacerbate an already existing oligopoly in the
country’s television market.  In a first round of concessions, announced the same day,
Liberty Global said it would open the network to unencrypted
digital free-to-air TV in Unitymedia’s territory and continue to
allow this in Kabel BW’s region. The company also waived
exclusivity with housing associations, which in Germany amounts
to a large part of cable companies’ sales. On Nov. 3 the company
said it didn’t have a “plan B.“  The company made additional concessions on Nov. 29,
allowing termination rights, valid until Sept. 30, 2012, for
housing associations with longer-term contracts that cover
280,000 dwelling units. The units represent 30 percent of a
market segment where the cartel office had identified
“competitive concerns,” Liberty Global said.  The  North Rhine-Westphalia Media Authority  and the  Hesse
Regulatory Authority for Commercial Broadcasting , in which
Unitymedia operates, said the concessions were a “milestone on
the path to viewer-friendly digitization and innovative
infrastructure competition.”  Sky Opinion  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  and Deutsche Telekom are among
companies that have expressed concerns about the deal. Sky
noted Unitymedia customers’ lack of access to Sky’s high-
definition TV channels, according to a report this month in
digitalfernsehen.de, and the telecom operator has seen uptake of
its broadband services slow down as cable operators often offer
faster and cheaper internet. Unlike the cable companies,
Deutsche Telekom is obliged to allow third-party phone and
internet providers access to its networks.  Informa’s Wilson said the cartel office may have become
more inclined to allow the deal as Deutsche Telekom reached
deals with housing associations to provide television services.
Deutsche Telekom aims to sell as many as 3 million TV packages
by the end of next year.  As of end September,  Unitymedia  and  Kabel BW  had a total of
about 7 million subscribers. Kabel Deutschland had 8.7 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  