-- 
Michael Kors IPO Said to Be Oversubscribed

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-12-13T20:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/michael-kors-initial-public-offer-said-to-be-oversubscribed-1-.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. , the
clothing company founded by the designer of the same name, has
gotten orders for more stock than is being sold in its initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The banks managing the Kors Holdings sale will stop taking
orders for the shares today, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private. The IPO is scheduled
to price tomorrow, Bloomberg data show.  Kors Holdings is seeking as much as $792 million on behalf
of existing stockholders, a regulatory  filing  shows. Kors
himself, the chief creative officer and largest individual
investor, plans to trim his stake to 8.6 percent from 12 percent
in the sale.  Kors Holdings is selling 41.7 million shares for $17 to $19
apiece, according to the filing. The clothing maker is among 11
companies, including online game maker  Zynga Inc. , aiming to
generate as much as $3.8 billion in U.S. IPOs this week, the
most since March.  Lisa Pomerantz, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, the bank
leading the IPO, declined to comment.  The midpoint of the offering range would value Kors
Holdings at $3.4 billion, or 3.4 times sales of $1 billion in
the 12 months through Oct. 1, its filing shows.  Coach Inc. (COH) 
trades at about 4 times sales over the same period, and Ralph
Lauren Corp. is at about 2 times sales.  Kors Holdings plans to more than double stores over the
“long term,” according to its regulatory filing. Sales surged
more than 60 percent to $548.7 million in the six months through
Oct. 1.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs are
leading the offering for the clothing maker, whose shares will
trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker KORS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  