-- 
IEA Says More Sanctions on Iran May Push Crude Prices Higher

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-12-13T10:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/iea-says-more-sanctions-on-iran-may-push-crude-prices-higher-1-.html
Tougher international sanctions on
 Iran  may lead to higher global crude prices and a decrease in
output capacity for OPEC’s second-largest oil producer, the
 International Energy Agency  said.  A proposed European Union ban on purchases of almost
600,000 barrels a day of Iranian crude would “likely” force
refiners in the Mediterranean region to pay more for oil from
other suppliers, the agency said in a report released today.
Iran’s production capacity will decline by 890,000 barrels a day
to less than 3 million barrels a day by 2016 if the EU also
blocks sales, as it is considering, of oil-related equipment and
services to the Persian state, the IEA said.  The EU added 180 Iranian officials and companies to a
blacklist earlier this month to intensify pressure on Iran over
its nuclear program, after the U.S. imposed stiffer penalties in
November. The bloc is still discussing a possible halt to
purchases of crude from Iran, the world’s third-largest oil
exporter. The Gulf nation denies it is seeking technology to
build nuclear weapons.  “Given already very low European crude inventories, a
spate of precautionary buying and escalating tensions
surrounding the Iranian issue could sustain prompt prices at
levels higher than otherwise, amid the growing concerns about
the  euro zone  and weaker global economic activity for 2012,”
the IEA said.  Replacement Crude  Additional sanctions on Iran would probably result in
higher prices for buyers in the Mediterranean region, as they
seek replacement crude from other producers such as  Saudi
Arabia ,  Iraq ,  Russia , the Paris-based agency said.  “Saudi spare capacity may not be a precise match for the
significant volumes of Iranian Heavy crude involved,” it said
of the oil grade. Mediterranean refiners have started “to
enquire about extra cargoes of Arab Light, the closest quality
match for Iranian Heavy, although much of current Saudi spare
capacity may instead be held in the form of less suitable Arab
Medium or Arab Heavy,” it said.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, supplying more than 50
percent of the national budget, according to International
Monetary Fund figures. Iran pumped an average of 3.6 million
barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  