-- 
LightSquared Says Power Proposal Shows It’s Meeting GPS Concerns

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-13T21:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/lightsquared-says-power-proposal-shows-it-s-meeting-gps-concerns.html
Philip Falcone ’s  LightSquared 
wireless venture offered to forgo an increase in power affecting
global-positioning devices on the ground, saying the move shows
the company is addressing interference concerns.  The lower-energy operations, proposed in a Dec. 12
regulatory filing, is among LightSquared initiatives that have
“proven that an engineering solution to the interference issues
with GPS devices is possible,” Terry Neal, a company spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  LightSquared needs U.S. approval to build a high-speed
network offering wholesale service to 260 million people through
airwaves close to those used by GPS. LightSquared transmissions
caused harmful interference to 75 percent of GPS units tested in
a recent set of government-mandated tests, according to a draft
of a government summary seen by Bloomberg News.  The Bloomberg report “was based on an incomplete,
selective and slanted analysis of the data,” LightSquared said
in a letter yesterday to U.S. officials. Bloomberg stands by its
reporting, said  Ty Trippet , a spokesman for New York-based
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  A proper analysis of the U.S. tests would show that 14 of
92 of tested devices, or 15 percent, experienced some loss of
receiver sensitivity and were “completely operable with no
impact on the user’s experience,” Neal said.  ‘Self-Serving Definition’  Coalition to Save Our GPS, an organization of companies
that rely on the navigation technology, criticized the company’s
statement. “LightSquared insists on using its own, self-serving
definition of what constitutes harmful interference,” Dale Leibach, a group spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The organization, formed in response to LightSquared’s
plans, includes navigation-gear makers  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and  Trimble
Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , package shippers  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and the  Air Transport Association  representing
carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines .  LightSquared’s Dec. 12 filing said the company would forgo
one increase in power experienced by receivers on the ground
that was previously planned for 2017, and would delay another by
a year until 2016.  “Our analysis is still under way and we are examining the
full range of potential scenarios,” Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman
for the  National Telecommunications and Information
Administration , said in an e-mail. The Commerce Department
agency is helping to guide the U.S. assessment of Reston,
Virginia-based LightSquared, which is backed by $3 billion from
Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  