-- 
IMF’s Thomsen Says Greece Falling Short on Structural Reforms

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-12-13T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/imf-s-thomsen-says-greece-falling-short-on-structural-reforms.html
Greece ’s structural reforms have not
gone far enough and the government is unable to raise more
revenue through tax increases, the International Monetary Fund’s
mission chief to the country said.  “There has been too much reliance on taxation,”  Poul Thomsen , deputy director of the IMF’s European department and
mission chief to Greece, said in a conference call with
reporters today. “Structural reforms have fallen short. They
are well behind schedule.”  The IMF approved a payment of 2.2 billion euros ($2.9
billion) to Greece on Dec. 5 as part of a joint program with the
European Union. That followed a Nov. 30 agreement by euro-area
finance ministers on a 5.8 billion-euro loan to Greece under
last year’s bailout.  Greek authorities have struggled to implement reforms
approved in June, the Washington-based IMF said in a review of
Greece released today that was dated Nov. 30. Plans to privatize
state assets are advancing, though “difficult market conditions
and technical delays” prevented any sales during the third
quarter.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s 2012 budget, approved on
Dec. 7, aims to reduce the fiscal deficit to 5.4 percent of
gross domestic product from 9 percent this year. Efforts to trim
the shortfall have deepened the recession, now in its fourth
year. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
expects the economy to contract by 6.1 percent this year, more
than the 5.5 percent forecast in the government’s budget.  Thomsen said it’s too early to know whether “additional
measures” will be needed to fund Greece. “Our view is that
there is a need to refocus the fiscal program on the expenditure
side. We have reached the limit of what can be achieved through
increase in taxes.”  The IMF and the EU had frozen loan payments last month
after Socialist Premier  George Papandreou  announced a referendum
on the second rescue plan. He later called off the vote,
resigned and was succeeded by ex-central banker Papademos, whose
interim government has the support of three parties to press
ahead with budget cuts needed for continued aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  