-- 
India’s Power Ministry Endorses Tripling Duty on China Equipment

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-12-13T09:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/india-s-power-ministry-endorses-tripling-duty-on-china-equipment.html
India ’s power ministry endorsed a
plan to almost triple import duty on generation equipment to
help local manufacturers  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  and
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  compete for orders with Chinese rivals.  A proposal for increasing  import duties  to 14 percent for
all electricity generation equipment will likely be submitted to
India’s cabinet in January, Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar said
today by telephone from New Delhi. The power ministry opposed a
similar recommendation last year to avoid levying the duty on
near-term orders, Shankar said.  Chinese suppliers won 34 percent of new equipment orders
for additional capacity that’s planned in  Asia ’s second-fastest
growing major economy in the five years ending March 31,
according to the Ministry of Power. The additional duty may help
ease India’s budget deficit, which reached $59 billion in the
seven months to October, or 74.4 percent of the current
financial year target.  “This could be a money-maker for the government, that’s
one reason why it may change its mind this time around,”
Bhargav Buddhadev, vice president at Ambit Capital Pvt., said by
telephone. “For Bharat Heavy, this is nothing but a sentimental
positive. This doesn’t change our outlook for the company as it
won’t deter Chinese companies from competing.”  Orders were placed with Chinese companies for equipment for
21,100 megawatts of the 61,237 megawatts of capacity expected to
be added in the five years ending March, junior power minister
K.C. Venugopal told parliament in  New Delhi  on Dec. 9.  No Special Protection  A panel headed by Planning Commission member Arun Maira
recommended in 2010 the levy of 14 percent in import duties to
“bridge the disadvantage” faced by local manufacturers against
overseas rivals, especially from  China .  Bharat Heavy is asking for a level playing field and is not
seeking any special protection, Chairman B. Prasad Rao said on
Nov. 3 after India’s power equipment makers met Heavy Industries
Minister Praful Patel seeking the 14 percent import duty.  India currently imposes 5 percent customs duty on the
import of equipment orders for projects generating less than
1,000 megawatts.  Bharat Heavy faces competition from Chinese equipment
makers such as  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (601727)  and  Dongfang Electric
Corp Ltd. (600875) , which want to tap into Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan, including
$400 billion for power.  “Even though India has the right to impose a duty, we
think power companies will continue to cooperate,” Wang Xufeng,
minister at the Embassy of China in India, said in an interview
on Dec. 9. “Of course, this will become a business decision for
them.”  -- Editors: John Chacko, Rebecca Keenan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net . 