-- 
Intel Tells Data-Center Customers That 100 Degrees Isn’t Too Hot

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/intel-tells-data-center-customers-that-100-degrees-isn-t-too-hot.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
maker of computer chips, is telling its data-center customers
they can turn up the heat.  Most server and storage computers sit in rooms cooled to a
brisk 64 to 69 degrees Fahrenheit (18 to 21 C), an effort to
avoid hot spots that might cause equipment to malfunction. All
that air conditioning contributes to electricity costs of $26
billion a year. The facilities use 1.5 percent of the  planet ’s
power, and that’s set to double by 2014, Intel says.  By using new software and hardware to get a more detailed
picture of what’s hot and what’s not, data centers can spread
work around to different computers to keep them cool, says Jay Kyathsandra, an Intel marketing manager. That approach, together
with a range of other technologies sold by Intel, could let
technicians eventually turn the heat up past 100 degrees. The
challenge is convincing customers, which count on servers to
keep their businesses running, that the approach is safe.  “For a long time people just kept the  data center  running
at what’s comfortable for humans, because that’s our frame of
reference, but servers can handle a lot more than that,” said
Katie Broderick, an  analyst  at Framingham, Massachusetts-based
research firm IDC.  For Intel, the new technologies may generate a fresh source
of revenue and help keep computer manufacturers loyal. The  Santa
Clara , California-based company, whose chips run more than 90
percent of the world’s servers, cut its fourth-quarter sales
forecast by about $1 billion yesterday. Intel blamed a shortage
of disk drives.  Getting Comfortable  Allowing the average temperature in data centers to rise by
9 degrees would cut $2.16 billion in annual power budgets,
saving the amount of power  Spain  or  South Africa  uses in a
month, according to Intel’s research.  Companies such as Facebook Inc. have already started
operating some of their computer centers at higher temperatures,
helping them save money. Intel wants them to go further. To
prove the benefits of technologies it’s trying to sell, the
company is running one of its own data centers in  New Mexico  at
92 F. The move has produced an estimated 67 percent in power
savings, Intel says.  The approach would mean data centers don’t need air
conditioning -- outside air alone would do the trick -- in more
than 95 percent of the world, according to Intel.  Warranty Concerns  Still, server owners are reluctant to dispense with
cooling, fearing it might void the warranty on their machines,
Intel’s Kyathsandra says. To allay those concerns, Intel is
working with computer makers, including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  NEC Corp. (6701) ,
to change their policies. Those companies now sell machines
certified to operate at higher temperatures, he says.  More cooperation will be needed, says Mark Peters, an
analyst at  Enterprise Strategy Group , an information-technology
advisory firm based in Milford,  Massachusetts . Moving to higher
operating temperatures requires a commitment from other
component suppliers, not just Intel, he says.  “Perhaps the likes of Intel have designed their chips to
run at hotter temperatures without an increased risk of failure,
but historical components haven’t done so yet,” Peters said.  Intel’s software and hardware will let customers monitor
the amount of power individual racks of computers are using and
how much work they’re doing, and then balance those loads out to
keep that machinery working at its most efficient level. While
current software allows monitoring of work levels and power use,
it doesn’t help managers make changes on the fly, he says.  “What’s happening is you don’t have a good sense of what’s
going on at any one point, so you might as well just cool things
across the data center,” Kyathsandra said. “It’s a huge
inefficiency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  