-- 
Investors Press Natural-Gas Drillers to Cut Fracking Risks

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-12-13T14:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/investors-press-natural-gas-drillers-to-cut-risks-from-fracking.html
Natural-gas producers must do more
to reduce environmental harm from hydraulic fracturing and
disclose U.S. drilling risks, according to groups representing
investors with more than $130 billion in assets.  Companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  should identify the
chemicals used and consume less water in fracturing to free gas
trapped in rock, according to a report released today from the
 Investor Environmental Health Network  and the Interfaith Center
on Corporate Responsibility. The groups represent investors such
as Pax World Funds in Portsmouth,  New Hampshire , and Trillium
Asset Management Corp. in  Boston .  The U.S. gets about a third of its gas from fracturing, or
fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break rock and release
trapped fuel. On Dec. 8, The  Environmental Protection Agency 
said for the first time it found chemicals used in fracking in a
drinking-water aquifer in west-central  Wyoming .  “Many companies are moving on their own, but how much
they’re moving and how they compare with other companies is
difficult to tell right now because disclosure is inadequate,”
Richard Liroff, executive director of the Falls Church,
Virginia-based health network and prime writer of the report,
said in an interview. “There’s really nobody who is doing it
uniformly well.”  Technology Advances  Advances in technology let companies expand the use of
fracking in states such as  Pennsylvania  and Ohio. The boom has
led to instances of poor well construction or improper handling
of wastewater, which unnerve some investors, said Liroff, whose
group pushes companies to reduce use of toxic chemicals. The New
York-based  Interfaith Center  backs corporate efforts to improve
the environment.  In the past two years, 21 shareholder resolutions on
fracking have been submitted at annual meetings, according to
Liroff’s group. A proposal by the  Park Foundation , an Ithaca,
 New York , group that supports education and public broadcasting,
urged Irving, Texas-based Exxon to analyze the potential impacts
of fracking and policy options to reduce environmental risks.  The proposal, for Exxon’s May 25 shareholders’ meeting, was
rejected with 72 percent of the votes cast in opposition,
according to the company.  Process Is ‘Old’  “This is not highly regulated in  Texas , and problems with
drinking water have been huge,” Molly Rooke, an Exxon
shareholder, said at the meeting in  Dallas , according to a
company transcript. “I know it’s a process that’s old, but
there are things, as you know, that are new and I encourage
Exxon Mobil to do everything they can to employ the best
procedures.”  Exxon’s board recommended defeat of the resolution, saying
the company “is committed to operating in an environmentally
responsible manner,” and discloses risks associated with
fracking, according to company filings.  “We understand all of those risks very well,” Chief
Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said at the meeting. “The
contamination of fresh water -- shallow-water zones from the
hydraulic fracturing process -- has yet to be substantiated in
any case.”  The EPA on Dec. 8 said that chemicals consistent with those
used in fracking were found in groundwater samples in Pavillion,
Wyoming. Calgary-based  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which owns 123 wells in
Pavillion, said the report was not conclusive.  Cabot, Chesapeake  In Pennsylvania,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  paid settlements after drinking water was fouled by
natural gas, according to the state Department of Environmental
Protection.  An August report from a  task force  named by Energy
Secretary Steven Chu found that companies risk causing serious
environmental damage from fracking unless they commit to the
best engineering practices. New York state has barred fracking
while it weighs environmental rules for the extraction process.  “There have been numerous incidents of poorly constructed
wells, equipment failures, degraded local and regional air
quality, water contamination, strained community relations, and
related government enforcement actions and private lawsuits,”
according to today’s report. “Transparency requires full
disclosure of steps being taken to minimize risks,
acknowledgment of challenges and failures, and clearly defined
steps to continually improve operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  