-- 
Investors May Shun Banks’ Contingent Convertibles as Regulator Adds Limits

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-12-13T10:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/investors-may-shun-coco-bonds-approved-by-european-regulators.html
European banks seeking to meet
capital targets by selling contingent convertible bonds may
struggle to attract investors after regulators imposed limits on
the form the instruments must take.  The  European Banking Authority  said last week lenders could
use the securities, bonds that convert into equity or are
written down if a bank’s capital drops below a set level, to
help plug a 115 billion-euro ($153 billion) capital shortfall.
It published a standard set of terms for the securities, which
investors said were unlikely to be attractive to buyers because
the risk of triggering a conversion is too high and issuers will
have too much control over interest payments.  “The majority of institutions that actually need capital
to reach the EBA target will not be able to attract private
investors for these instruments,” said Satish Pulle, a
portfolio manager at London-based European Credit Management
Ltd., which oversees a fund that invests in CoCos and bank debt.  European regulators are trying to force lenders to boost
their ratio of core Tier 1 capital to 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets to reassure investors they can withstand the sovereign
debt crisis. CoCos allow banks to raise capital without diluting
existing shareholders, something that’s become more attractive
after European bank stocks plunged 34 percent this year.  For CoCos to be counted toward the EBA’s target, the
regulator said they should convert into equity when a lender’s
core Tier 1 capital ratio falls below 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets, a level some investors say is too close to today’s
capital levels.  Lloyds, Rabobank  Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY)  Plc, the U.K.’s largest mortgage
provider, sold 8.5 billion pounds of CoCos in November 2009 that
convert to equity if core capital drops below 5 percent. The
ratio was at 10.3 percent at the end of September.  Rabobank Nederland, Europe’s biggest agricultural lender,
issued $2 billion of the securities in January with an 8 percent
trigger. It has a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.7 percent
today.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second biggest
bank, sold $2 billion of Tier 2 CoCos with a 7 percent trigger
in February and announced plans to issue a further $6.2 billion
of Tier 1 securities in October 2013 at the earliest. The
Zurich-based bank has a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.6
percent.  Credit Suisse offered investors a 7.875 percent coupon on
its Tier 2 securities and plans to offer 9 percent and 9.5
percent coupons on its Tier 1 CoCos. Rabobank paid an 8.375
percent coupon. Struggling banks may need to offer as much as 14
percent to attract investors, according to David Serra, managing
partner at Algebris Investments.  “Strong banks will find it easier to find buyers but they
may decide it is an expensive way to raise capital,” said James Friedman, a partner at the London-based hedge fund, which
invests in CoCos and other bank securities. “For stressed banks
it will be difficult.” Lenders would prefer to reach the target
by reducing assets and retaining earnings rather than selling
CoCos that carry a high  interest rate , he said.  ‘Complete Discretion’  Under the EBA plan, banks also have the option of stopping
interest payments and can repay investors at face value after
five years, potentially depriving buyers of any gains.  “Banks have complete discretion to stop paying the coupon,
which may put some people off,” said  Mike Harrison , a bank
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “They are much closer to
equity than fixed income.”  Romain Sadet, a spokesman for the EBA in London, said
investors were consulted in the process of drafting the term
sheet. The guidelines needed to be “sufficiently strong” for
the securities to comply with the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s rules that come into force in 2013, he said.  Basel Committee  One possible draw for investors is the inclusion of a
clause allowing banks to offer holders the right to convert
their CoCos into shares in the future. “The fact there may be
an option for equity upside is an interesting twist,” said
Algebra’s Friedman.  When Credit Suisse sold its CoCos,  Standard & Poor’s  said
the market for the securities could eventually surpass $1
trillion -- three times the value of all high-yield bond
offerings last year. CoCo sales have so far failed to live up to
that estimate after the sovereign debt crisis roiled credit
markets, and the Basel Committee said in July the instruments
couldn’t be used in the additional capital buffer it will
require the world’s biggest financial institutions to maintain.  The standardized set of terms will make it easier for
governments to inject capital directly into struggling banks
without buying equity, investors said. Governments in Southern
Europe may be forced to provide capital to their lenders if they
are unable to raise capital from investors by the end of June.
Governments may prefer to buy CoCos because they will receive
interest payments and won’t dilute shareholders, investors said.  “These instruments look suitable for sovereign investors,
which would be a welcome development,” said Pulle at European
Credit Management. “We hope this will be a step towards  Europe 
investing in its own banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  