-- 
Iraq Can Lead the Arab World If It Gets Oil Policy Right: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/iraq-can-lead-the-arab-world-if-it-gets-oil-production-policy-right-view.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had many important issues
to discuss yesterday in  Washington : the impending withdrawal of
the last U.S. troops from Iraq, the fragility of democracy
there, the looming presence of  Iran  on its border and so on.  But an item further down the agenda may well be the most
important factor in Iraq’s future: oil.  Iraq possesses the  fourth largest proven oil reserves  on
the planet. That treasure once made the country one of the most
economically developed in the region. If it can re-energize its
 petroleum industry , Iraq, with its emerging democracy, can
become the most advanced nation in the Arab world.  Iraq hopes to increase its oil  production  from 2.7 million
barrels a day now to 13.5 million by 2018. Outside experts think
even half that is a stretch. In any case, a major production
increase will require significantly more investment by foreign
companies, which have the expertise and capital  Iraq  has lost
through decades of war and turmoil. Their enthusiasm, however,
has been dampened by bureaucratic holdups, legal uncertainties
and the diminished state of Iraq’s pipelines, storage
facilities, export terminals and the like.  The red tape companies encounter in Iraq -- when they apply
for employee visas, for example, or try to import equipment or
seek payment -- seems to reflect attitudes rooted in the past.
The oil industry was nationalized in 1972, and the idea of
excluding foreign companies still has resonance, including
within Maliki’s coalition government.  Time to Decide  Iraq’s leadership has a choice: Either create an
administrative environment conducive to foreign investment or
accept a slow growth rate for oil production. The latter is bad
for Iraq and the former needn’t be. Offshore interests can’t be
allowed to plunder Iraq’s reserves. But in the 15 contracts the
central government has signed so far, it has made strong deals
for itself.  The international companies working in the country,
however,  have worries  that Iraqi officials need to resolve.
Iraq’s  2005 constitution  promised a hydrocarbon law that would
settle who had the power to approve what type of deal. Yet no
such legislation exists because the central government and the
semi-autonomous Kurdish region in the north, which has oilfields
only recently being exploited, haven’t agreed on terms.  In August, Maliki’s Cabinet sent  Parliament  a  draft law 
that would let a federal council approve only technical-services
agreements, the type of contract the central government has
granted. With these, companies are compensated for costs plus a
fee per barrel of oil produced. But the Kurds, in their deals
with 43 companies, have signed production-sharing arrangements,
in which the company is responsible for costs but gets a
percentage of any oil that is extracted. Contractors prefer such
terms, which are higher risk but potentially higher yield. They
also seem to make more sense for the northern  oil deposits ,
which are generally fragmented and don’t offer the same ease of
production as the larger fields in the south.  In the absence of a law, Maliki’s government has deemed the
Kurds’ contracts illegal and banned companies that have signed
them from bidding for oil business in the rest of Iraq. Creating
more uncertainty, Baghdad, until earlier this year, denied such
contractors the ability to export the oil they produced in the
Kurdish areas, limiting their sales to the domestic market. For
these reasons, the northern oilfields have attracted mainly
wildcatters and second-tier companies like  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) 
and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Shake Things Up  Having angered Kurdish authorities with its draft law, the
central government agreed to new negotiations. But  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  shook things up in October when it became the first major
 oil company  to sign with the Kurds -- sealing six exploration
deals. It did so while also doing business with the central
government. In response, Baghdad not only blacklisted the
company from the next auction of exploration blocks in Iraq’s
south, it threatened to cancel the company’s 60 percent stake in
developing the giant West Qurna 1 oilfield, which is already
producing 350,000 barrels a day. The U.S. oil giant’s move
defied not only Baghdad but also the U.S. government, which has
warned companies against signing contracts with the Kurds in the
absence of a legal framework.  Still, Exxon’s gambit could prove a positive catalyst, if
Maliki’s government makes the right decisions. Expelling the
company from the West Qurna 1 oilfield, or forcing it to choose
between doing business with the Kurds or the central government,
could scare away other potential partners.  Baghdad  would do
better to support a hydrocarbon law that embraces production-
sharing contracts for the north and technical-services
agreements for the southern fields.  Many Baghdad officials worry that giving in on the issue
will feed the Kurds’ desire for more independence. It may.
However, refusing to legitimize the Kurdish contracts is already
having that effect, while perpetuating the legal uncertainty.
The sooner that fuzziness is resolved, the sooner Iraq can get
the help it needs to accelerate oil production.  Increasing output will generate the money Iraq requires to
renovate its oil infrastructure, which will allow still greater
production. Corroded pipelines need to be replaced. A system for
bringing water, which facilitates oil flow, from the  Persian
Gulf  to the oilfields needs to be completed. New storage
facilities and export terminals, replacing those destroyed as
long ago as the 1980s Iran-Iraq war, must be built.  The Iraqis estimate it may take $50 billion in investments
in these systems to get production up to 6 million barrels per
day. That money will be hard to come by if the Maliki government
keeps getting in the way of foreign investment.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 