-- 
Jaczko’s Outbursts Undermine NRC, U.S. House Republicans Say

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-12-13T21:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/jaczko-s-outbursts-undermine-nrc-u-s-house-republicans-say-1-.html
Gregory Jaczko ’s “propensity for
angry outbursts and aggressive behavior” as chairman of the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  has created a toxic environment at
the safety regulator, Republicans on a U.S. House panel said.  Jaczko “gaveled down a fellow commissioner in mid-
sentence” at a July 18 meeting amid objections to his plan for
reactor safety after  Japan ’s nuclear crisis, “stormed out” and
announced his proposal at a news conference, in an incident
cited in the report today from Republicans on the U.S. House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  House Republicans  are investigating discord at the NRC,
citing an Oct. 13 letter from the four other commissioners to
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  that expressed “grave
concerns” about Jaczko, named chairman by President  Barack Obama . The commission is responsible for regulating the 104
commercial reactors in the U.S. and is weighing applications for
a new generation of  power plants .  “The leadership of Chairman Gregory Jaczko has undermined
commissioners, staff and the public confidence that the NRC can
continue to remain focused on its vital mission,” according to
today’s report by the committee, which will hear testimony
tomorrow from all of the commissioners.  Jaczko “will be happy to discuss these issues during his
appearance before the committee,”  Eliot Brenner , a spokesman
for the chairman, said today in an e-mail.  Jaczko Ouster Sought  Jaczko should be removed as chairman to restore trust in
the agency and its “ability to regulate our nuclear industry,”
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican who heads the
energy and power panel of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, said today in a letter to Obama.  Jaczko, in a Dec. 7 letter to Daley responding to his
colleagues’ concerns, said the commission’s majority has
“loosened the agency’s safety standards” over his opposition.  The White House chief of staff told the  House Oversight 
Committee yesterday in a letter that the divisions at the NRC
stem from different views of the chairman’s authority.  “We have concluded that while there are tensions and
disagreements among the commissioners, these management
differences have not impaired the commission’s ability to
fulfill its mission,” Daley wrote to the committee in the
letter released last night by the White House.  Jaczko, Svinicki Meeting  The committee report cites a meeting between Jaczko and
Commissioner Kristine Svinicki in her office that “got out of
hand,” prompting her to request that he leave. He remained in
the office, according to the report, citing an interview with
Jeffry Sharkey, Svinicki’s chief of staff.  “I can see the chairman is very agitated, he is sitting
down, but he is clearly very agitated,” Sharkey told the
committee staff. He said Svinicki’s request that Jaczko leave
“got him to calm down a little bit.”  The Republican’s report said Jaczko may have let political
considerations influence the commission’s actions. His chief of
staff suggested that Commissioner William Magwood, appointed byObama, may be viewed as disloyal for a vote in favor of
continuing work on Yucca Mountain, a nuclear-waste repository
the Energy Department moved to kill after Obama opposed the site
during the 2008 campaign, according to the report.  Jaczko, a former science adviser to Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , has denied that politics has played a role in his
decisions. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, is a long-time Yucca
opponent.  ‘Blatant Disregard’  “His actions undermine the commission structure and
demonstrate a blatant disregard for decades of established
practice at the NRC,” the report said of Jaczko.  “I tend to argue vociferously for my positions, and I
think that’s healthy,” Jaczko said during a Dec. 8 interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters office in  New York .  Jaczko has attributed his authority to powers granted to
the NRC chairman in 1980, following a partial meltdown at the
Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ,
the previous year.  Other commissioners have a “lack of understanding” about
their role on the regulatory board, which is limited to
“policymaking, rulemaking and adjudications,” Jaczko said in
his letter to Daley. He called his colleagues’ accusations
“absurd.”  “Chairman Jaczko broadly interprets the authority granted
to the NRC chairman,” the House committee report said. His
interpretation of the 1980 reorganization plan “has been his
justification for centralizing power within his office, limiting
the role of the other four commissioners and exerting greater
control over the NRC staff,” it said.  ‘Shaking Angry’  NRC staff were “forced to adapt” to Jaczko’s vision of
the agency’s actions after the disaster at  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, caused by a March
earthquake and tsunami, according to the report.  Jaczko was “shaking angry” during a July meeting with
Martin J. Virgilio, the deputy executive director for reactor
and preparedness programs, according to the report. Jaczko
believed a document prepared for a commission vote didn’t match
his views and “demonstrated a lack of support” for the task-
force that examined U.S. reactor safety after the Fukushima
incident, Virgilio said, according to the report.  Jaczko has used his status as the NRC’s chairman to
pressure staff to support him, the report said.  “This tactic leaves NRC staff to decide between following
the chairman’s orders to the dismay of the majority” or
“disobeying the chairman and incurring his wrath,” it said.  The themes raised by the committee echo a June 6 report by
the agency’s inspector general, which said Jaczko “was not
forthcoming” with his colleagues about his intent to stop work
on Yucca Mountain and questioned his management style.  “Jaczko acknowledged that he sometimes loses his temper,”
Inspector General Hubert T. Bell said in his report, which found
that the NRC chairman acted within the law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  