-- 
Sandusky Waived Hearing in Abuse Case After Last-Minute, Late-Night Talks

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-12-13T20:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/jerry-sandusky-waives-preliminary-hearing-in-penn-state-sex-abuse-case.html
Jerry Sandusky’s lawyer and
prosecutors negotiated late into last night to set the stage for
the abbreviated preliminary hearing in the child sex-abuse case
against the former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant
football coach.  Sandusky, 67, waived his right to the hearing at the start
of the 8:30 a.m. session today in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania,
where some of his accusers were set to testify. He also waived
an arraignment, pleading not guilty to more than 40 criminal
counts related to the alleged molestation of 10 boys from 1994
to 2009. The decision was made at 10:30 p.m. yesterday after
talks with prosecutors by phone, his attorney, Joseph Amendola,
said in an interview.  Amendola said he got commitments from the prosecutors to
expedite evidence sharing and to maintain bail terms in exchange
for the waiver. The deal may backfire on the defense, a former
prosecutor said. By choosing not to question the 11 witnesses
set to testify today, Amendola and his client are forgoing
valuable information they could use at trial.  “In a preliminary hearing, you have the right to confront
your accusers, you have the right to cross-examine witnesses.
It’s a very helpful and powerful tool for a trial lawyer,” said
Jack McMahon, a former prosecutor in the Philadelphia District
Attorney’s office. “It doesn’t make sense to give up that
important right.”  First Charges  Sandusky was initially charged on Nov. 5 with crimes
involving eight boys. He was rearrested last week and charged
with more crimes after two new accusers came forward. The
charges include nine counts of involuntary deviate sexual
intercourse, each punishable by as much as 20 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Sandusky used Second Mile, a children’s
charity he founded, to recruit victims, befriending them and
“grooming” them with gifts, trips to football games and money.
The alleged victims ranged in age from 10 to 15 when the abuse
occurred, according to court documents.  Sandusky appeared nervous and tired at the start of court
today. Amendola said his client was “exhausted.”  In addition to the evidence-sharing agreement, prosecutors
said they wouldn’t amend Sandusky’s bail terms should any new
charges arise, according to Amendola. Sandusky remains under
house arrest after posting $250,000 bail.  “If there is a strategy here at all, it has to be that
plea negotiations are already well under way,” said Wes Oliver,
an associate law professor at Widener Law School’s Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, campus.  Evidence Sharing  Oliver, who attended today’s hearing, dismissed Amendola’s
explanation about evidence sharing. Prosecutors are already
required to turn over documents at the conclusion of a
preliminary hearing, Oliver said.  The agreement on bail was crucial for the defense, because
it’s easier to represent a client who’s not in jail, said Karl
Rominger, an attorney from Carlisle, Pennsylvania, who is
working with Amendola as a consultant. Talks stalled as both
sides waited for the other to “blink first,” Rominger said.  “Last night both sides blinked,” he said.  There are no discussions of a plea deal, and Sandusky will
proceed to trial, Senior Deputy Attorney General Marc Costanzo
and Amendola said today. Sandusky’s next scheduled court date is
a March 22 pretrial conference, according to the court website.  Amendola said his client wouldn’t attend. Sandusky left the
courthouse with his family and some supporters, including past
Second Mile participants, without speaking to reporters.  ‘Relive the Horror’  “This is terrific for my client, all the other victims who
did not have to relive the horror on the stand,” said Michael
Boni, a lawyer for one of Sandusky’s accusers, identified in
charging documents as Victim 1. Boni said his client was ready
to testify.  Slade McLaughlin, who also represents Victim 1, said
Sandusky was within his rights to waive the hearing.  “All it really did was shake up the victims,” he said.  Ben Andreozzi, an attorney for Victim 4, said his client
was “nervous and shaking” before the hearing.  “Regardless of the decision to waive the hearing, nothing
has changed,” Victim 4 said in a statement. “I will still stand
my ground, testify and speak the truth.”  Victim 4, now 27, told the grand jury that Sandusky
sexually assaulted him on several occasions in locker room
showers in  Penn State ’s football practice building and at a
local hotel where the Nittany Lions stayed before home games. He
said he also attended the 1999 Alamo Bowl in  Texas  where
Sandusky threatened to send him home when he resisted his
advances, according to court documents.  ‘Back Cracking’  Victim 1, now a high school student, told the grand jury
that he met Sandusky through Second Mile in 2005 or 2006. He
would often stay overnight at Sandusky’s residence where “back
cracking” became a ritual that led to Sandusky performing oral
sex on him more than 20 times from 2007 to early 2008, according
to court documents.  Victim 1 broke off contact with Sandusky in 2008 and
Sandusky called him more than 100 times between January 2008 and
July 2009, according to the grand jury report.  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of university
President Graham Spanier and head football coach  Joe Paterno ,
whom Sandusky worked under for 30 years. Paterno and Spanier
weren’t charged with any criminal wrongdoing.  Officials Charged  Two other Penn State officials, athletic director Timothy Curley and former vice president  Gary Schultz , were charged with
perjury and failing to report allegations of child sex abuse
against Sandusky. Both have denied the charges and are scheduled
to appear in court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, this week.  “Mr. Curley and Mr. Schultz look forward to the preliminary
hearing to start the process of clearing their good names and
demonstrating that they testified truthfully to the grand jury,”
their attorneys, Caroline Roberto and Tom Farrell, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Howard Janet, the lawyer for an accuser identified in the
grand jury report as Victim 6, said his client “was here and
prepared to testify.” He said the accuser and his mother wanted
charges filed against Sandusky in 1998. Today was his client’s
chance to tell his story, Janet said.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, MJ-
49201-cr-0000636-2011, Magisterial District Court, Centre
County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Woolner  in Bellefonte at 
 awooolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  