-- 
Jive Surges in Trading Debut After Pricing IPO Above Range

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-12-13T22:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/jive-software-raises-161-3-million-in-ipo-after-pricing-above-its-range.html
Jive Software Inc. , a company that
helps businesses communicate using Facebook-style tools, jumped
25 percent in its first day of trading, signaling that investors
remain hungry for social-networking stocks.  The shares climbed to $15.05 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, a
day after the  Palo Alto , California-based company priced its
stock at a higher-than-expected level in an initial public
offering. Jive sold 13.4 million shares at $12 apiece, topping
an earlier proposal to offer 11.7 million for $8 to $10 each.  Jive is capitalizing on the popularity of Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. by bringing social features to the business world.
Revenue at the company, which counts  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , Avon Products
Inc., Yum! Brands Inc. and Nike Inc. among its clients, has
surged in the past three years as workers seek new ways to
communicate with their colleagues, customers and suppliers.  “Consumers have led this generation of technology, and
enterprises are now being forced to catch up,” said Jive
investor Trevor Loy, a general partner at Flywheel Ventures in
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “The story of Jive is just now being
heard by mainstream enterprise customers.”  Jive competes with a phalanx of social-media startups, as
well as established business-software companies such as
Salesforce.com Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
The IPO performance helps set the company apart from its rivals,
Chief Executive Officer Tony Zingale said.  ‘Very High Bar’  “Going public is a very high bar, and we just distanced
ourselves from all the wannabes in the space that deliver a
piece of the offering,” he said in an interview today. “It just
got much harder for them to compete.”  Jive’s sales climbed 73 percent to $54.8 million in the
first nine months of the year. Even so, increasing spending on
product development, marketing and overhead has widened losses.
Jive posted a  net loss  of $38.1 million in the period, compared
with $20.9 million a year earlier.  With outstanding shares of 59.1 million, Jive has a market
value of $888.9 million. That’s about 13 times its trailing 12-
month sales -- a much richer valuation than those of its larger
rivals. The ratio is about 3 for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and 2.1 for
IBM, which are both named as competitors in Jive’s IPO filings.  IPO Flurry  Jive is one of 11 companies seeking to raise a total of
$3.8 billion in U.S. IPOs this week, the most since March. At
least three other U.S. companies that sell software as a service
have registered for IPOs since August.  ExactTarget Inc. , a
provider of e-mail marketing services, filed in November, three
months after rival Eloqua Ltd. Bazaarvoice Inc., whose software
helps companies communicate with their customers, announced IPO
plans the same month.  Jive’s IPO may pave the way for other developers of online
business software to go public in the next year or two, said
Zach Nelson, CEO of the Web-based accounting-software maker
NetSuite Inc., a supplier to Jive.  The list may include  Workday Inc. , a startup that handles
human resources, finances and payroll for companies. The
startup, which announced $85 million in funding from investors
such as T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in October,
may go public next year or in 2013, Nelson said. Trustwave
Holdings Inc., which delayed its offering on Aug. 10, also might
sell shares to the public next year, said Nelson, who sits on
Trustwave’s board.  “Jive is a great example of what can happen,” he said.  Paying Down Debt  About $20 million raised in the Jive IPO will be used to
pay down loans, according to regulatory filings. Morgan Stanley
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managed the offering.  Sequoia Capital , the biggest Jive shareholder, and Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, another venture backer, didn’t plan to
sell shares. According to regulatory filings, their stakes will
be 29 percent and 11 percent, respectively, after the IPO.  Co-founders Matthew Tucker and Bill Lynch, who owned about
14 percent each before the IPO, will see their stakes cut to 11
percent apiece. Zingale, the CEO, is trimming his ownership to
about 5 percent from 7 percent.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service, is
making preparations for its own IPO, a person with knowledge of
the matter said last month. The company may raise about $10
billion in a deal that would value it at more than $100 billion,
the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  