-- 
Jonathan to Push Spending Curbs in Nigeria to Narrow Budget Gap

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-12-13T07:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/jonathan-to-push-spending-curbs-in-nigeria-to-narrow-budget-gap.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan
is pushing to curb spending on wages and scrap fuel subsidies
next year to help narrow the  budget deficit  in  Africa ’s largest
oil producer.  Jonathan, who will give his budget speech in Parliament in
Abuja at 12 p.m., may raise spending by 7 percent to 4.8
trillion naira ($29.6 billion) in 2012, according to a medium-
term fiscal plan published by the Budget Office on Oct. 5. The
deficit is set to narrow to 2.7 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 3.6 percent in 2011.  Nigeria spends more than 70 percent of its budget on
recurrent expenditure, such as salaries, diverting funds from
building  power plants , houses and roads that’s needed to sustain
growth in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest  economy . Jonathan
wants to scrap fuel subsidies to save the government 1.2
trillion naira a year, a move opposed by lawmakers and labor
unions because it threatens to boost  costs  in a nation of more
than 160 million people.  “The country has been living beyond its means for some
time, with little to show for it,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in
an e-mail. “An awful lot has ‘gone’ in the way of recurrent
spending recently.”  Jonathan’s government plans to raise  capital spending  to
27.5 percent of total expenditure in 2012 from 25.6 percent this
year, according to the medium-term plan. Recurrent spending is
set to decline 1.9 percentage points to 72.5 percent.  Minimum Wages  The spending cuts will be difficult because it requires a
reduction in wages, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said on
Oct. 20. The government doubled minimum wages for state workers
in August.  Government spending , which soared in 2010 as the government
prepared to hold elections in April, fell to 4.5 trillion naira
in 2011 from 5.2 trillion naira last year. The medium-term plan
estimates expenditure will grow 2.5 percent in 2013 and 2.2
percent in the year after that.  The budget is based on an oil price of $70 a barrel, with
the government required to save proceeds if the international
oil price exceeds that. Oil makes up about 80 percent of state
revenue and more than 95 percent of export income.  Crude oil has jumped 10 percent in  New York  since the
beginning of September and was trading as high as $98.05 a
barrel today.  Jonathan is facing opposition in scrapping fuel subsidies.
Parliament’s lower house rejected the plan on Dec. 1, saying it
was “premature” to be included in the budget program for 2012.
The Senate can still approve the proposals.  “In the end you’ve got to make unpopular decisions as the
government about these things,”  David Cowan , sub-Saharan Africa
economist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a phone
interview. “It’s better to make it early in the life of an
elected government and get it over and done with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  