-- 
JPMorgan Actions as MF Global Lender Likely to Be Probed

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-13T20:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/jpmorgan-actions-as-mf-global-lender-likely-to-be-probed-2-.html
The liquidator of the  MF Global Inc. 
brokerage said that “certain” actions of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
a lender to the broker-dealer’s parent, “are likely to be the
subject of investigation.”  The trustee, James Giddens, said he would “act with the
respect to” those actions to recover money for brokerage
customers if necessary. If the bank received so-called
preferential payments before the brokerage went into
liquidation, or other payments, he would deal “appropriately”
with the transfers or other issues, he said.  “HHR may threaten or bring an action against JPM in the
context of a potential dispute between” the bank and the
brokerage, he said in a court filing yesterday. Giddens’s law
firm is  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP , or HHR.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, was agent for a $1.2
billion loan to the broker-dealer’s parent, and also for a $300
million loan to the brokerage, according to the filing. Giddens
made the statement about suing the bank after a judge asked him
if he was disinterested enough to litigate in light of past work
for JPMorgan.  The broker-dealer paid JPMorgan and the other secured
lenders back for the $300 million loan, Giddens said. He didn’t
know yet if the bank was still a creditor of the brokerage.  Not a Client  JPMorgan isn’t a “current client” of the  law firm ,
Giddens told the  Manhattan  federal judge. Giddens’s firm ended
“minor” patent and other work for JPMorgan and collected less
than $2,000 in fees from the bank in 2011 and less than $35,000
in 2009 and 2010, Giddens said.  The brokerage’s parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., is in a
separate court proceeding.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment on Gidden’s statement about lawsuits.  Three transfers of collateral made and pending will give
commodity customers about $4 billion of their assets, according
to court filings. Giddens is due to testify on his progress in
 Washington  today before the Senate Agriculture Committee.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  