-- 
Kenyan Shilling Strengthens as IMF Grants $143.7 Million Funding

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-13T09:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/kenyan-shilling-strengthens-as-imf-grants-143-7-million-funding.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for
the first day in three after the central bank said funding from
the  International Monetary Fund  will help stabilise the
currency.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
0.4 percent to 89.18 per dollar as of 12:53 a.m. in Nairobi.  The IMF executive board completed the second review of
Kenya under the Extended Credit Facility and approved
“immediate disbursement of an amount equivalent to $143.7
million,” the board  announced  on Dec 9. Yesterday was a public
holiday.  “It’s going to support us in the policy effort that we
have to stabilize the  exchange rate ,” central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u told reporters in the capital, Nairobi, today.
“We believe that we will win the war against inflation.”  Uganda’s currency strengthened for the second day, reaching
the highest in almost six months, on increased dollar inflow
from Ugandans living abroad and reduced dollar demand from
businesses.  The shilling gained 0.3 percent to 2,443 per dollar, the
highest since June 20.  “The shilling has gained because of dollar inflows from
Ugandans living abroad amid low demand in the market as
businesses wind down their operations for the year,” Walter
Mananu, a currency trader at Bank of Africa  Uganda  Ltd. said by
phone from Kampala.  The Tanzania shilling gained for the fourth day, rising 0.1
percent to 1,612 as businesses prepare to pay taxes and on
increase dollar inflows from non-governmental organisation.  “We are receiving inflows from corporate clients who are
offloading dollars to get shilling for making tax-related
payments at this time of the year, and non-governmental
organisations,” Hamis Mwakibete, Head Trading Commercial Bank
of Africa Tanzania said by phone today from Dare es Salaam, the
commercial Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  