-- 
Kenyan Shilling Strengthens on Reduced Money Supply, IMF Funding

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-13T15:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/kenyan-shilling-strengthens-on-reduced-money-supply-imf-funding.html
Kenya’s shilling strengthened to a
five-month high after the central bank restricted  money supply 
by accepting just 21% of repo bids submitted and said funding
from the  International Monetary Fund  will help fight inflation.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.8 percent to 88.75 per dollar before paring its
gain to 0.6 percent at 89 as of 6:40 p.m. in Nairobi. A close at
this level will be the highest since Jul 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s central bank restricted liquidity released into the
system via repurchase agreements. The bank received 9.55 billion
shillings of bids for the 2 billion shillings it offered, Donald
Murgor, an official at the bank’s money-market department, said
by phone from Nairobi today. Of that, it accepted 2 billion
shillings ($22.5 million) of bids for seven-day repo at a
weighted average rate of 14.156 percent.  The IMF executive board approved “immediate disbursement
of an amount equivalent to $143.7 million” after completing the
second review of  Kenya  under its Extended Credit Facility, the
board  announced  on Dec 9. Yesterday was a public holiday.  “It’s going to support us in the policy effort that we
have to stabilize the  exchange rate ,” Central Bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u told reporters in the capital, Nairobi, today.
“We believe that we will win the war against inflation.”  Ugandan Shilling Stronger  Uganda’s currency, which strengthened for a fifth day,
appreciated 0.2 percent to 2,445 per dollar, the maximum since
June 14. “The shilling has gained because of dollar inflows
from Ugandans living abroad amid low demand in the market as
businesses wind down their operations for the year,” Walter
Mananu, a currency trader at Bank of Africa  Uganda  Ltd. said by
phone from Kampala.  The Tanzania shilling hardened for the fourth day, rising
0.5 percent to 1,605 as businesses prepare to pay taxes and on
increase dollar inflow from non-governmental organization.  “We are receiving inflows from corporate clients who are
offloading dollars to get shilling for making tax-related
payments at this time of the year, and non-governmental
organizations,” Hamis Mwakibete, head of trading at Commercial
Bank of Africa Tanzania, said by phone today from Dare es
Salaam, the commercial Capital.  -- Editors: Ash Kumar, Stephen Kirkland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  