-- 
Killing Whales Matters More Than Saving People: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-12-13T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/killing-whales-matters-more-than-saving-people-william-pesek.html
Want to know why  Japan ’s earthquake
recovery efforts are moving in slow motion? Ask the whales.  Tokyoites have grown accustomed to shocking news items
since the earth shook and the oceans rose: the nuclear meltdown
has proven far worse than the government admitted; radioactive
cesium made its way into  baby food ; more leaks were found in the
damaged Fukushima reactor; warnings by seismologists still go
unheeded.  Yet the tale of the whales and the $30 million is what
proved most disturbing -- and shed fresh light on why Japan is
either unable or unwilling to undertake the broad reforms needed
to avert credit-rating downgrades and reverse deepening
deflation.  Japan spent about 2.28 billion yen on whaling hunting
expeditions from funds allocated for recovery from the
earthquake and tsunami. It’s a drop in the proverbial bucket,
given that the government plans to spend at least $300 billion
rebuilding the Tohoku region. It’s a highly telling expenditure,
though, with significance far beyond the price tag.  The whaling programs carried out each year flout
international conventions and dent Japan’s reputation, and for
very little. Demand for whale meat is negligible: The industry
survives because of huge public subsidies. Japan contends that
using earthquake funds to boost security for ships will help
them elude  activists  protecting whales. A successful hunt, it’s
thought, will revitalize local coastal communities.  Fresh Thinking  You know what would help more? Some fresh thinking. The
devastation from March 11 required new ways of viewing and
addressing  Japan ’s creaky economic model, aging population and
waning competitiveness. It necessitated a reboot of politics,
the government’s role in the economy and Japan’s change-
resistant, consensus-obsessed mindset. What we’re seeing instead
is an inability to adapt on a national level.  Nine months ago, the ground shifted under Japan’s feet not
only literally, but figuratively. There was a fleeting glimmer
of change, a hope that the disaster would end the political and
economic stasis that has gripped Japan for more than two
decades. Instead, tossing money at every problem without
critical thought suggests that Japan is reverting to the
wasteful ways that created a massive national debt and little
growth to show for it.  One big question that hasn’t been tackled: Whether to
bother rebuilding parts of Japan’s northeast -- given that they
were dying a slow, steady demographic death anyway -- or
relocate the communities away from the sea. Rather than grapple
with it, Japan is pursuing whaling. But you have to wonder: How
many young people who long ago fled to cities like  Tokyo  are
going to rush back to their ancestral homes to become whalers?  S&P Circling  Consider what the brain trust in  Tokyo  is up to. Last
month,  Standard & Poor’s  hinted that another credit downgrade is
brewing as Japan’s public debt, already the developed world’s
largest, increases unchecked by distracted lawmakers. So how do
they spend their time? In tit-for-tat one-upmanship.  In November, a deputy to Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa
was fired for comparing the relocation of a U.S. airbase on the
island of Okinawa to rape. Rather than move on and tend to the
many dilemmas facing Japan, lawmakers spent last week crafting
censure motions for the ousted official’s bosses. That’s a week
that will never be used for developing strategies to address
anemic growth, deflation, a shrinking workforce,  Chinese 
competition or rebuilding needs.  Both story lines, supporting whalers and pointless
political posturing, are microcosms of why Japan isn’t rising to
this year’s challenges. What we have is a failure to adapt to a
dynamic set of problems that threaten economic well-being.  Tepco’s Failures  Take  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , a poster child of bad
management that makes the shenanigans at Olympus Corp. look
harmless. Tepco’s safety failures are responsible for the
radiation still leaking into the air and water 135 miles from
Tokyo. Yet Tepco hasn’t been nationalized or delisted from the
stock exchange. Instead of reform, there’s talk of bailouts.  Japan is a top-down society. Right now, mayors in the
northeast need a figure: how much they will get to fix airports,
train stations, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals,
telecommunications and ports. It’s hard to hire architects,
assemble construction crews and procure materials when you don’t
know your budget. Tokyo, instead, is obsessed with political
infighting and old remedies for very new quandaries.  Bureaucracy  is running amok. There’s great confusion about
who is handling what phase of reconstruction -- the central
government or local ones? Rural leaders fed up with all the
foot-dragging are finding it’s not easy to forge ahead on their
own. There are endless stories of towns that want to rebuild
schools or hospitals on higher ground to avoid tsunamis only to
find that regulations say they must be put up in the same place.  The upshot is that trust is breaking down on too many
levels. Companies are reluctant to hire, communities are split
between those who want to stay and those tempted to leave,
citizens don’t buy the nuclear industry’s protestations of
safety, and cynicism toward officialdom in Tokyo has rarely been
higher.  It’s not a great environment for economic revival, never
mind any semblance of confidence as  Europe ’s crisis foreshadows
a global economic slowdown. That’s what happens in a country
that gives higher priority to killing whales than to reassuring
a traumatized population.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  