-- 
KISS Frontman Simmons Was Victim of Web Hacking by ‘Anonymous,’ U.S. Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T22:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/kiss-s-gene-simmons-was-victim-of-web-site-hacking-by-anonymous-u-s-says.html
Prosecutors unmasked an alleged
member of the Anonymous hacking collective who they charged with
shutting down the  website  of Gene Simmons, frontman for the rock
band KISS and a critic of music piracy.  Kevin George Poe, 24, of Manchester,  Connecticut , who used
the screen name “spydr101,” was taken into custody today
without incident in Hartford and later was released on a $10,000
bond, the U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles said in a statement. He’s
accused of waging a denial of service attack on GeneSimmons.com.  A judge ordered Poe to appear in federal court in Los
Angeles on a date that has yet to be determined. If convicted,
he faces as long as 15 years in prison.  A federal grand jury in Los Angeles returned an indictment
last week that accused Poe of being affiliated with the
Anonymous hacking group. He’s accused, with the help of other
hackers, of attacking Simmons’s computer systems in October of
last year, rendering the website useless, according to the
statement.  Deirdre Murray, a federal public defender who represented
Poe at today’s hearing, didn’t immediately return a call to her
office.  Anonymous, a group of self-styled hacker-activists behind
attacks on corporate and government websites, has in the past
targeted sites of organizations fighting online piracy,
including the  Motion Picture Association  of America and the
 Recording Industry Association of America .  Music Industry   At a media conference in Cannes,  France , last year, Simmons
said that the music industry allowed itself to be destroyed by
not being aggressive enough fighting illegal downloads of songs
from the start.  “The music industry was asleep at the wheel,” Simmons
said during a panel discussion posted on YouTube. “It didn’t
have the balls to go and sue every fresh-faced, freckle-faced
college kid who downloaded material, and so now we’re left with
hundreds of thousands of people without jobs. There’s no
industry.”  Simmons said entrepreneurs needed to be litigious to
protect their brands and “sue everybody.”  “Take their homes, their cars,” Simmons said. “Don’t let
anybody cross that line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefanie Batcho-Lino at 
 sbatcholino1@bloomberg.net 
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 