-- 
Kraft, Kellogg Sue Egg Companies Claiming Antitrust Breach

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-13T21:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/kraft-kellogg-nestle-sue-egg-producers-over-pricing.html
Kellogg Co. (K) ,  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and
units of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Nestle (NESN)  SA sued  Cal-Maine Foods
Inc. (CALM)  and 10 more egg producers for allegedly conspiring to
control prices and supplies in violation of antitrust laws.  The plaintiffs, among the world’s biggest makers of
packaged food, said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Chicago that they suffered damages as a result of the
alleged conspiracy to control the supply of eggs and to
artificially maintain and increase pricing.  “Defendants and their co-conspirators controlled and
manipulated capacity for production of eggs and egg products,”
according to the complaint.  The companies are seeking a court order barring the egg
producers’ alleged improper acts and money damages, which can be
tripled under federal antitrust law.  Timothy Dawson, chief financial officer of Jackson,
Mississippi-based Cal-Maine, said the allegations are similar to
those in lawsuits filed in  Pennsylvania . He said the company
would defend against this one, too.  “We are aware of it,” Dawson said in a phone interview.
“This is just another one of those suits.” He declined to
comment further.  Cal-Maine is the biggest U.S. producer of fresh eggs,
according to its website.  Among the other defendants are  Daybreak Foods Inc .,
Hillandale Farms of Pa. Inc., Michael Foods Inc., Sparboe Farms
Inc. and the cooperatives United Egg Producers Inc. and United
States Egg Marketers Inc.  The case is Kraft Foods Global Inc. v. United Egg Producers
Inc., 11-cv-8808, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  