-- 
National Bank of Greece to Boost Capital by Preferred Shares

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-12-13T18:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/national-bank-of-greece-to-boost-capital-by-preferred-shares-1-.html
National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the
country’s biggest lender, will seek shareholder approval to sell
preferred shares to the Greek state in a bid to raise as much as
1 billion euros and boost capital.  The sale will boost the bank’s capital adequacy ratio to 11
percent from a current 9.5 percent, according to an Athens
bourse filing today. A shareholder meeting will be held on Dec.
22.  Following the sale, the preferred shares will account for
about 2 percent of National’s assets, compared with 0.5 percent
today, according to the statement. The decision was taken to
bolster capital amid a deteriorating situation in Greece and
abroad.  National Bank had a net loss of 1.35 billion euros ($1.8
billion) in the first nine months of the year, compared with a
259 million-euro profit in the year-earlier period, the Athens-
based lender said last month as it wrote down holdings of
government debt and clients pulled deposits amid concerns in
 Greece  over the country’s economy.  Environment Worsened  The business environment worsened in the final quarter of
the year, with Greek  bank deposits  in October declining the most
since Greece joined the euro in 2001 amid uncertainty over
continued financing for the country from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . Former prime minister  George
Papandreou  then roiled markets by planning a referendum on a
second rescue package.  European Union leaders agreed on a 130 billion-euro bailout
package for Greece on Oct. 26 after inspectors from the EU and
the IMF determined that a 110 billion-euro bailout in May 2010
package wouldn’t be enough to keep the country’s debt to a
sustainable level. The European Commission forecast last month
that Greece’s debt would reach almost twice the size of its
economy next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen  at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  