-- 
New York Mets Receive $40 Million Bank of America Bridge Loan, NYT Reports

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/new-york-mets-receive-40-million-bank-loan-new-york-times-reports.html
The  New York Mets  have received a
$40 million bank loan since the end of the baseball season as
they try to raise money through the sale of minority stakes in
the club, the New York Times reported.  “The bridge loan was approved by Major League Baseball and
the syndicate of lenders to the Mets,” the team said in an e-
mailed statement last night. “The process for the sale of
minority shares in the team continues to go very well.”  The Mets received a $25 million loan from MLB a year ago.
The $40 million was made available in the past six weeks from
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the Times said, basing its report on a
person with knowledge of the deal who requested anonymity.  Mets owner  Fred Wilpon  said the team lost $51 million in
2010. General Manager Sandy Alderson told reporters at
baseball’s Winter Meetings in Dallas last week that the club
lost $70 million in 2011.  Wilpon remains in a legal battle with the trustee in charge
of recovering money for investors in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme.  The Mets offered to sell a minority stake in the team due
to the Madoff lawsuit.  David Einhorn , the manager of New York’s
$7.8 billion Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund, offered $200
million for a 33 percent interest before he withdrew because he
said the team had changed contract terms at the last minute.  “We will engage with other individuals, some who have been
previously vetted by  Major League Baseball , along with other
interested parties, regarding a potential minority investment
into the franchise,” Wilpon said in the Sept. 1 statement
announcing the end of discussions with Einhorn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  