-- 
Norilsk Sees Platinum Group Metals Demand Rising 5% Next Year

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-12-13T19:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/norilsk-sees-platinum-group-metals-demand-rising-5-next-year.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , the world’s
biggest producer of nickel and palladium, predicts demand for
platinum group metals will rise as much as 5 percent next year,
exceeding increases of as much as 3 percent for copper and
nickel, as the global economy avoids a slump as severe as that
seen in 2008.  The company expects platinum group metals prices will rise
next year and doesn’t see “fundamental reasons” for copper and
nickel prices to fall, Anton Berlin, head of Norilsk’s analysis
and market research department, said today in a telephone
interview from Moscow. He declined to give specific forecasts.
Norilsk’s production will be little changed next year, he said.  “The increase in production should be expected after year
2020,” Berlin said. “We don’t have a possibility to increase
output quickly. There is no excessive capacity to produce more
palladium even if the price jumps.”  Berlin said demand for metals will increase next year as
the worldwide economic situation is “very different” from what
was seen in 2008, after the collapse of the U.S. housing market
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. spurred a global credit crunch
and economic slump.  “We don’t expect a crisis,” he said.  The company  has said it produces about 45 percent of the
world’s palladium, a metal used in catalytic converters for
vehicles.  Norilsk Nickel  says it produces about 20 percent of
the world’s nickel, and accounts for 11 percent of platinum
output and 2 percent of copper production.  Berlin says he expects  Russia , the world’s biggest supplier
of palladium, to cut back on exports of the metal next year. The
size of Russia’s palladium stockpiles is a state secret.  “Palladium prices will inevitably increase” next year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  