-- 
Norway May Deliver First Rate Cut Since 2009

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/norway-may-deliver-first-rate-cut-since-2009-on-euro-debt-crisis.html
Norway ’s central bank will probably
reduce its  benchmark interest rate  for the first time in more
than two years as Europe’s debt crisis threatens growth and
policy makers seek to check gains in the krone.  Norges Bank will cut its overnight deposit rate to 2
percent from 2.25 percent today, reversing part of a tightening
cycle that began in October 2009, according to 10 of 17
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Two predict a 0.5 percentage
point cut, while five forecast an unchanged rate. The decision
is scheduled for 2 p.m. in Oslo.  Policy makers in October shelved a series of planned rate
increases as deepening European debt woes threaten exports and
pushed up bank borrowing costs. The  European Central Bank  last
week cut its benchmark rate to 1 percent, matching a record low
and adding pressure on Norway to follow suit to avoid a
strengthening of the krone.  “What we have seen so far is that the debt crisis in the
 euro zone  has intensified, which of course will have negative
effects on the Norwegian economy,” Erica Blomgren, chief
strategist for Norway at SEB AB, said by phone. “But mostly we
have seen stress in financial markets, which Norges Bank has
shown so far that they put a lot of emphasis on.”  Debt Rescue  Norway, which sends more than 60 percent of its factory
goods to Europe, saw its manufacturing output shrink last month
for the first time since March 2010, while  consumer confidence 
slumped to a 2 1/2-year low this quarter. Growth in Norway’s
 mainland economy , which excludes oil, gas and shipping, slowed
to 0.8 percent in the third quarter from 1.3 percent through
June. Norway’s statistics agency last week slashed its 2012
growth forecasts to 2.5 percent from 3.5 percent.  Meanwhile, stocks across Europe added to losses this week
amid doubts measures by announced by European Union leaders
after the latest summit would be enough to end the region’s debt
crisis. Leaders unveiled a plan after meetings on Dec. 8 and 9
for a closer fiscal accord to save the euro, adding 200 billion
euros to the International Monetary Fund’s bailout efforts and
tightening rules to curb deficits. They also said they would
start a 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund next year.  Norway’s Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said last month
that the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter was prepared to
act should the debt crisis worsen. Norway is the only
Scandinavian nation that’s not an EU member.  Straying Rates  The ECB on Dec. 8 lowered its forecast for the economy next
year to a range of 0.4 percent contraction to growth of 1
percent. It previously estimated growth of 0.4 percent to 2.2
percent.  Norway’s central bank has signaled it doesn’t want its main
rate to stray too far from those on in  Europe  to avoid fueling
krone gains that hurt exports. The krone has strengthened 0.5
percent against the euro this month as investors have dumped
euro assets.  European financial market concerns have also raised
borrowing costs for Norwegian lenders, giving the bank more room
to cut rates. The difference between the bank’s deposit rate and
the three-month Norway interbank offered rate was yesterday at
90 basis points, compared with an average of 67 basis points
over the past year. It was as wide as 108 basis points on Nov.
22. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “A cut is necessary if a further increase in interest rate
on loans to the public is to be avoided, given the higher bank
funding costs,” Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency
strategist at First Securities in Oslo, and a former central
bank economist said in a note to clients.  Housing Risk  Policy makers must also weigh a weakening global growth
outlook against the potential risks of fueling a housing bubble
as  unemployment  in the world’s second-richest nation per capita
remains near a three-year low.  House prices  rose an annual 8.5
percent in November, according to the Norwegian Real Estate
Brokers Association. Household credit growth remained at 7.2
percent in October. Record high petroleum investments, amid high
 oil prices , are also fueling growth.  “The macroeconomic situation in Norway doesn’t suggest any
need for Norges Bank to push hard on the accelerator,” said
Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency strategist at First
Securities ASA and a former Norges Bank economist. “Growth is
supported by an investment boom in the oil and gas sector as
well as housing.”  Weaker inflationary pressure also raises the scope of the
central bank to cut  interest rates . The  underlying inflation 
rate, adjusted for taxes, fees and energy prices, slowed to 1
percent in November from 1.2 percent a month earlier, according
to  Statistics Norway .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  