-- 
Novell Makes Closing Arguments at Microsoft Antitrust Trial

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-12-13T19:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/novell-begins-closing-arguments-in-microsoft-wordperfect-antitrust-trial.html
Novell Inc. (NOVL)  and Microsoft Corp. made
closing arguments today in Novell’s case claiming the world’s
largest software maker unfairly used its monopoly on personal
computer operating systems to suppress WordPerfect, a rival
word-processing program.  In defending the case in federal court in  Salt Lake City ,
Microsoft called Chairman  Bill Gates  as a witness last month.
Gates testified that he “absolutely” denied the central
allegation of Novell’s suit: that in 1994, in developing the
Windows 95 operating system, Microsoft blocked an element of the
software to thwart Novell’s WordPerfect and Quattro Pro
programs.  Novell is seeking as much as $1.3 billion in damages, which
would be tripled under antitrust law. The company “wanted
nothing more than to compete on the merits of its products,”
the company’s lawyer, Jeffrey Johnson, told the jury.  A decision to restrict outside programmers’ access to
“extensions,” or programming code -- a decision that Novell
claims deliberately targeted WordPerfect and made it impossible
to run properly on Windows -- was made at a 1993 “high-level
executive retreat” at Hood Canal,  Washington , Johnson told
jurors.  Gates’s testimony that the extensions were “trivial and
unimportant -- hardly worth his time” doesn’t withstand
scrutiny, Johnson said. Johnson revisited testimony and e-mails
presented at trial to argue the decision was a “purely
predatory action.”  ‘It Was Important’  “He wasn’t telling the truth,” Johnson said, referring to
Gates’s testimony. “It was important to him.”  Novell, which was bought by Seattle-based  Attachmate Corp. 
in April, has argued that WordPerfect’s share of the word-
processing market fell to less than 10 percent in 1996 from
almost 50 percent in 1990.  Its value dropped from $1.2 billion in May 1994 to $170
million in 1996, when it was sold to Ottawa-based Corel Corp.,
said Novell. The company settled separate antitrust claims
against Microsoft for $536 million in 2004.  David B. Tulchin, a lawyer representing Microsoft, told
jurors that Novell “showed you not one document in which Novell
complained to Microsoft” about the blocked extensions in 1994
or 1995. A juror might conclude that a company facing $1 billion
of damages without the code at issue would “speak up,” he
said.  ‘Boggles the Mind’  “The essence of Novell’s claim is once an operating system
company sends out a beta version of the operating system, the
company that sent out that operating system is frozen -- can’t
make a change” without facing liability if it does, Tulchin
said. The argument “boggles the mind,” he said.  “We will never know” what would’ve happened if Novell had
asked Bill Gates to maintain access to the extensions, Tulchin
said. “They never did ask. Microsoft thought Novell was not
using them.”  Jurors are scheduled to begin deliberations later today or
tomorrow.  The case is Novell Inc. v.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , 04-01045, U.S.
District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in Salt Lake City federal court at 
7129 or  jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  