-- 
Ban on Cell-Phone Use, Texting While Driving Sought by NTSB

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-13T21:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ntsb-seeks-ban-on-cell-phone-use-texting-while-driving.html
U.S. drivers couldn’t send  text
messages  or use mobile phones -- even with headsets or portable
speakers -- under a U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
recommendation aimed at preventing distracted-driving crashes.  “Too many people are texting, talking and driving at the
same time,” NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said at a hearing in
Washington today. “It’s time to put a stop to distraction. No
call, no text, no update is worth a human life.”  Systems built into cars, like  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar,
and global positioning systems wouldn’t be affected by the ban,
said Kelly Nantel, an NTSB spokeswoman. The NTSB recommends
safety improvements for U.S. and state agencies to act upon; it
can’t implement them itself.  The board strengthened its anti-phone stance after
completing its investigation into an August 2010 crash in Gray
Summit,  Missouri , in which a 19-year-old GMC Sierra pickup
driver sent or received 11 text messages in a 13-minute stretch
before plowing into the back of a tractor-trailer. Two school
buses collided with the stopped trucks. The pickup driver and
one bus passenger perished in the crash. The truck driver and 37
other people were injured.  Last year, 3,092 deaths, or 9.4 percent of road fatalities,
were related to driver distraction, the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration  said Dec. 8.  The agency said it has changed the way it tallies
distracted-driving crashes. Previously, just having a phone in
the car could result in an accident being categorized as
affected by distracted driving. With the new method, only
accidents involving talking on a mobile phone or sending text
messages are counted.  Regulation Debate  Safety regulators have been debating how much to regulate
drivers’ cell-phone use for the past decade. U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood says he believes motorists are distracted
by any use of mobile phones while driving, including hands-free
calls.  LaHood, whose campaign against texting and talking on the
phone while driving has led to restrictions in 30 states, has
said his concerns extend to vehicle information and
entertainment systems such as OnStar or  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Sync.  Each State  The NTSB’s recommendation would have to be adopted
separately by each U.S. state, since states have authority to
regulate driver behavior. States should adopt electronic-device
bans, then back up the laws with aggressive enforcement as they
have with drunk driving and seat-belt use, Hersman said.  Today’s action is a “watershed recommendation,” Hersman
said.  The NTSB asked mobile-phone makers to work on technology to
block a driver’s calls and messages while the vehicle is moving.
The safety board wants to work with the industry, Hersman told
reporters at a news conference.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, a trade group representing
wireless companies like  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , said it supports a ban on texting. The industry is
deferring to state and local lawmakers on whether to pass laws
restricting phone calls,  Steve Largent , CTIA’s chief executive
officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The group encourages companies to develop affordable tools
that are “consumer-friendly,” Largent said. “The industry
constantly produces new products and services, including those
that can disable the driver’s mobile device.”  Trucks, Buses  Fatal accidents caused by distracted operators have
increased in all modes of transportation, Hersman said. That
includes planes, trains, boats, trucks, buses and private cars
and trucks, she said.  The use of phones and e-mail by operators is so prevalent
that securing call records and the devices themselves is one of
the first steps investigators now take after accidents, she
said.  The NTSB called for a ban on mobile phones for truck and
bus drivers in September, when Hersman said distracted driving
was “increasingly prevalent, exacerbating the danger we
encounter daily on our roadways.”  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, which
regulates trucking and bus companies, banned hand-held cell
phones for drivers operating commercial vehicles last month. It
banned texting for commercial drivers in January 2010.  In July, the Governors Highway Safety Association urged
states to hold off on enacting bans on drivers’ use of handheld
mobile phones, saying there wasn’t enough data about whether
such prohibitions prevent crashes.  “We haven’t yet supported a total ban,” Jonathan Adkins,
a spokesman for the Washington-based group of state highway
regulators, said in an e-mail. “We think the NTSB action could
very well be a game-changer, however. States aren’t ready to
enact full bans but this will certainly get the conversation
started.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  