-- 
Obama Aides Say Long GOP Race an Advantage

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-12-13T19:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/obama-aides-say-drawn-out-gop-race-an-advantage.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
advisers say Republicans are likely to face a drawn-out primary
contest and that their analysis of public polls shows Mitt Romney would be a tougher general-election opponent than Newt Gingrich.  David Axelrod, Obama’s chief political adviser, and
campaign manager Jim Messina highlighted in a briefing for
reporters what they said was the president’s 7-percentage-point
advantage over Gingrich in aggregated national polls, compared
with a 2-point margin over Romney.  While declining to say who they’d rather run against, both
indicated that a contentious contest between the former speaker
of the House and the former Massachusetts governor that push the
two candidates toward appealing to the most conservative primary
voters would make the eventual Republican nominee easier to run
against.  “They’re being tugged to the right every day,”  David
Axelrod , a campaign adviser, told reporters in at the Democratic
National Committee headquarters in Washington. “They’re
mortgaging themselves for the general by tacking as far as they
are.”  The 2012 election campaign will take place against the
backdrop of an economy still struggling to emerge from the worst
recession in seven decades. While employers added 120,000 jobs
to their payrolls last month and unemployment fell to 8.6
percent, the jobless rate will average 8.7 percent in 2012,
according to the median forecast by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from Dec. 2-8. Obama’s approval rating in
Gallup’s daily tracking poll has been hovering at about 45
percent since late May.  No ‘Slam Dunk’  In an address to fundraisers today in  Washington , Obama
said he will have to “fight” to win re-election.  “It’s not a slam dunk,” Obama said.  Axelrod argued that voters will take into account the
magnitude and origins of the recession and Obama’s latest
proposals to spur economic growth. “This is not an ordinary
year and you can’t apply ordinary models,” he said.  Neither Axelrod nor Messina would predict whether Gingrich
or Romney would emerge at the Republican presidential nominee.
They cited the many lead changes in the early campaign as other
candidates, such as Texas Governor Rick Perry and businessman
Herman Cain, have risen to front-runner status only to drop as
they made stumbles while campaigning or in debates.  “Whether it’s Romney or Gingrich or if someone else were
to surprise us again, the debate is going to be largely the same
because the economic theory on their side is largely the same,”
Axelrod said.  First Contest  Republicans will head to the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3, in
the first contest of the campaign. Seven days later,  New
Hampshire  will host its primary.  Axelrod and Messina argued that Republican contest is
different from the extended primary battle that Obama faced in
2008 with  Hillary Clinton . The Democratic race made Obama a
tougher candidate and allowed voters to “kick the tires” on
someone who was not well known, Axelrod said.  Messina said Obama can reach the 270 electoral votes needed
for victory under several scenarios. If Obama wins all the
Democratic-leaning states that Massachusetts Senator John Kerry
took in his unsuccessful 2004 campaign, plus  Florida , he will
capture 275 votes. He can also win on a “West Path,” by
starting with the Kerry baseline, losing Florida and then
winning  Colorado ,  New Mexico , Nevada and  Iowa  to capture 272.  South Path  The “South Path” has him losing  Ohio  and Florida, while
winning North Carolina and  Virginia , giving the president 274
votes. On the “Midwest Path,” Obama can also be re-elected if
he loses Florida while winning Ohio and Iowa, which would give
him 270 votes.  In the eight states where the Obama advisers say the
general election will be fought,  Arizona , Colorado, Florida,
Iowa, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio and  Pennsylvania ,
Obama is leading against Gingrich in six and is tied in Arizona
and down one point in Ohio, according to Messina. Romney is
leading in two states, New Hampshire and Ohio, and is tied in
 North Carolina , said Messina, relying on public polling.  Starting in the New Year, the Obama campaign will deploy
hundreds of workers to state offices. Messina said they will
have an advantage in organization that will carry them into the
general election.  “You have infrastructure to turn out voters,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  