-- 
Lockheed F-35 Cost Controls in $662 Billion Defense Bill

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-12-13T17:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/lockheed-f-35-cost-controls-in-defense-bill-set-for-fast-vote.html
Lawmakers in the U.S. Senate and
House plan to vote this week on a $662 billion defense bill that
seeks to control rising costs of the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35
jet, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program.  The bill endorsed by negotiators from the two chambers
yesterday also mandates that members of al-Qaeda be placed in
military detention and includes a provision passed by the Senate
last week to impose sanctions on  Iran ’s central bank.  It’s “a bill that provides for the national defense,
ensures that our troops and their families are cared for, and
delivers maximum value for taxpayers’ hard-earned dollars,”
said Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of
the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Both the House and Senate are moving to vote on the bill
this week and send it to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature.  The negotiators agreed to a provision that directs the
Pentagon, in an upcoming sixth F-35 production contract, to
place greater risk on Lockheed Martin to absorb overruns.  If costs exceed a negotiated target, the company would
absorb the entire amount instead of splitting the increase with
the U.S. government. The U.S. is negotiating the fifth contract
for the F-35. At $382 billion, the F-35 is the Pentagon’s
largest weapons program.  F-35 Cut  The Senate and House negotiators also agreed to cut funding
for one F-35 jet for the Air Force, dropping its purchase to 18
for 2012. The negotiators approved funding for seven carrier-
based F-35s requested by the Navy and six short take-off-and-
vertical landing versions for the Marine Corps.  The one-jet cut matches an agreement in an unreleased
defense appropriations bill that may be completed today, said
two congressional staff members who spoke on condition they not
be identified. The appropriations bill provides for the
obligation of funds in a fiscal year.  The 2012 defense authorization bill sets military policy
and spending targets at about $26.6 billion less than the
Pentagon’s request for the fiscal year that started Oct.1.  The bill includes $115.5 billion for the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq , and about $16.9 billion for Department of
Energy defense programs. It also would hold defense contractors
responsible for counterfeit parts in weapons systems.  Missile Defense  House and Senate negotiators agreed to $390 million for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System. Three-fourths of that funding would
be restricted until the Defense Secretary submits a detailed
plan “either for implementing a smaller restructured program,
or for paying contract termination costs.”  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
 Orlando ,  Florida , by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Lockheed, Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of  Germany  and MBDA of
 Italy . MBDA is owned by  BAE Systems Plc , European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   “ The conferees are extremely disappointed that in 2004
the  Department of Defense  negotiated and signed a Memorandum of
Understanding on the Medium Extended Air Defense System with
Germany and Italy that effectively created an unacceptable
situation for the  United States  in the event of poor program
execution, significant schedule delays, or significantly
increased cost estimates, such as have taken place,” lawmakers
wrote in the conference report.  Tactical Vehicle Supported  The Pentagon in February said it would terminate the
program when the current contract ends in 2013. In July, Italy
joined Germany in pressing the U.S. to maintain funding.  The bill also supports the Army and Marine Corps Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle program. The conference agreement
authorizes $152.2 million for continued development.  Three companies in 2008 won technology development
contracts for the program: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint
venture of  General Dynamics (GD)  Land Systems, part of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based General Dynamics Corp., and  South Bend , Indiana-
based AM General LLC; BAE Systems Land & Armaments, part of
London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ; and Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed Martin Corp.  The final defense bill cuts $297.7 million of $775.8
million in the Army’s budget request for the Joint Tactical
Radio System, or JTRS. JTRS is a family of wirelessly linked
computers designed to deliver voice, video and data for numerous
platforms, including tanks and aircraft.  Boeing Co. (BA) , General
Dynamics Corp. and Lockheed Martin Corp. have a stake in the
program.  Ships and Tankers  The House and Senate negotiators agreed on $14.9 billion
for 10 new ships and shipbuilding support, including the Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship program, the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke
destroyer, the DDG-1000 guided missile destroyer and the LPD-17
amphibious transport dock ship.  The defense authorization conference report requires the
U.S. Comptroller General to submit an annual report on Boeing’s
KC-46A tanker program, beginning in fiscal year 2012 and
concluding in fiscal 2017. The reports would include assessments
as to whether the  Air Force  was making changes to the program‘s
requirements or documentation.  Military Detentions  The bill requires the Secretary of the Army to certify that
the acquisition strategy for the production of radio systems
provides for “full and open competition that includes
commercially developed systems that are certified by the
National Security Agency and pass Army testing,” according to a
summary of the conference report provided by the Senate Armed
Services Committee.  The bill includes a requirement that members of al-Qaeda be
held in military detention.  At the request of the Obama administration, the compromise
bill adopts language to make it “100 percent clear” that the
revised bill wouldn’t interfere with the detention authority of
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  or other law enforcement
agencies, Levin told reporters.  “I just can’t imagine that the president would veto this
bill,” Levin said.  The president would have the power to determine what
suspects have an al-Qaeda connection and therefore would go into
military detention, according to a committee news release.  The bill is H.R. 1540.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  