-- 
Hollywood Said to Court Amazon in Bid for Online Film Sales

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-12-13T21:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hollywood-studios-said-to-court-amazon-in-bid-to-boost-online-film-sales.html
Hollywood studios, working to spur
purchases of films and TV shows, are in talks to bring
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  back into their online system called
UltraViolet, people with knowledge of the situation said.  Discussions between Amazon and studios including  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. center on plans to roll out
the shared method for storing and watching films on products
such as the Kindle Fire tablet and Blu-ray players, said one of
the people, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Studios are looking to counter shrinking DVD sales fueled
by low-cost rentals from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox
kiosks. Their focus is on UltraViolet, which lets consumers buy
videos from retailers, store them online and play them on any
device. Sales by Amazon, the largest Internet seller, would put
pressure on its rivals to follow suit.  “Everyone is hoping this returns them to the golden era of
DVDs when money fell out of the sky,” says Scott Smyers, an
analyst with Sunrise Digital Technologies and a former Sony
executive.  Amazon’s participation may speed the adoption of
Ultraviolet, which has struggled in the two months since its
introduction because of consumer confusion over how to register
and access digital copies of movies they’ve purchased.  The Ultraviolet effort is backed by retailers,
entertainment and technology companies through the Digital
Entertainment Content Ecosystem, whose members also include  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Entertainment, Comcast Corp.’s NBC Universal and
 Viacom Inc .’s Paramount Pictures.  Digital Window  Retailers  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , owner the CinemaNow website, and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are also part of the Ultraviolet group,
although neither website has begun using the system.  Amazon already lets customers store movies purchased on its
site. The Seattle-based company is interested in a plan to let
consumers pay 99 cents to $1.49 to convert a DVD or Blu-ray disc
they already own into a digital copy stored online, said the
people. The 99-cent offer is expected to be announced by the
Ultraviolet group at the Consumer Electronics Show in  Las Vegas 
in January, the people said.  Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Mark Teitell, general manager and executive director of the
Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem.  Amazon dropped 4.8 percent to $180.51 at the close in  New
York , after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said its 2012 earnings
estimates need to be reduced. Netflix lost 4.2 percent to $72.11
and has declined 59 percent this year.  Consumer Habits  Amazon’s interest in UltraViolet coincides with studio
experiments on ways to stoke digital sales.  Sony has carved out a period for exclusive digital sales of
some movies on websites such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes before they
are available for sale or rental on DVD, for example. The window
might last a few days or weeks.  “The goal is definitely to guide consumers toward
purchase, but to do so by adding a benefit,” John Calkins, an
executive vice president at  Sony Pictures Home Entertainment ,
said in an interview.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has its own Web-
based storage service called iCloud and hasn’t joined
Ultraviolet group.  Amazon became a member of the Ultraviolet group with its
January purchase of U.K.-based Lovefilm, a Netflix-like
subscription service, and pulled out shortly after.  Talks to rejoin started after the company’s October hiring
of Anthony Bay, a former Microsoft Corp. manager with ties to
the movie industry, to lead its digital media strategy,
according to one of the people.  ‘Moneyball’  Sony and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures already provide
the UltraViolet service through their websites, while Warner
Bros. makes the service available through Flixster.com.  Sony, based in  Tokyo , has been experimenting since summer
with an exclusive online sales window for movies including “Bad
Teacher” and “30 Minutes or Less.”  Digital sales of those titles were 60 percent to 70 percent
higher than average, Calkins said. There was no indication they
cut into DVD or Blu-ray sales, he said.  “Moneyball,” the Brad Pitt baseball drama, is the next
title in Sony’s experiment and will be available for purchase
online starting Dec. 22, more than two weeks before the Jan. 10
debut on DVD and Blu-ray, Calkins said.  Amazon and iTunes are participating in the Sony experiment,
and stand to benefit from an early digital-sales window. A
digital download of an early Sony movie costs about $14.99, or
about three times a one-time rental via pay-per-view.  Film Collections  U.S. DVD revenue fell 19 percent to $16.3 billion in 2010
from a 2006 peak of $20.2 billion, with a rise in Blu-ray sales
slowing the decline, according to the industry-backed Digital
Entertainment Group. Digital sales and rentals expanded in that
same period to $2.5 billion from $1 billion.  One goal of the UltraViolet group is to expand the number
of participating retailers, according to Corey Ferengul, an
executive vice president of  Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , which provides cable
companies and TV-set manufacturers with programming data.  “There’s not a massive amount of money to be made, but it
gives studios the ability to quickly change consumers’ behavior
about collecting movies again,” Ferengul said. “And for the
retailer storing your collection, it builds loyalty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  