-- 
Olympus Had Undisclosed Stake in Firm at Center of $1.5 Billion Cover-Up

-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-12-13T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/olympus-had-18-stake-in-firm-linked-to-cover-up-filing-shows.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  owned 18 percent of
Axes Asset Management, an affiliate of the advisory firm accused
of aiding the cover-up of losses at the camera maker, documents
filed in 2007 with Japan’s Ministry of Finance show.  Olympus was the third-largest investor in Axes Asset
Management, according to the March 19, 2007, document, obtained
after a disclosure request made a month ago by Bloomberg News.
While a 185-page report last week by an outside panel
investigating Olympus’s accounts traced links to Axes bankers
back to the 1980s, it made no mention of a financial tie-up.  Tokyo  Stock Exchange has said it may delist Olympus over
its admission that it falsified earnings statements for more
than a decade to hide about $1.5 billion of losses. Olympus is
trying to regain investor trust by saying that it has owned up
to all financial wrongdoings and should remain publicly traded.  There was no detail of any financial transactions made by
Axes Asset Management in the filing, and it is not known whether
Olympus remains a shareholder. Parts of the three-page document,
including details on four other stakeholders, were blacked out.  Tsuyoshi Kitada, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Olympus,
wasn’t immediately available to comment last night. Axes Asset
Management was merged into Axes  Japan  Securities on Jan. 1,
2010, according to another filing. A call made to Axes Japan,
also last night, was unanswered.  The panel detailed the role played by Axes and other
advisory firms in setting up a web of offshore vehicles and
funneling takeover payments and fees back to Olympus to cancel
out the losses.  Nakagawa, Sagawa  The filing also lists Akio Nakagawa, a banker linked to the
fraud by the outside investigation panel. Nakagawa held 37
percent of Axes Asset Management, the document showed. Axes
Japan was the second-biggest shareholder with 30 percent. The
filing showed Nakagawa purchased his stake from Sagawa
International Services Corp.  Sagawa International was a U.S. company owned by Hajime
Sagawa, a U.S.-based Japanese banker who hasn’t made a public
appearance since  Michael Woodford  exposed Axes’ role in the
scandal after he was fired as Olympus’s chief executive officer
on Oct. 14.  Sagawa and Nakagawa’s Axes America LLC was paid at least
$24 million for helping Olympus disguise $670 million as
advisory fees on the $2.1 billion takeover of U.K.-based Gyrus
Group Plc. in 2008. Some of that money was paid out to other
advisers, U.S. filings show.  Nakagawa worked at several securities firms, such as
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc. and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. between the 1970s and
1990s, according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
records in the U.S.  Cayman Islands   At least 17 Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands
special purpose companies were involved in the cover-up,
according to the panel, which said payments were made through
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and LGT Bank Ltd. Olympus’s
payments to funds set up by another Japanese adviser, Nobumasa
Yokoo, were also set out in the findings, which blamed the
schemes on a “rotten” core of senior managers.  The 92-year-old company must file audited second-quarter
financial statements by 5.15 p.m. today in Tokyo to avoid
automatic delisting, according to TSE rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  