-- 
Olympus Audit, Stiefel Labs Sued, Bair Role: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-13T13:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/olympus-audit-stiefel-labs-sued-possible-bair-role-compliance.html
An Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC
committee will determine whether there were auditing problems or
lapses in judgment in its probe on the coverup of a $1.7 billion
fraud at  Olympus Corp. (7733)   ShinNihon said Dec. 8 that it formed a committee to
investigate its audit of Olympus and verify an internal probe
that found nothing wrong. Toshifumi Takada, a panel member and
economics professor at Tohoku University in Miyagi, northern
Japan, said in Tokyo yesterday that the panel will form a
committee to look into whether there were problems in the
accounting process for acquisition and will look at judgments
made in auditing.  Olympus is investigating about 70 executives to answer
queries over losses and transactions for acquisitions, including
$687 million in payments to advisers in the purchase of Gyrus
Group Plc in 2008 and stake writedowns in three other takeovers.
The camera maker set up a special panel in November to conduct a
probe after former Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford 
revealed the coverup costing 135 billion yen ($1.7 billion).  The ShinNihon committee plans to ask KPMG Azsa LLC, Tokyo-
based Olympus’s former auditors, to cooperate with its probe,
said Nobuo Gohara, a lawyer and committee member. The committee
intends to release an interim report by Dec. 31 and a full
account by the end of February, he said.  Compliance Policy  AT&T Cupcakes Make the Rounds in Washington After ‘Cupcakegate’  AT&T Inc. (T)  said it distributed cupcakes to friends and
colleagues in Washington and defended sending the treats to U.S.
regulators at the Federal Communications Commission.  AT&T’s holiday tradition of distributing sweets drew
attention last year after  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based
policy group,  obtained  a distribution list for 1,530 cupcakes,
with recipients including members of the FCC.  Bob Quinn, senior vice president-federal regulatory and
chief privacy officer for the company, said in a  blog posting 
yesterday that there was some pressure to stop the tradition
this year because of “silly criticisms last year.”  Quinn didn’t say how many cupcakes were delivered this year
in what the posting called “a token of holiday cheer” for
“friends and colleagues with whom we work in the communications
space.”  The FCC last month moved to block AT&T’s proposed $39
billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. The Justice Department
earlier sued to block the deal that would eliminate the fourth-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, calling the transaction
anticompetitive. A federal judge put the antitrust case on hold
yesterday, and Dallas-based AT&T has until Jan. 12 to file a
report with the court saying whether it still intends to try to
acquire T-Mobile.  A dozen cupcakes bearing AT&T’s logo were delivered to
Bloomberg’s Washington bureau, and were distributed to building
staff not involved in the production or distribution of news.  Compliance Action  Top MF Global Execs Say They Don’t Know How Funds Went Missing  Three of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. ’s top executives said they
didn’t know what happened to as much as $1.2 billion in client
funds that went missing in the days before the New York-based
brokerage filed for bankruptcy.  Henri Steenkamp, chief financial officer of MF Global, and
 Bradley Abelow , the firm’s president and chief operating
officer, said in testimony prepared for a Senate Agriculture
Committee hearing today that they still don’t know the location
of the funds.  Jon S. Corzine, former chairman and chief executive officer
of the broker, is scheduled to testify at the same witness
table, after telling U.S. House lawmakers last week that he
never intended to authorize any misuse of client money.  “I do not know why these funds cannot be accounted for,
but based on the fact that no shortfalls had been reported to me
previously, it appears that any irregularities were likely
caused by events that occurred shortly before the bankruptcy
filing,” Steenkamp said in the testimony.  Steenkamp said he learned of the shortfall on Oct. 30, the
day before the firm filed for  bankruptcy protection .
Investigators have found misuse of futures-client funds at MF
Global as early as Oct. 21, according to a person briefed on the
matter.  Lawmakers have joined regulators including the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission and U.S. Justice Department in probing the collapse.  For more, click here.  Sino-Forest Will Miss Deadlines on Earnings, Report Into Fraud  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the timber company whose shares have
plunged 74 percent since June, said it will miss a deadline to
publish its third-quarter earnings and a final report into fraud
allegations.  The company won’t be able to publish the earnings within
the 30-day period stated on Nov. 15, Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest said yesterday in a statement. There’s
no assurance if or when the results will be released, it said.
Sino-Forest also said a report by an independent committee into
the fraud allegations now won’t be issued until 2012, instead of
the year-end as previously stated. Sino-Forest said it decided
it won’t make a $9.78 million interest payment on its 2016
convertible notes that’s due Dec. 15.  The committee was formed in June after short seller Carson
Block’s research firm Muddy Waters LLC published a report that
said Sino-Forest overstated its timber holdings in  China .  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Carries Blame in German CO2 Fraud, Prosecutor Says  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest bank, carries some
blame for a fraud involving carbon-emissions certificate trades,
according to prosecutor Thomas Gonder.  The bank isn’t a defendant at the trial of six managers at
emissions-trading companies in what prosecutors call an
international scheme to evade value-added tax when trading the
certificates with Deutsche Bank.  “Deutsche Bank is not directly involved in the case and
for that reason does not have access to the files for the
process,” Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
said in an e-mail. “An internal investigation by an independent
 law firm  has so far shown no clues of an involvement of the
bank’s employees.”  Courts  SEC Sues Security Investor Protection Corp. Over Stanford Claims  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the
federal Securities Investor Protection Corp., seeking an order
forcing it to create a claims process for R. Allen Stanford’s
alleged investment fraud victims.  The SEC, in papers filed yesterday in federal court in
Washington, said it had determined in June that thousands of
those alleged victims may be entitled to SIPC coverage and that
the agency’s unwillingness to act compelled the commission to
sue. The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed with the
court.  The SEC sued Stanford and three of his businesses in
February 2009, claiming they were part of a $7 billion Ponzi
scheme centered on the sale of certificates of deposit by
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  The financier was indicted by a U.S. grand jury in Houston
four months later. He has pleaded not guilty.  SIPC is responsible for providing as much as  $500,000  in
coverage for individual investors who lose money or securities
held by insolvent or failing member brokerage firms.  Stanford investors aren’t covered by that law, SIPC
President Stephen P. Harbeck said in a phone interview
yesterday.  For more, click here.  SEC Sues Glaxo Unit Over Share Buybacks Before Acquisition  Stiefel Laboratories Inc. and its former chairman were sued
by U.S. regulators for buying back stock from employees without
disclosing key information, including its acquisition talks with
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Stiefel Labs, based in  Coral Gables , Florida, and former
chairman Charles Stiefel defrauded shareholders out of more than
$110 million by using low valuations for stock buybacks from
November 2006 to April 2009, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a complaint filed at U.S. District Court in
Florida yesterday.  Stiefel Labs announced in April 2009 that London-based
GlaxoSmithKline would acquire the firm at a price more than 300
percent higher than the per-share price used in buybacks, the
SEC said. The SEC is seeking disgorgement, or repayment, of ill-
gotten gains and unspecified fines, which could potentially
amount to the value of the gains, said Eric Bustillo, head of
the SEC’s regional office in Miami.  A phone call to Holly Skolnick and David Coulson, Stiefel’s
attorneys at Greenberg Traurig LLP in Miami, wasn’t immediately
returned.  “Stiefel denies that it or Charlie Stiefel acted
improperly or did anything to violate the securities laws,”
Glaxo said in an e-mailed statement. “Stiefel intends to
vigorously defend itself against the SEC’s complaint.”  For more, click here.  Former Workers Say Repsol Banned From Selling YPF Stake  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest oil company, wasn’t
permitted to sell a stake in its Argentine unit YPF SA without
the approval of former workers, according to a recent appeals
court ruling in the South America nation.  Repsol sold an 11.5 percent stake in YPF to U.S. funds for
$1.7 billion in March when it was banned from doing so, the
Federation of Former YPF Workers said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday, citing the appeals court ruling from earlier this
month. The group plans to file a complaint to the Securities and
Exchange Commission in the next few days, according to the
statement.  A court in the Argentine province of Cordoba ruled on Dec.
5 that Repsol can’t sell a 10 percent stake in YPF without the
approval of almost 25,000 former workers and shareholders,
according to yesterday’s statement. An Argentine judge in
February ordered Madrid-based Repsol to halt plans to sell a 15
percent stake in YPF amid a dispute with former employees, who
are seeking to recover their ownership rights in YPF shares.  Repsol Spokesman Kristian Rix declined to comment in an e-
mail yesterday. A YPF official wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Special Section: FSA Report on RBS  Taxpayers Have Right to Fury Over RBS Oversight, Turner Says  U.K. taxpayers “had a right to be absolutely furious”
with regulators over their supervision of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  before its near collapse in 2008, the Financial
Services Authority’s chairman said yesterday.  Regulators missed problems with the bank’s liquidity in the
months before the 2008 financial crisis and allowed the bank to
operate with a capital ratio of one-quarter of current minimums.
The FSA had fewer than five team members devoted to supervising
RBS in October 2007, a year before its bailout, the watchdog
said in a report yesterday.  “One of the flaws with the supervisory system at that time
was that the resource devoted to supervising systemically
important firms was very light,” FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  told
reporters in  London  yesterday.  RBS reported a 24.1 billion-pound ($37 billion) loss for
2008, the largest in U.K. corporate history, and required a 45.5
billion-pound taxpayer rescue, the world’s biggest banking
bailout, after the acquisition of Dutch bank ABN Amro Holding
NV.  Separately, U.K. banks should need the agreement of the
financial regulator to make acquisitions, according to a report
by  Treasury Select Committee  advisers Bill Knight and David
Walker. They commented in response to yesterday’s report by the
Financial Services Authority on RBS.  For more, click here, and click here.  Schmidt Says U.K. Banks to Be More Isolated on EU Veto  Jacob Schmidt , founder and chief executive officer of
 Schmidt Research Partners Ltd. , discussed the Financial Services
Authority’s report on the near collapse of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. and the outlook for U.K. banks following
Prime Minister David Cameron’s refusal to back a European Union
accord.  He spoke with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  ‘Dominant’ Goodwin Perturbed RBS’s Regulators Going Back to 2004  Four years before Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
collapsed, Britain’s Financial Services Authority identified
then-Chief Executive Officer Fred Goodwin’s “dominant”
management style as a risk.  A  report  into the near collapse of Edinburgh-based RBS
released by the FSA yesterday said that rather than challenge
Goodwin, regulators were too lenient dealing with him.  In 2005, Goodwin asked that FSA staff water down written
concerns about RBS risk management after he was shown drafts of
correspondence the regulator was preparing to send to the bank’s
board. Acceding to Goodwin’s demands for a rewrite was “common
practice” by FSA staff at the time, the report said.  “More should have been done to address concerns that the
CEO was dominant and that he received insufficient challenge
from the RBS board,” the report said. “Greater consideration
should have been given to escalating the concern.”  When the regulator sought one-on-one meetings with the
bank’s non-executive directors to seek reassurance that proper
governance procedures were in place, RBS refused and complained
that its employees “should not be picked off.”  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sheila Bair  Said to Be Top Pick for Foreclosure Accord Monitor  Ex-Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair is
a top candidate among state officials to ensure banks comply
with any settlement of a nationwide foreclosure probe, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Bair, who led the FDIC from 2006 until this year, is
supported by some states as a third-party monitor of any accord
with mortgage servicers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , though
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  opposes her selection, said the person. Selection
of a monitor is one of the final issues to be worked out between
the banks and state and federal officials, said the person and
one other also familiar with the talks. Both declined to be
identified because the negotiations are secret.  Bair, 57, now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable
Trusts, was approached about the job two months ago and turned
it down, according to a third person who is familiar with the
matter. She declined in part because of a book manuscript she is
writing that is due in a few months, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the inquiry was private.  For more, click here.  FERC’s Marc Spitzer to Leave U.S. Regulatory Agency on Dec. 14  U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission member Marc
Spitzer will leave the agency Dec. 14, he said in a statement.  Spitzer, 54, a former chairman of the Arizona Corporation
Commission, was appointed to the U.S. agency by President George
W. Bush in 2006. His five-year term expired on June 30.  Spitzer’s departure leaves the commission with four
commissioners. The agency on Nov. 30 held a conference to
consider the effects of pending Environmental Protection Agency
rules on the U.S. power-grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 