-- 
Thomas H. Lee Is Said to Be in Lead to Buy Glaxo Consumer Assets

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-12-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/thomas-h-lee-in-lead-for-glaxo-consumer-assets.html
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP is in the
lead to buy consumer-health assets from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , and
may announce a deal as soon as this week, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  THL is close to entering exclusive talks with Glaxo, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the matter is
private. The companies have yet to agree on price and may not
reach a deal, the people said. Bain Capital LLC also submitted
an offer for the assets, and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Prestige
Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH)  put in a joint bid, they said.  Glaxo is selling products including the Alli diet pill,
Lactacyd soap, FiberChoice diet supplements and Nytol sleep aid.
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  plans to keep brands such
as Sensodyne toothpaste and Panadol pain reliever as he expands
Glaxo’s oral health, wellness and nutrition businesses in the
consumer division.  “Glaxo is focusing on consumer assets it can globalize,”
said  Gbola Amusa , a London-based analyst at UBS AG. “These
assets being sold are worth more to other companies with more of
a regional focus.”  The brands for sale are mainly available in the U.S. and
 Europe  and accounted for about 500 million pounds ($774
million), or 10 percent of Glaxo’s revenue from consumer
products in 2010. A takeover of the Glaxo assets would mark the
second major deal this year for THL, which bought food-marketing
company Acosta Sales & Marketing in a transaction valued at more
than $2 billion in March.  Revenue Gains  Excluding the brands targeted for disposal, third-quarter
revenue at the consumer-health division increased 7 percent,
Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans said on Oct. 26. Glaxo
plans to return proceeds from a sale to shareholders through
stock buybacks or “another vehicle” such as a special
dividend, Witty said Feb. 3.  Spokesmen for Boston-based THL and London-based Glaxo
declined to comment. Glaxo rose 1.7 percent to 1,453 pence in
London trading.  Glaxo “has lacked sufficient critical mass in some product
categories, and certain brands have lacked focus due to other
global priorities,” the drugmaker said in a statement on April
14.  The Alli diet pill contains orlistat, a chemical that
blocks the intestines from absorbing fat when taken as often as
three times a day with meals. Orlistat has been linked to
reports of liver injury, prompting consumer advocacy groups to
demand its removal from the market. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  announced new warnings on the pill’s label in
mid-2010.  More than 40 million people have taken orlistat, including
10 million who have used Alli, and the drug’s safety has been
established in studies involving more than 30,000 patients, the
company has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  