-- 
Thomas Cook Eases Debt Burden With Hotel Sale

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-12-13T08:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/thomas-cook-eases-debt-burden-with-hotel-sale.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest tour operator, agreed to sell its interest in
Hoteles y Clubs de Vacaciones SA to Grupo Iberostar’s hotel unit
as part of a plan to trim debt by selling assets.  Thomas Cook will get 72.2 million euros ($95 million) in
cash from the sale to Iberostar Hoteles y Apartamentos S.L., the
company said today in a statement. HCV is being sold with net
debt of 22.4 million euros and the disposal will cut Thomas
Cook’s borrowings by 94.6 million euros, it said. The stock
gained as much as 6.7 percent in London.  “I am delighted that we have been able to agree this
transaction which will significantly reduce Thomas Cook’s net
debt and demonstrate our ongoing commitment to strengthen the
balance sheet,” Chief Executive Officer Sam Weihagen said in
the release.  Thomas Cook rose 4.8 percent to 16 pence at 8:11 a.m. in
 London . The company will “continue to benefit from access to
HCV’s hotel portfolio through a separate commercial
arrangement,” according to the statement.  Thomas Cook, the 170-year-old company based in London, has
plunged 92 percent this year after a squeeze on  consumer
spending  in the U.K. and political unrest in North Africa
reduced holiday bookings. A group of banks agreed to provide a
200 million-pound ($312 million) loan to the tour operator, the
company said Nov. 25, giving it time to reorganize its business.
Thomas Cook may generate as much as 200 million pounds from
selling assets, it said in August.  The company, which delayed its full-year results, will
report earnings tomorrow. So-called headline operating profit
for the year ended Sept. 30 is expected to be “broadly in
line” with previous guidance of about 320 million pounds,
 Thomas Cook  said Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  