-- 
London Luxury-Home Prices Gain

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-12-13T10:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/london-luxury-home-prices-gain-as-buyers-extend-hunt-for-safety.html
Luxury-home prices in central
 London  climbed the most in 14 months in November as the risk of
a recession in  Europe  grew and overseas buyers sought safer
investments,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.2
million pounds ($5 million) rose by an average of 12.6 percent
from a year earlier, the London-based broker said in a report
today. That’s the most since a 14.2 percent increase in
September 2010.  “This growth has taken place against a backdrop of ever-
worsening global economic news and rising threats of a second
credit crunch,” said  Liam Bailey , head of residential research
at Knight Frank, in the report. “A typical prime London
property has risen in value by more than 1,202 pounds per day
over the past year.”  The euro reached its weakest level since February against
the pound today amid concern sovereign credit ratings may be
cut. European Union leaders last week pledged that central banks
will channel 200 billion euros ($264 billion) through the
 International Monetary Fund , sped the start of a 500 billion-
euro rescue fund and diluted a demand that bondholders shoulder
losses in rescues to help alleviate the region’s debt crisis.  Values gained 1 percent on a monthly basis. Prime central-
London prices have advanced about 40 percent since the market’s
low in March 2009, Knight Frank said.  House prices  across the
U.K. rose 0.4 percent from October, according to a Nov. 29
Nationwide Building Society report.  One Hyde Park  The number of homes on the central London luxury market has
increased by 8 percent in the past 12 months, Knight Frank
estimates. The company didn’t say how many properties were
available.  Prices in affluent neighborhoods such as Knightsbridge and
Belgravia will reach 10,000 pounds a square foot by 2016 because
of a lack of luxury-home supply in the city’s best locations,
the property broker said.  An apartment at One Hyde Park, the luxury condominium
complex in Knightsbridge, sold for 7,500 pounds a square foot,
Nick Candy, one of the two brothers who conceived of the
development, said in an October interview. The glass and steel
building has had sales of more than 1.4 billion pounds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 