-- 
London Bankers Look Past Europe’s ‘History of Antipathy’

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-12-13T10:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/london-bankers-backing-cameron-look-past-history-of-antipathy-in-europe.html
Bankers in London, home to  Europe ’s
 biggest stock exchange (LSE) , derivatives market and asset-management
business, have a message for European leaders looking for
greater integration: We’re happy to go it alone.  The city, which gained trading freedom from French-speaking
William the Conqueror in 1067, is setting its sights on markets
beyond Europe after U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  vetoed a
European treaty last week.  “I don’t think the future of London is entirely dependent
on Europe,” said Terry Smith, 58, chief executive officer of
London broker  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  and asset-management firm
 Fundsmith LLP.  “This may lead to a reconsideration of London’s
future. We can go back to as it was in history, being a
financial-services center to the world, including places with
which we’ve got historical ties: the Americas,  Asia ,  Africa  and
bits of Europe.”  Cameron cited defending  London ’s financial-services
industry as the main reason he refused to join 26 other nations
in a European Union treaty to rescue the euro last week. He was
left out of further negotiations with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, leading to
criticism from the Liberal Democrats, his coalition partners,
that Britain would be frozen out of decision-making in Europe.  Sarkozy, Merkel  “There’s been a history of antipathy from French and
German policy makers toward the City of London over the years,”
said  Neil MacKinnon , global macro strategist at VTB Capital in
London and a former U.K. Treasury official. “Whether by
accident or design, the use of the veto allows the U.K. to
escape the clutches” of EU officials.  Sarkozy and Merkel have endorsed a financial-transactions
tax that the European Commission says would raise 57 billion
euros ($75 billion) a year. U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  has
called the plan an “attack” on London firms, which his
government estimates would pay 80 percent of the tax.  “If the financial-transactions tax were to come into
effect, it would be bad for the City,” said Rob Harbron, an
economist at the Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd.
in London. “It would disproportionately affect London out of
any major city in the  euro zone .”  London’s Reach  London is the world’s biggest market for interest-rate
derivatives, with $1.4 trillion of daily revenue, or 46 percent
of the world’s total, according to the Bank for International
Settlements. The U.K. is also  home  to the world’s biggest
foreign-exchange market and 251 foreign banks, more than in any
other country.  “The City is relieved” at Cameron’s refusal to sign the
treaty, according to Steven Bell, chief economist at hedge fund
GLC Ltd. in London and a former U.K. Treasury economist. “For
the U.K. economy it’s the equivalent of North Sea oil and it’s
not running out.”  The U.K.’s financial-services industry makes up about 10
percent of the country’s gross domestic product and 11 percent
of its total tax receipts, according to  The City U.K. , a lobby
group backed by the  City of London  Corporation, which governs
the financial district. Financial-services employ more than 1
million people in the U.K., the group said.  About 288,000 of these work in the City of London,
according to the CEBR. That’s 9.3 percent fewer than in 2010 and
the lowest headcount since at least 1998 as firms cut jobs amid
the European debt crisis and tougher regulation.  London Ranked No. 1  London remains the world’s top financial center, according
to a survey of 1,887 executives by consulting firm  Z/Yen 
published in September. The city beat  New York  and  Hong Kong  on
issues such as regulation, tax and lifestyle, while the euro
crisis caused Frankfurt and Paris to drop down the list, the
survey said.  “There clearly was a danger that had the U.K. acceded to
the proposed treaty amendments there would have been a whole
raft of untutored, blunt-force regulations that would have
endangered the whole industry and also economic recovery,” said
Philip Keevil, a former head of  investment banking  at S.G.
Warburg & Co. and now a partner at New York-based advisory firm
 Compass Advisers LLP . “So Cameron was right to exercise his
veto.”  Sarkozy last week cited the lack of unified regulation as a
cause of the global financial crisis as Cameron made his case
for defending London from European rules. British banks were
bailed out by about 1 trillion pounds in capital and guarantees
from the government after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed
in 2008.  Banks Versus Economy  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  required a 45.5 billion-
pound rescue and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  needed more than 20
billion pounds. Cameron’s veto provides further help to the
nation’s lenders rather than the economy, according to  Andrew Russell , professor of politics at Manchester University.  “This seems to be about the protection of banks rather
than the country as a whole,” Russell said. “The question will
be what material difference this makes to Britain’s economy
rather than the Square Mile,” he said referring to London’s
financial district.  While banks, brokers and fund-management firms should be
“grateful” to Cameron, they must be wary of the long-term
ramifications of his decision, according to Michael Kirkwood,
ex-chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.K. division.  Poll Backs Cameron  “It’s sad that we got ourselves into that particular
state,” said Kirkwood, who now leads  Ondra Partners LLP , a
financial-advisory firm. “In the longer term, if the U.K.
becomes isolationist and Europe pulls together there are risks
to the City. Europe is still a huge economic bloc and anything
that might result in the Europeans building an option to avoid
the City would be unhelpful.”  Cameron’s decision has popular support, according to an
opinion poll by Populus for the London-based Times newspaper.
Almost 60 percent of those asked backed the veto with 14 percent
opposing it.  Niall Ferguson , a professor of economic history at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , agrees. Cameron’s stance
is good for London “because as things stand the euro zone is
heading for an austerity death spiral,” he said. “If I were a
rich German, I would already have put half my money in London.
In sterling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 