-- 
Monti Says Changes to Austerity Plan to Boost Fairness, Sway Investors

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-13T23:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/monti-says-budget-changes-will-boost-fairness-sway-investors.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said an
agreement to ease pension cuts and a new property tax will make
his emergency budget plan fairer, and its passage will convince
investors  Italy  can slash the euro region’s second-biggest debt.  “We are confident that markets will react positively to
the efforts Italy is making,  maybe not tomorrow, but the
reduction in borrowing costs that we anticipate in the coming
months will help spur the economy,” Monti told a parliamentary
committee in  Rome  last night.  Monti, in office less than a month, proposed the 30
billion-euro ($39 billion) package of austerity and growth
measures as he tries to show investors he can bring down
borrowing costs and tame a  debt  that is bigger than that of
 Spain ,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland combined. Yesterday he
accepted changes to the plan proposed by lawmakers in a bid to
build support for the measure before it goes to a vote in
Parliament this week.  The premier praised input from lawmakers that led to the
amendments proposed by his government yesterday. The plan will
be changed to raise the threshold on pensions that will be
stripped of cost-of-living  increases  to about 1,400 euros a
month in 2012, from less than the 1,000 in the original package.
The minimum pension is about 500 euros. Families paying the new
property tax will get a 50-euro credit per child, the amendment
says. Italians whose checking accounts average less than 5,000
euros a year will no longer have to pay a 34-euro annual tax.  Lost Revenue  The government will cover the lost revenue by increasing
the planned levy on Italians who took advantage of previous
amnesties on  tax evasion . The amendment will also add a tax
surcharge on pensions of more than 200,000 euros a year and will
impose a levy on property owned by Italians outside of Italy.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell more than 80 basis
points in the two days after Monti announced the measures on
Dec. 4. Bonds have given back those gains after European Union
leaders failed to come up with a comprehensive fix for the
region’s debt crisis at a summit ended Dec. 9. The jump in
yields is boosting the cost of financing Italy’s 1.9 trillion-
euro debt, and the Treasury had to pay 5.952 percent to sell
one-year debt on Dec. 12, about three times what  Germany  pays to
borrow for 10 years.  Tax Increases  Monti acknowledged that the tax increases and spending cuts
in the plan may hurt  economic growth  in the short run.  “The alternative was a deepening of the sovereign debt
crisis that wouldn’t have just led to a recession but the
destruction of wealth and the evaporation of the income of
Italians,” Monti told the budget committee in the Chamber of
Deputies.  The premier defended the plan from criticism that salaried
workers and pensioners, rather than the wealthy, will bear most
of the burden from the austerity measures. His government had
considered implementing a wealth tax, but determined that it
wouldn’t have generated enough revenue in the short term and
would have led to capital flight from Italy, he said.  The reintroduction of the property tax, higher levies on
the funds pardoned in previous tax amnesties and steeper fees on
bank and trading accounts were all elements that would affect
the wealthy more than wage earners.  “We have introduced a  wealth tax  that was doable, the
wealth tax that was possible,” he said.  The Chamber of Deputies will begin its debate on the plan
once it’s passed by the budget committee and is due to vote on
the package this week. The measure then passes to the Senate
where debate is set to start on Dec. 21 with a vote by Dec. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 