-- 
Monti Accepts Changes to Budget Package on Pension, Property Tax

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-12-13T18:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/monti-accepts-changes-to-budget-package-on-pension-property-tax.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government proposed changes to pension cuts and a new property
tax in its emergency budget package as it tries to build support
in parliament for a plan to trim the euro-region’s second-
biggest debt.  The plan will be amended to raise the threshold on pensions
that will be stripped of cost-of-living increases to 1,500 euros
($1,960) a month in 2012, from less than the 1,000 in the
original plan, according to a copy of the amendment. A new
property tax on primary residence will be lowered for families
by 50 euros per child, the amendment says.  The government will cover the lost revenue from the changes
by increasing the planned levy on Italians who took advantage of
previous amnesties on  tax evasion  and raising a new tax on
checking accounts that have a monthly balance of more than 5,000
euros.  Monti, in office less than a month, proposed the 30 billion
euro package of austerity and growth measures as he tries to
convince investors he can bring down borrowing costs and tame a
debt that is bigger than Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland
combined. The premier, who was appointed after  Silvio Berlusconi 
resigned, has no base in the legislature and needs to gain
support from parties across the political spectrum.  The original plan would have stripped pensions of twice the
minimum payout of cost of living adjustments for the next two
years. The new threshold is about three times the minimum. The
package also reinstates the main property tax that was abolished
by Berlusconi.  Today’s amendment will also add a tax surcharge on pensions
of more than 200,000 euros a year and will impose a levy on
property owned by Italians outside of  Italy .  The Chamber of Deputies is due to vote on the budget
package this week, with debate in the Senate due to begin on
Dec. 21 with a vote in the upper house by Dec. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 