-- 
Corzine Tells Senate Hearing He Didn’t Order Misuse of Funds at MF Global

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T21:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/top-mf-global-execs-say-they-don-t-know-how-funds-went-missing.html
Jon S. Corzine, the former chairman
and chief executive officer of MF Global Holdings Ltd., told
lawmakers he “never gave any instructions to misuse customer
funds” and didn’t give orders that could be misconstrued.  Corzine made the comments today at a Senate Agriculture
Committee hearing in  Washington  where lawmakers questioned him
and two other top MF Global officials about the whereabouts of
as much as $1.2 billion missing from customer accounts.  At a hearing last week before the House Agriculture
Committee, Corzine left open the possibility that transfers of
funds out of client accounts might have been a misinterpretation
of his intent by company officials.  Today, Corzine said he had never said anything regarding
the use of customer funds that could have been misunderstood.  “As far as I’m concerned I never gave instructions that
anybody could misconstrue,” he said. “Until Sunday night
before the bankruptcy I believed the people and systems at MF
Global were protecting customer funds.”  Corzine suggested that investigators should look at the
company’s treasury office, which was in charge of ensuring that
customer funds were used in accordance with federal regulations.  “The people who headed that are probably closest to the
scene of the action,” he said.  Treasury Operations  Corzine named Christine Serwinski, the company’s chief of
operations for  North America , as someone in charge of that
department, but said she had been on vacation during the final
days of MF Global.  Two other top executives of MF Global Holdings Ltd. also
told the panel that they didn’t know what happened to the client
funds that went missing in the days before the New York-based
brokerage filed for bankruptcy.  Henri Steenkamp, chief financial officer of MF Global, and
 Bradley Abelow , the firm’s president and chief operating
officer, said during the hearing that they still don’t know the
location of the funds.  “I do not know why these funds cannot be accounted for,
but based on the fact that no shortfalls had been reported to me
previously, it appears that any irregularities were likely
caused by events that occurred shortly before the bankruptcy
filing,” Steenkamp said.  Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat and chairwoman
of the agriculture panel, began the hearing by saying that the
lack of answers about the missing money raised “very troubling
questions.”  ‘Dark Ages’  “This isn’t the Dark Ages,” she said. “MF Global didn’t
keep their books with feather quills and dusty ledgers. The
rules about keeping customer money segregated are pretty
straightforward.”  Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas Republican, questioned
Corzine, Steenkamp and Abelow about a “break-the-glass”
contingency plan the company drafted in August or September in
the event of an eventual liquidation.  The plan required the company to perform daily calculations
of customers’ segregated funds, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the plan, who declined to be identified
because the plan is private. MF Global would draw down on
revolving credit lines, demand collateral from clients and then
liquidate more difficult financial positions, according to the
person.  Lost Liquidity  The plan was a simulation of what would occur if the
company lost liquidity and never went into operation, Abelow
said under questioning. “The next step in that plan was to
develop an operational plan,” he said. “I do not believe one
was ever developed.”  Lawmakers have joined regulators including the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission and U.S. Justice Department in probing the collapse.  The Senate panel is the second of three congressional
committees to hold hearings this month to probe the collapse of
MF Global, which filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on
Oct. 31. Corzine, who testified last week under oath, is also
scheduled to appear under subpoena from the House Financial
Services oversight and investigations subcommittee on Thursday.  MF Global sought  bankruptcy protection  less than a week
after reporting a quarterly loss of $191.6 million for the three
months through Sept. 30. Credit raters including Moody’s
Investors Service subsequently downgraded MF Global, citing
concerns about the firm’s ability to generate profits as well as
its exposure to European sovereign debt.  ‘Suspicious’ Transactions  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. decided against purchasing
MF Global on the weekend before the bankruptcy after learning of
missing client funds. James Kobak, a lawyer for the trustee,
said last week that investigators have discovered “suspicious”
transactions in the days before the company filed for
bankruptcy.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange and
auditor of MF Global, didn’t find problems in the segregated
accounts for Oct. 26. Transactions with client funds may have
occurred after the audit and may “have been designed to avoid
detection,” CME said in a statement last month.  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME, Giddens and Jill E. Sommers, the senior CFTC commissioner overseeing the
investigation, are also scheduled to testify.  In his testimony, Steenkamp said he didn’t have direct
involvement in managing accounts and fund transfers at the firm.
Handling customer funds was part of the treasury and treasury
operations divisions in the firm, he said.  No ‘Direct’ Involvement  “Upon my becoming CFO, treasury operations continued to
report to the head of global operations,” Steenkamp said.
“Direct involvement with operational matters such as bank
accounts or fund transfers has never been part of my duties.”  Steenkamp said he isn’t participating in current efforts to
find the missing money.  Stabenow and Roberts said they were concerned that the MF
Global meltdown and the loss of customer funds could have a
negative effect on the futures market.  “Our farmers and ranchers have lost trust in the system,”
Stabenow said. “They believed that there were safeguards in
place to protect their money in exactly this situation.”  Farmers and other agricultural producers whose funds are
tied up in the MF Global bankruptcy testified on the first panel
of witnesses.  “We expect to be made whole and have all of our funds
returned to us in a timely manner so that the integrity of the
exchange can be restored,” said Roger Hupfer, a grain-elevator
operator from Freeland,  Michigan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  