-- 
OPEC Said to Agree to 30M-Barrel Output

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-12-13T17:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/opec-said-to-agree-to-30m-barrel-output.html
Members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries including  Iran  and Venezuela
agreed that the group should set a production ceiling of 30
million barrels a day, an OPEC delegate said.  The group may not allocate individual quotas to each of the
12 nations because there may be disagreement on how the total
oil  output  should be distributed, the person said, declining to
be identified because the matter hasn’t been decided.  Oil ministers are arriving in Vienna for their meeting
tomorrow, when they will decide output levels for the first half
of 2012. OPEC’s last gathering in June broke up without
consensus when six members including Iran and Venezuela opposed
a push to pump more oil by  Saudi Arabia  and three other Gulf
nations, which went ahead with an increase regardless to make up
for the Libyan supplies lost during the armed rebellion.  “It’s not a matter of cut,” Venezuelan Energy Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said. “We have to accommodate again the Libyan
production but maintain the same level of production, not
increasing.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said he’s happy
with OPEC’s current output amid demand from “all over,” while
Iran called on the group to rein in production.  The world’s biggest crude exporter  pumped  10.047 million
barrels a day in November, al-Naimi said yesterday, the most in
at least three decades. Iran, the second-largest OPEC producer,
expects  oil prices  to fall next year unless the group’s members
comply with output quotas and rein in supplies to accommodate
rising exports from  Libya  and Iraq, the Persian state’s OPEC
Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said.  Formal Limits  OPEC last set a quota in December 2008, when the group
announced record supply cuts. The 11 members that are subject to
formal limits last month pumped 2.81 million barrels a day more
than the 24.845 million-barrel agreed ceiling, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Iraq  is not bound by a limit.  The group will need to produce 30.1 million barrels a day
next year to balance global crude supply and demand, its
secretariat said today in its monthly report. The  International
Energy Agency  estimates that OPEC will need to pump 30.2 million
barrels next year.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria , Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  