-- 
Coordination Needed in Stock, Futures Oversight, Gira Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-12-14T00:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/more-coordination-needed-in-stock-futures-regulation-gira-says.html
Consolidating oversight of equities,
options and  futures markets  would help regulators deter trading
aimed at defrauding investors or manipulating markets, a
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority executive said.  More coordination is needed because strategies designed to
deceive may operate across asset classes,  Thomas Gira , executive
vice president for market regulation at Finra, said today at a
meeting sponsored by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “That means having all the equities markets” in the
surveillance program, Gira said in  Washington . “It also means
having all the options markets. At some point, I think, it would
make sense for futures to be in there as well because this type
of activity is going across products and it’s important for
regulators to have a holistic view.”  U.S. regulators are seeking ways to improve supervision in
faster-paced, automated markets where firms may employ tactics
that disperse orders across stock venues and exchanges handling
related products. Some high-frequency strategies try to
“ignite” activity by traders whose computerized quoting
systems respond to bids and offers, while others may manipulate
prices and pursue profits by buying or selling related products
in different asset classes, Gira said.  Futures, Commodities  The CFTC oversees futures and commodities while the
Securities and Exchange Commission manages securities trading.
Finra monitors transactions that make up 80 percent of U.S.
equities volume, including those on venues run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   Finra uses about 300 automated surveillance patterns to
detect activity it may investigate, Gira said. Some are designed
for products such as options and fixed income. In equities, it
monitors about 8 billion quotes a day, 2 billion orders and 75
million transactions, he said.  “We developed patterns because of high-frequency
trading,” Gira said. None are specific to automated firms since
Finra is “indifferent” to how the trading occurs, he said.  Gira commented at a meeting of the CFTC’s technology
advisory committee. Speakers including Richard Gorelick, chief
executive officer of RGM Advisors Inc., and David Leinweber,
head of the Center for Innovative Financial Technology in the
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory’s computational research
division, discussed trading by high-frequency firms and efforts
to assess the impact their activity has on markets.  Trading Strategies  The CFTC, SEC, Finra and foreign regulators are trying to
improve their understanding of diverse strategies lumped
together as high-frequency trading. These include market making,
computer-driven programs that seek to arbitrage price
differences between an index and its component stocks, and other
automated strategies that make trading decisions based on the
data they receive.  Gorelick said investment banks,  hedge funds , commodity
trading advisers, automated firms and some retail investors use
high-frequency techniques when they buy and sell products. Many
firms use quantitative and statistical approaches to determine
the prices at which they’ll buy or sell and submit their orders
to the market, he said.  About 55 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from firms
using high-frequency trading strategies, according to  Adam Sussman , a partner and director of research at Tabb Group LLC in
New York. More than half of that -- 32 percent of total stock
volume -- is from market makers, he said.  Market Making  Market making accounts for about 55 percent of U.S. equity
index futures trading, with about 23 percent coming from firms
using high-frequency strategies, according to Tabb Group. For
 fixed-income  derivatives, 60 percent of exchange-traded volume
comes from market makers, while about 22 percent is from high-
frequency firms, Tabb said.  Finra has found that brokers it monitors employ “very
disparate practices in terms of the controls” they use to make
sure their algorithms or strategies are not trading more than
they intend or exceeding price or volume limits, Gira said. The
regulator examines firms to see how they manage their
algorithms, how they’re tested prior to being put into use and
whether traders are able to override built-in controls.  Many of the cases Finra is examining involve activity that
may result from “supervisory deficiencies” rather than
“purposeful intent,” Gira said.  Some of the “more abusive” strategies that employ high-
frequency techniques are a “crime of pennies,” Gira said. The
regulator’s surveillance systems may generate thousands of
alerts of activity that doesn’t appear profitable or that looks
benign until it’s collected and patterns emerge, he said.  “The algos that are being used morph over time and people
adapt when you shut certain doors,” Gira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  