-- 
Morgan Stanley Agrees to Settle MBIA Suit, Forecasts $1.2 Billion Charge

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-12-13T21:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/morgan-stanley-agrees-to-settle-mbia-suit-forecasts-1-2-billion-charge.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  reached a settlement
with  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  over credit-default swaps that led to billions of
dollars of losses for the bank, agreeing to terminate the
contracts and drop a challenge to the insurer’s restructuring.  MBIA will make a $1.1 billion cash payment to Morgan
Stanley as part of the settlement, according to a person
familiar with the agreement who asked not to be named because
the amount hasn’t been made public. Morgan Stanley will take a
$1.2 billion loss this quarter related to the deal, the New
York-based bank said today in a statement.  Morgan Stanley’s exposure to MBIA, and its attempts to
hedge those risks, have resulted in losses of about $3 billion
since the start of 2008, not including today’s announcement. The
settlement will increase Morgan Stanley’s capital, boosting the
Tier 1 common ratio under new rules by about 75 basis points,
according to the statement.  “It’s critical that we reposition for the new regulatory
environment and do so quickly,” Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said in the statement. “A top priority for
2011 was to address this large outstanding legacy exposure and
this settlement is consistent with our efforts to build capital
and de-risk the balance sheet.”  Morgan Stanley fell 21 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $15.17 at
4:15 p.m. in New York, after climbing as much as 7.6 percent.
MBIA increased 0.7 percent to $11.48.  MBIA Hedges  The bank’s loss will come from writing down the value of
the swap contracts with MBIA. Morgan Stanley had $4.9 billion of
gross derivative counterparty risk to MBIA as of Sept. 30, and
$2.7 billion after credit valuation adjustments, according to
its quarterly filing with the SEC. The bank also had about $700
million of hedges against MBIA.  The agreement “removes a legal headache, and should give a
boost to Morgan’s balance-sheet efficiency”  Glenn Schorr , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a note to investors.
The deal “could also cause the firm’s CDS spread to tighten as
earnings volatility should decline,” Schorr said.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, will withdraw a suit
against Morgan Stanley relating to $223 million of residential
mortgage-backed securities. Morgan Stanley plans to end its
participation in litigation challenging the split of the
insurer’s business.  “This settlement is good for Morgan Stanley, good for MBIA
and good for the markets and our financial system, allowing
firms to move forward and rebuild,” Benjamin Lawsky, New York
state’s financial services superintendent, said in a separate
statement.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to comment.  Bank of America  The settlement “significantly” reduces Morgan Stanley’s
risk-weighted assets under new rules from the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , known as Basel III, according to the
statement. Morgan Stanley had a Basel III Tier 1 common ratio of
more than 7 percent as of Sept. 30, and the increase brings it
closer to the range of 8 percent to 10 percent the firm said it
planned to reach by the end of 2012.  Morgan Stanley’s MBIA exposure would have accounted for as
much as 15 percent of the firm’s risk-weighted assets under
Basel III, and the risk may have lasted for more than 10 years,
 Howard Chen , a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, wrote in a note
to investors.  Buyback Speculation  The deal increases the likelihood that Morgan Stanley will
buy back shares or increase the dividend next year, according to
Ed Najarian, an analyst at International Strategy & Investment
Group Inc. Morgan Stanley has authorization for $1.6 billion of
share repurchases. The firm hasn’t bought back any stock in the
first nine months of this year, and would need regulatory
approval to do so.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. lender by
assets, made a preliminary offer to MBIA earlier this year aimed
at settling their legal dispute tied to defective mortgages, two
people briefed on discussions said in July. The companies were
split on how much the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank would
have to pay to resolve the disagreement.  About two dozen banks and investment firms sued MBIA and
regulators after the 2009 split of its main bond-insurance unit
into two businesses. The division created a new company holding
the state and municipal-bond guarantee business the insurer
seeks to maintain, and left the old unit holding soured
mortgage-backed debt that caused them to be shut out of the
market. Lenders claimed the restructuring was a “fraudulent
conveyance” that rendered the old insurer, MBIA Insurance
Corp., insolvent.  Ending Lawsuits  Units of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) , HSBC Holdings Plc, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
pulled out of the suits in the past four months, according to
court papers. Funds run by New York-based Fir Tree Partners
dropped out of a similar lawsuit by  hedge funds  and Third Avenue
Trust, also based in New York, ended a separate case in October.
Five of 18 banks that sued MBIA and the New York State Insurance
Department including UBS AG, BNP Paribas SA, and Bank of America
are still fighting the split.  “The remaining plaintiff policyholders will continue to
fight to restore the billions fraudulently taken from MBIA
Insurance,” Robert J. Giuffra, lead counsel for the banks and a
partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP in  New York , said in a
separate statement.  Settlements  Banks have discontinued litigation as MBIA negotiates
settlements over the credit-default swaps it sold to the lenders
to protect against losses on mortgage securities and other debt.
MBIA said Nov. 10 that it had settled $10.6 billion of
transactions since Sept. 30 at an undisclosed cost, bringing the
amount of bets terminated this year to $23 billion.  The cost to protect against a default by the MBIA unit that
sold the guarantees fell. Credit-default swaps eased 8
percentage points to a mid-price of 35 percent upfront as of
9:37 a.m. in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $3.5 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of MBIA’s debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  