-- 
Mortgage Bonds Rally as Fed Backstop Seen in QE3: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-12-13T20:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mortgage-bonds-rally-as-fed-backstop-seen-in-europe-crisis-credit-markets.html
Relative yields on mortgage-backed
securities that guide new loan rates fell to the lowest in five
months as investors wager the  Federal Reserve  is on standby to
expand its holdings if the  U.S. economy  or  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis worsens.  Yields  on Fannie Mae’s current-coupon, 30-year bonds ended
last week at 94 basis points more than 10-year Treasuries, the
narrowest since July 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The spread widened to 105 basis points as of 2:53 p.m. in New
York, after reaching 121 on Nov. 24.  The Fed is already bolstering the market, adding “dollar
roll” trades this month that lower financing costs for
investors, after starting in October to recycle proceeds from
 past investments  in housing-related debt to help real estate
escape its worst slump since the 1930s. While a smaller share of
economists predict the central bank will add to its $1 trillion
of holdings as the U.S. grows, bond buyers may benefit
regardless, said Dwight Asset Management Co.’s  Paul Norris .  “Let’s say that something bad happens in Europe,” said
Norris, a senior  money manager  whose Burlington, Vermont-based
firm oversees about $50 billion. “Initially mortgages may widen
out a bit but what that would likely lead to is a really quick
implementation of QE3,” he said, referring to what would be the
third round of Fed asset purchases called quantitative easing.  If the situation is reversed and “Europe gets its act
together,” benchmark  interest rates  would probably rise,
benefiting mortgage-bonds spreads partly by reducing refinancing
and the supply of new securities, Norris said.  Money managers are “overweight” on agency-mortgage bonds
by the most in at least two years, JPMorgan Chase & Co. says.  Economists Forecast  While Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , Governor
 Daniel Tarullo  and Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley have signaled more mortgage-bond purchases are possible,
economists say it’s growing less likely.  About 49 percent surveyed by Bloomberg News see the Fed
announcing next year additional debt buying, down from more than
two-thirds before the central bank’s November meeting. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  said today the “economy has been
expanding moderately,” at the conclusion of its meeting in
 Washington , and refrained from taking new actions to lower
borrowing costs.  Elsewhere in credit markets, U.S. interest-rate swap
spreads widened for a third day after a report that German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is rejecting an increase in the upper
limit of funding for Europe’s bailout mechanism. The cost to
protect Morgan Stanley debt from losses tumbled after the bank
reached a settlement with MBIA Inc. over credit-default swaps on
commercial-mortgage bonds. Vivendi SA increased the interest
margin on a planned 1 billion euro ($1.3 billion) credit line.  Credit Risk Measures  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield widened 2.46 basis
points to 46.39 basis points as of 2:47 p.m. in  New York , the
most since Dec. 2.  The measure, which rises when investors favor  government
bonds , has expanded from 41.55 on Nov. 30, and gained as Reuters
reported that Merkel has rejected raising the upper limit of
funding for the European Stability Mechanism, the region’s
permanent bailout fund.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 126.2, according to data provider CMA. The gauge has
climbed from 79 on Feb. 8.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped 1.5 to 184.25, according to
JPMorgan at 11 a.m. in  London .  MBIA Settlement  The indexes typically drop as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Contracts tied to Morgan Stanley debt fell 22.8 basis
points to 402 as of 11:31 a.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  MBIA will make a $1.1 billion cash payment to Morgan
Stanley as part of the settlement, according to a person
familiar with the agreement who asked not to be named because
the amount hasn’t been made public. Morgan Stanley will take a
$1.2 billion loss this quarter related to the deal, the New
York-based bank said today in a statement.  Vivendi Increases  Vivendi increased the interest margin to 85 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the transaction. The Paris-based
company agreed to lift the amount of interest and fees it pays
after lenders rejected the 75 basis-point margin it initially
proposed, the people said. The  credit line  will be for five
years, with no extension options, the people said.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
fell 0.3 cent to 90.39 cents on the dollar, the lowest level
since Nov. 29. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has declined from 90.83
on Dec. 6.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields rose 3 basis points to
411, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The measure has
ranged this year from 259 on Jan. 5 to 496 on Oct. 4.  Anticipated Transactions  The Fed, which under QE1  bought  $1.25 trillion of mortgage
securities and $172 billion of other agency debt through March
2010, has purchased a net $56.1 billion since October to offset
prepayments and maturities, Bloomberg data show. The
acquisitions are focused on the $5.3 trillion market of home-
loan bonds guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.  Anticipation of more transactions may be boosting demand
among private investors. About 64 percent of money managers
surveyed by JPMorgan are “overweight” agency mortgage
securities, or holding a greater percentage than found in
benchmark indexes, the highest since at least mid-2009,
according to a Dec. 9 report by the New York-based bank.  Because of the potential for QE3, government-backed
mortgage securities “offer that rare beast: positive exposure
to event risk,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, wrote in a Dec. 7
report. He recommended the bonds over other debt “within the
interest rate sphere,” such as Treasuries, in his 2012 outlook.  Primary Dealer Forecast  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers will
start another QE program next quarter, 16 of the 21 primary
dealers of U.S. government securities that trade with the
central bank said in a Bloomberg News survey last month. The Fed
may buy about $545 billion in home-loan debt, based on the
median of the firms that provided estimates.  A majority of 51 percent of the 41 economists polled by
Bloomberg from Dec. 7 through Dec. 9 said the central bank will
refrain from QE3. That contrasts with a survey before the Fed’s
November meeting that showed 69 percent forecasting the action.
This month, 13 percent of the economists said they expect the
move will be announced in January and 21 percent in March.  The likelihood has fallen after the  unemployment rate 
declined to 8.6 percent from 9.1 percent, U.S. manufacturing
expanded at the fastest pace in 5 months and vehicle sales
climbed to their highest level in over 2 years.  ‘Significant Downside Risks’  Today’s statement reiterated the warning at the Fed’s two
previous meetings that “Strains in global financial markets
continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.” Bernanke said last month that the sentence refers to
the European debt crisis.  A program may include $700 billion of home-loan securities,
Citigroup Inc. analysts said. That figure reflects how much
would be needed to “tangibly influence” mortgage rates without
disrupting functioning in the market, analysts Inger Daniels and
Mayank Singhal wrote in the Dec. 9 report.  Tarullo, in an October speech, said additional mortgage-
bond purchases should “move back up toward the top of the list
of options” because “the aggregate-demand effect should be
felt not just in new-home purchases, but also in the added
purchasing power of existing homeowners who are able to
refinance.”  Dollar Rolls  Yellen said in a Nov. 29 speech that she sees “see a
strong case for additional policies to foster more-rapid
recovery in the housing sector.” If the Fed opted to buy more
bonds, “it might make sense” for much of those to consist of
mortgage securities to boost the housing market, Dudley said
Nov. 17.  During the week ended Dec. 7, the Fed engaged in $4.35
billion of paired purchases and sales of mortgage securities in
different months for the first time since starting to reinvest
in the market along with its “Operation Twist” for Treasuries.  Those so-called dollar rolls boosted mortgage bonds last
week, JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff and Morgan Stanley
analysts Vipul Jain, Janaki Rao and Zofia Koscielniak said. The
implied cost of financing Fannie Mae 3.5 percent bonds, which
had climbed in a few weeks from about 30 basis points to almost
50 basis points, retraced that advance, according to JPMorgan.  “Although  funding markets  in MBS have not shown
significant signs of stress, financing rates have gone up in
tandem with other funding rates, especially around year-end, and
the Fed action helps alleviate some of those pressures,” the
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a Dec. 9 report.  Financing Rates  With dollar rolls, an investor seeking to borrow money
enters into contracts to sell mortgage securities in any month
and then buy similar bonds the following month; a lender would
undertake the opposite trades. Investors entering into
transactions for other reasons may be on either side of the
contracts.  The transactions will “facilitate the settlement of our
outstanding MBS purchases,” Jonathan Freed, a New York Fed
spokesman, said in a Dec. 6 e-mailed statement.  The Fed’s use of the trades underscored the central bank’s
commitment to supporting the market, Dwight Asset’s Norris said.
“All of their speeches that I’ve read and all of the anecdotal
evidence points to them being fully involved,” he said.  While the central bank probably isn’t ready to announce
additional mortgage-bond buying, it may provide new aid to the
market if it details changes to its so-called communication
strategy in a way that reduces expected interest-rate
volatility, he added. Higher  forecasted volatility  damages
investors by increasing doubt about when the debt will be repaid
as projected homeowner refinancing fluctuates and by boosting
hedging costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  