-- 
Mortgage-Bond Repo Lenders Stiffen Some Loan Terms, Invesco Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-12-13T22:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mortgage-bond-repo-lenders-stiffen-some-loan-terms-invesco-says.html
Short-term funding secured by
mortgage bonds is tightening after prices on securities used as
collateral became more volatile and providers scale back their
balance sheets before year-end,  Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR) 
Chief Investment Officer John Anzalone said.  The down payments demanded for loans that are secured by
 mortgage securities  lacking government backing have risen at
some providers during the past two months, Anzalone said today
in a telephone interview. The so-called haircuts in repurchase-
agreement, or repo, loans typically range from 20 percent to 30
percent, depending on the types of bonds serving as collateral,
after holding steady in a range of 15 percent to 30 percent, he
said.  “I wouldn’t say we’ve seen a widespread trend of
everybody’s raising their haircuts,” he said. Instead, “the
more aggressive players have moved back toward everybody else.”  Lending terms are tightening after holding steady as the
value of some securities dropped as much as 40 percent from
highs earlier this year. Haircuts protect lenders such as banks
and money-market funds against price declines in the collateral
in the event the borrower defaults.  The real estate investment trust managed by Atlanta-based
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  fell 5.8 percent last week, after cutting its
dividend to 65 cents a share, from 80 cents. The REIT rose 2.1
percent in New York trading today to $14.80 a share after
announcing plans to buy back as many as 7 million shares and
explaining the cut, which stemmed partly from the “market
environment and portfolio repositioning” affecting its funding.  Higher Repo Rates  In repo financing, securities such as Treasuries and
mortgage bonds are sold to a lender with an agreement by the
borrower to buy them back later. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The REIT, which relies on more than 20 counterparties for
financing, has also seen  interest rates  on repo increase as
providers seek to reduce their balance sheets to bolster  capital
ratios  heading into the end of the calendar year. Such activity
is typical behavior this time of year, Anzalone said, and “we
totally expect that to normalize as we roll things in January.”  The cost of one-month repo financing for government-backed
mortgage securities rose to 29 basis points as of 3:33 p.m.,
from 20 basis points on Nov. 4, according to data from ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  Some types of non-agency home-loan securities lacking
government backing have dropped as much as 40 percent since
their highs in the first quarter, Bruce Richards, co-founder of
hedge fund Marathon Asset Management LP, said Dec. 1 on
Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  