-- 
Tottenham Prepared to Move for Real’s Kaka, Express Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-13T11:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/tottenham-prepared-to-move-for-real-s-kaka-express-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Kaka Loan  Tottenham is ready to make a January move to take Kaka on
loan from Real Madrid for the rest of the season, the  Daily
Express  said.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  wants to add another creative
player and Kaka has struggled to win a regular place in the Real
team. The Spanish club is set to offload the 29-year-old
Brazilian at the end of the season, if not sooner, the Express
said.  China Bound?  China’s Shanghai Shenjua has set its sights on Didier Drogba after signing his Chelsea teammate  Nicolas Anelka , the
 Evening Standard  said.  Anelka yesterday agreed to a two-year contract worth a
reported 10.6 million euros ($14.1 million) annually to move in
January. Drogba’s contract expires after this season and talks
with Chelsea over an extension have broken down, the Standard
said.  QPR Wants Zamora  Queens Park Rangers have joined the race to sign  Bobby Zamora  following a rift between the striker and Fulham manager
 Martin Jol , the  Daily Mail  said.  Sunderland and Aston Villa are also interested in the 30-
year-old. QPR would match or even increase his current 45,000
pounds-per-week salary, though the 10 million-pound transfer fee
could be a snag, the Mail said.  Hoy, Not Foy  Olympic cycling champion Chris Hoy has been received abuse
from Tottenham fans aimed at Premier League referee Chris Foy,
the  Daily Mirror  said.  Spurs supporters bombarded the four-time medal winner’s
Twitter account with barbs for Foy following their club’s loss
at Stoke two days ago, the Mirror said. Spurs manager Harry
Redknapp criticized Foy for missing several calls as his team’s
11-match unbeaten run was ended.  Neville’s Replacement?  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is ready to make a
move for Crystal Palace defender Nathaniel Clyne, the  Daily Mail 
said.  Ferguson was impressed with the 20-year-old’s composure in
Palace’s upset of United in the League Cup quarterfinals last
month and sees him as a possible replacement for the retired
Gary Neville, the Mail said. Newcastle, Fulham, Aston Villa and
Everton have also shown interest, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 