-- 
Toyota Tsusho to Supply World’s First Coal-Methane LNG Project

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-12-13T09:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/toyota-tsusho-to-supply-world-s-first-coal-methane-lng-project.html
Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , the trading
house part-owned by Japan’s biggest automaker, said it will sell
coal-bed methane to the world’s first liquefied natural gas
project to use the fuel.  The company will supply the fuel to  BG Group Plc ’s LNG
plant for 20 years, according to a statement today from Nagoya,
Japan-based Toyota Tsusho. The methane will be extracted from a
coal bed in Queensland,  Australia , where the trader owns 15
percent in a gas project.  BG Group’s Queensland Curtis LNG plant, due online in 2014,
will become the world’s first facility to use coal-bed methane
for liquefaction, a process that allows gas to be transported.
The plant has signed a sales contract with a Japanese power
company and a gas company, Toyota Tsusho said, without
disclosing the names of the buyers.  A boom in gas extraction from non-traditional sources, such
as from shale rock and coal deposits, has helped the U.S. slash
imports of the fuel and lower LNG prices to less than a third of
that paid by  Japan , the world’s biggest LNG importer. Japanese
companies are following suit as they add non-traditional assets
to their energy holdings.  Toyota Motor owns 21.6 percent and Toyota Industries Corp.
11.1 percent of Toyota Tsusho, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest trading house, expanded
its  northwest Australian gas exploration  program to non-
traditional deposits two weeks ago. Mitsui & Co., the second-
biggest trader, said Dec. 6 it aims to expand its shale business
outside the U.S. and  Poland  after completing a transaction to
buy a stake in a Texas shale oil and gas project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  