-- 
Mozambique Ports Grow With Rio Tinto Appetite for Coal: Freight

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-12-13T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mozambique-ports-grow-with-rio-tinto-appetite-for-coal-freight.html
Roads were little more than rubble
and there was barely enough working equipment to load cargo at
Maputo port in 2003. Then Mozambique brought in  Grindrod Ltd. (GND) 
and  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  to operate the harbor.  Since then, a coal-mining boom has fueled expansion at the
southern African nation’s harbors.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  bought Sydney-
based  Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV)  for A$3.4 billion ($3.4 billion) in
July to add 25 million tons of Mozambican coal to its annual
output.  “Rio Tinto has been buying up a lot of assets in
Mozambique, and they stand to be one of the significant
beneficiaries there,” Clinton Duncan, resource analyst at Avior
Research (Pty) Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview.  The number of ships docking at Maputo has almost doubled to
1,030 a year since 2003, while coal exports have climbed from
1.5 million metric tons to more than 4 million tons and chrome
shipments are set to reach about 2 million tons, a five-fold
increase, said Ricardo Roberts, commercial manager of the port.  Mozambique is attracting exporters, such as Rio Tinto and
 Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , from neighboring  South Africa , which is burdened
with high port costs and a lack of rail capacity.  Grindrod,  Africa ’s largest shipping company, has gained 9.5
percent since Aug. 15, paring its drop this year to 23 percent,
compared with a 0.3 percent increase in the benchmark  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share Index . The median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is for the shares to gain 5.5 percent to
15.40 rand in the next 12 months.  Coal Boom  “If you look at the infrastructure development in
Mozambique, Grindrod is directly involved and will benefit from
any developments at the port and the area around it,” said
Patrice Rassou, head of equities at Sanlam Investment
Management, in a phone interview from Cape Town. Sanlam, the
country’s third-largest private money-manager, holds the stock.  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  and  Coal of Africa Ltd. (CZA)  are bringing
shipments from mines in northern South Africa to Maputo as the
miners face restrictions in using South Africa’s Richards Bay
port.  A coal-mining boom is fueling development in the southern
African nation after a 16-year civil war that ended in 1992
destroyed infrastructure. Durban, South Africa-based Grindrod is
spending as much as $800 million to boost capacity by 20 million
tons at the coal terminal in the next four years.  Cargo-handling capacity at the Maputo port, 286 miles north
of Durban harbor, is set to climb to 50 million tons by 2030
from about 13 million tons currently, according to David Rennie,
Grindrod’s executive director of ports and terminals. Grindrod
and DP World of Dubai have a 25 percent stake each in the port
and the government owns the rest.  ‘Unlock Potential’  “It’s important for Mozambique to maximize capacity at the
ports to be trade enablers,” Rennie said. “If we do our job
properly, it will unlock potential for exporters and generate
economic growth and jobs.”  Rio Tinto and Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE5)  are investing in
Beira and Nacala ports, north of Maputo, to serve their mines in
the central region of the country.  A former Portuguese colony, Mozambique has stabilized its
economy since the end of a civil war that killed almost 1
million people, benefiting from debt relief and investment in
large projects. The Mozal aluminum smelter, for instance, is 47
percent owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL) , the world’s largest mining
company. The economy has expanded an average 8 percent a year in
the past decade and is forecast to grow 7.2 percent in 2011,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  China  Power  India and China are ramping up power and steel production
to meet demands of growing populations, driving coal production
in  Mozambique . Annual output of the fuel in the southern African
nation is forecast to reach 20 million tons by 2015, about 8
percent of South Africa’s output, from 35,700 tons last year,
according to  Frost & Sullivan , a San Antonio research firm.  Foreign investment in mining is set to reach $14 billion in
the next four years, $9.5 billion of which is earmarked for
coal.  “Economic reforms, attractive mining sector policies and
increasing infrastructure development have generated sustained
economic growth rates in Mozambique,” Christy Tawii, research
associate at Frost & Sullivan in Cape Town, said on its website.  Rio Tinto declined to comment on its plans, Johannesburg-
based spokesman Gugulakhe Lourie said in an e-mail. The stock
has gained 13 percent in  London  since the beginning of October,
paring its decline this year to 29 percent.  Sappi Exports  Coal production in landlocked  Botswana  and  Zimbabwe  is also
helping to drive the expansion of Mozambique’s harbors.  Hwange
Colliery Ltd. (HWANGE) , Zimbabwe’s largest coal miner, plans to ship
30,000 to 50,000 tons of coal through Maputo early next year,
Oliver Maponga, business development manager, said on Oct. 18.  For South African coal miners, Maputo has become an
alternative to get their exports to the east. South Africa’s
Richard’s Bay Coal Terminal, Africa’s biggest export facility
for the fuel, restricts access to smaller producers because it’s
operated by shareholders including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and
 Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   “Recent developments with Grindrod for the future
development of the Maputo port are encouraging and our volume
growth is aligned to the planned expansion in the rail and
portside capacity,” Coal of Africa Chief Executive Officer John Wallington said in an e-mail.  The improvement at Maputo is not just benefiting miners.
Johannesburg-based Sappi, the world’s largest maker of glossy
paper, is considering using Maputo for shipments from its
Nelspruit mill, located in South Africa’s northeastern
Mpumalanga province bordering Mozambique. That’s cheaper and
more efficient than South African ports, which are owned and
operated by the government, Glenn Adriaanse, Sappi’s export
manager, said in a phone interview from Durban on Nov. 21.  “We are seriously looking at ramping up production at our
Nelspruit mill for export purposes,” said Adriaanse.
“Mozambique is a serious option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  