-- 
Pentagon Seeks $756.9 Million Overpayment Refund From Supreme Foodservice

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-12-13T22:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/pentagon-seeks-756-9-million-refund-from-supreme-foodservice.html
The Pentagon is pressing one of the
largest contractors in  Afghanistan , Supreme Foodservice AG, to
refund within 30 days overpayments of $756.9 million in
unsupported transportation costs, according to a spokeswoman.  The Defense Logistics Agency made the decision last week
“after extensive negotiations, in which Supreme and the agency
were unable to agree on final rates” for a contract first
awarded in December 2005, said agency spokeswoman Mimi
Schirmacher in a statement.  Supreme Foodservice  of Ziegelbrucke,  Switzerland , through
Sept. 30 has been paid $5.5 billion since 2005 to supply and
transport food, water, three-layered corrugated packing boxes
and other non-food items to U.S. troops in Afghanistan. It
provides fresh fruits and vegetables to as many as  246 sites  in
Afghanistan under the agency’s “Subsistence Prime Vendor”
program.  Schirmacher said the  Defense Logistics Agency  can’t break
down the $756.9 million by category “since it involves
proprietary pricing information.”  Company spokeswoman Victoria Frost said in an e-mail that
the contested rates have been in negotiations for several years.
The company “strongly disputes” the repayment request and will
appeal, she said.  ‘Just How Bad’  Pentagon Inspector General Gordon Heddell, whose auditors
in a March  report  first highlighted Defense Logistics Agency
oversight deficiencies, said at a Dec. 7 hearing that the
original Supreme contract was “an example of just how bad it
can get.” The contract “wasn’t well-designed” or “well-
thought out.”  Only this year has the defense agency assessed final
transportation rates for a contract awarded in 2005, Heddell
said.  “We are just now determining what should have been the
reasonable and fair prices to pay,” Heddell told a House
oversight committee.  Supreme’s head of Washington-based operations is Robert Dail, a former Army Lieutenant General who headed the DLA
between August 2006 and November 2008. He presented Supreme in
January 2007 with the agency’s “New Contractor of the Year
Award.” He joined Supreme in March 2009 as president of Supreme
Group USA in Reston, Virginia.  Pricing Dispute  Frost said the $756.9 million represented the difference
between “previously agreed upon” interim transportation rates
and those DLA “unilaterally determined” were final.  These final prices “differed significantly” from the
temporary rates, she said.  “Supreme intends to submit a claim to DLA that reflects
the fair and reasonable price of performing the work in
Afghanistan’s tough, remote and dangerous environment,” she
said.  “Disagreements with unilateral actions are a fairly
routine part of doing business with the government,” she said.
“However, since this particular decision may be the subject of
litigation, Supreme will not provide any further comments.”  Heddell’s earlier audit disclosed that DLA personnel
overseeing the Supreme contracts failed to prevent overpayments
and potentially incorrect charges.  Transport Overpayment  The agency may have overpaid $124.3 million for
transportation and corrugated packing boxes, according to the
 report . Pentagon personnel also had no assurance that billings
for another $103 million in boxes were accurate or “even
chargeable to the contract,” it said.  The company also was paid about $455 million for airlifting
fresh fruits and vegetables from storage areas in the  United
Arab Emirates  to Afghanistan, without military personnel
ensuring the prices were “fair and reasonable,” according to
the audit.  The audit was mandated by Congress in the fiscal 2008
defense bill. It required the inspector general to identify
“potential fraud, waste and abuse” in contracts for logistical
support for Iraq and Afghanistan.  Supreme provided food and non-food distribution as required
while Defense Logistics Agency personnel “did not adhere” to
federal regulations for making contract provisions final “in a
timely manner,” the audit said.  The agency also failed to set up quality assurance and
other procedures “to monitor contractor costs and
performance,” it said.  Contract Renewed  The company’s initial December 2005 contract was renewed in
December 2010 for one base-year and two six-month options.  The Heddell audit recommended that DLA in future contract
modifications review Supreme Foodservice “proposed profit rates
to ensure the rates reflect any reduced cost risks as a result
of more than four years of actual contract performance.”  The company has claimed profit rates of 13 percent for
helicopter costs, 10 percent for fixed-wing aircraft and 9
percent for trucking, the audit said.  Supreme Foodservice between December 2005 and December 2008
was overpaid an estimated $98.4 million for transportation costs
in part because reimbursement rates “were significantly higher
than the rates needed to reimburse the vendor for costs and
associated profits,” the report said.  Supreme also may have been overpaid a $1.8 million
performance bonus because Pentagon personnel didn’t adequately
review company claims.  The payment was based on records indicating the company
achieved a 99.4 percent order “fill-rate” during the six-month
period ending December 2008. The audit concluded that Pentagon
contracts officers reviewed only 1.6 percent of orders to
determine the high rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  