-- 
PG&E Not Seeking More Solar Tax-Equity Deals, CEO Earley Says

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-12-13T21:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/pg-e-not-seeking-more-solar-tax-equity-deals-ceo-earley-says.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
largest utility, has shut a unit that was investing in renewable
energy projects, Chief Executive Officer Anthony Earley said
yesterday.  Earley said the company will no longer be making tax-equity
investments in solar projects as it focuses on improving its
utility operations in the wake of a pipeline explosion that
killed eight people last year in San Bruno, California.  “I didn’t think it would be appropriate for us to be
looking at opportunities outside of our utility,” Earley said
at a press event in San Francisco. “Given our circumstances, we
need to be focused on our utility,” he said.  PG&E will continue to manage its existing investments in
project financing funds for SolarCity Corp. and SunRun Inc.,
Earley said. “We are not looking for more,” he said.  In such arrangements, PG&E provides capital needed to
install the systems and in return receives payments from SunRun
and SolarCity customers, as well as any local solar energy
rebates and benefits from the 30 percent federal investment tax
credit for renewable energy.  PG&E created a $100 million tax-equity fund in January 2010
with SunRun to help the company install more than 3,500 U.S.
home solar arrays. It executed a similar $60 million deal with
SolarCity in June 2010.  The utility will continue to buy power from solar plants
and wind farms to help it get one-third of its electricity from
renewable energy by 2020, as required by state law, Earley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  