-- 
Philippine House Impeaches Chief Justice Amid Arroyo Election-Fraud Probe

-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-12-13T01:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/philippine-house-impeaches-chief-justice-amid-arroyo-election-fraud-probe.html
The Philippine House of
Representatives signed a resolution to impeach Chief Justice
Renato Corona on grounds the top magistrate has shown bias
toward the country’s former leader amid a corruption probe.  A majority of the chamber’s more than 280 lawmakers signed
the document to remove Corona, paving the way for an impeachment
tribunal in the Senate, the  Associated Press  reported. President
 Benigno Aquino  is seeking to prosecute former President  Gloria Arroyo , who appointed 12 of the court’s 15 magistrates, for
election fraud.  Aquino’s bid to convict Arroyo is a “political battle
royal,” Benito Lim, a political science professor at Ateneo de
Manila University, said by telephone yesterday before the
decision in parliament. Without the impeachment the court would
probably continue to try and block Aquino’s probe, he said.  Aquino, who won election with the campaign slogan “If
There’s No Corruption, There’s No Poverty,” has criticized the
court for not being impartial. Arroyo, who is under hospital
arrest, appointed Corona, her former chief of staff, to the
chief justice position shortly before her term ended in June
last year.  Arroyo named Corona justice in 2002, and he has ruled more
than 20 times in her favor since then, court records show. Two
senators and civil society groups have asked Corona to recuse
himself from cases involving Arroyo due to his perceived bias.  ‘Constitutional Crisis’  “We do not want to see a constitutional crisis befall our
democracy,” Corona told court employees in a speech yesterday
before the decision, in which he vowed to fight to stay in
office. “But if we are challenged to defend our independence,
we shall not meekly walk away.”  The complaint gives  grounds  for removing Corona including
the betrayal of public trust, according to a report on the ABS-
CBN News Channel website that cited a draft copy.  Aquino criticized the high court on Dec. 5 for blocking the
creation of a “truth commission” that would have investigated
Arroyo, saying the decision raised doubts about its
impartiality. He also faulted the court for allowing the former
leader on Nov. 15 to seek medical care overseas, a decision
superseded by her arrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  