-- 
Post-Dispatch Owner Lee Wins Court Approval of $20 Million Bankruptcy Loan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-12-13T20:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/post-dispatch-owner-lee-wins-court-approval-of-20-million-bankruptcy-loan.html
Lee Enterprises Inc. , the owner of
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and 47 other daily U.S. newspapers,
won permission to borrow as much as $20 million to help fund
operations as it seeks court approval of a restructuring plan
supported by creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross granted Lee interim
approval of the bankruptcy loan today in Wilmington,  Delaware .
The company is to return to court Jan. 6 for permission to
borrow another $20 million.  Lee also scheduled a Jan. 23 hearing to seek approval of
its pre-packaged plan.  The newspaper publisher acquired Pulitzer Inc. in 2005 to
gain control of the Post-Dispatch. In addition to the 48 daily
newspapers, Lee has 300 specialty publications and interests in
four other dailies.  The company sought  bankruptcy protection  yesterday after
waning demand for advertising led to a three-year decline in
revenue and an out-of-court restructuring failed, according to
court papers. Lee, based in Davenport,  Iowa , listed $1.2 billion
in assets and $1.3 billion in debt.  Lee has “overwhelming support” from its creditors and
didn’t receive any votes rejecting the proposal to restructure
about $1 billion in debt maturing in April 2012, Bojan Guzina, a
lawyer for the company, told Gross at the hearing.  “It’s remarkable,” Gross said, “I know how hard everyone
had to work to get that result.”  Convert Claims  Under the reorganization plan, lenders, owed about $855.8
million, can convert all or a portion of their claims to get a
share of a new $175 million second-lien facility and 15 percent
of the reorganized company’s equity. The remainder of the
lenders’ debt would be converted into a new $689.5 million
secured  term loan . The loans would mature in 2015.  Some of the lenders, including Goldman Sachs Lending
Partners LLC, Mutual Quest Fund, Monarch Master Funding Ltd.,
Mudrick Distressed Opportunity Fund Global LP and Blackwell
Partners LLC, already agreed to acquire as much as $166.3
million of the second-lien loan.  The holders of about $127.6 million of so-called Pulitzer
notes will get new notes with maturity extended to 2015,
according to the restructuring proposal. The company estimates
that the notes will total about $126.4 million when issued.  The $40 million in bankruptcy financing would be converted
into a revolving exit facility under the plan.  Equity holders won’t be wiped out, a typical outcome in
most bankruptcies, and will retain their interests in the
company, court paper show. Unsecured creditors will be
unaffected by the restructuring as well.  Lee, founded in 1890, has a daily circulation of about 1.3
million, according to court documents. The company generated
$756.1 million in operating revenue and reported an operating
loss of $103.3 million for the year ended Sept. 25.  The case is In re  Lee Enterprises Inc. (LEE) , 11-13918,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 