-- 
Presidential $1 Coin Production Will Be Limited by U.S. Mint to Save Money

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-13T19:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/presidential-1-coin-production-will-be-limited-by-u-s-mint-to-save-money.html
The  U.S. Mint , in a money-saving
move, will stop making presidential $1 coins for general use and
will produce only enough to meet demand from collectors.  That’s bad news for fans of  Chester Alan Arthur , Grover Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison, who are to be featured on the
coins made in 2012. Since 2007, the mint has worked its way from
 George Washington  to James Garfield in a set of coins honoring
U.S. presidents.  “The call for Chester A. Arthur coins is not big,” Vice
President  Joe Biden  said at a Cabinet meeting today where the
cutback was announced.  Because people aren’t using them, more than 40 percent of
the presidential dollars made so far have been returned to the
 Federal Reserve , giving it a stockpile of 1.4 billion excess
coins, according to a White House statement.  “We simply shouldn’t be wasting taxpayer money on money
that taxpayers aren’t using,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a statement.  The plan to cut back on the coins was announced at a
Cabinet meeting led by Biden to highlight Obama administration
efforts to trim wasteful  government spending . Making
presidential coins only for sale to collectors will save at
least $50 million a year in production and storage costs, the
White House statement said.  Intent on Change  “We are intent on changing the way the government does
business,” Biden said at today’s Cabinet meeting.  Biden said he wants a progress report in March on progress
in meeting a presidential order last month to cut about $4
billion a year from spending on travel, mobile phones, laptops,
printing costs and other areas.  Biden said the  Justice Department  recovered $5.6 billion in
fiscal 2011 from civil and criminal fraud cases.  Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said the department’s
work included health-care, mortgage and procurement fraud. Cole
cited a move to recover $61 million in settlements with
producers of defective bulletproof vests.  Federal spending is under scrutiny in Congress, and
President Barack Obama has ordered Cabinet officials to take
steps to reduce some of the $110 billion in improper or
erroneous payments made by the government last year.  Under a 2005 law, the mint has turned out four new
presidential dollars a year.  Cleveland , the only person to serve
non-consecutive terms as chief executive, is slated to get two
coins next year as both the 22nd and 24th president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  