-- 
Putin Pushes Russian Banks, Puts Western Firms on Notice

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-12-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/putin-pushing-russian-banks-points-two-tanks-at-western-firms.html
Russia’s government is tightening
its grip on capital markets by expanding the investment-banking
arms of two state-run lenders at the expense of Western firms.  OAO Sberbank , Europe’s third-largest bank by market value,
and  VTB Group , Russia’s second-biggest, are boosting their
corporate and brokerage businesses as foreign lenders, including
Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Paris-based  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
retrench and pull cash from the region amid a spreading debt
crisis in their home markets.  “The Kremlin has driven out some of the biggest Western 
retail banks and now has two tanks on the investment-banking 
lawn,” said  Eric Kraus , an independent asset manager in Moscow 
who previously worked as a strategist for Otkritie Financial 
Corp., a brokerage partly owned by VTB. “Sberbank’s arrival will 
make the competition nervous because VTB’s investment bank 
almost destroyed Deutsche Bank in Russia.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , both based in  London ,
are among Western lenders that have abandoned retail operations
in Russia as state banks increase market share. Now the
competition is shifting to investment banking, which foreign
firms have dominated since the collapse of the Soviet Union.  The Kremlin is building its own champions to prevent a
repeat of 2008, when foreign banks cut credit lines to Russian
issuers after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and a 5-day war with Georgia, said  Liam Halligan , chief
economist at Prosperity Capital Management in Moscow, a Russia-
focused fund with about $5 billion under management.  Troika Dialog   Sberbank, the former Soviet savings bank with 20,000
branches and about 240,000 employees, said it will complete its
acquisition of brokerage Troika Dialog by mid-February, while
VTB this year bought  Bank of Moscow  and  OAO TransCreditBank . The
deals give state-owned banks, which control 65 percent of retail
deposits, more than 60 percent of the domestic bond-underwriting
business, up from 34 percent last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  VTB Capital, the lender’s investment-banking unit, has 12.8
percent of the combined domestic and foreign debt-underwriting
market so far this year, followed by state-controlled
Gazprombank with 6.8 percent, Sberbank with 6.6 percent and
Troika with 5.8 percent, Bloomberg data show. VTB Capital was
also first in equity sales, with a 29 percent market share,
including the government’s sale of 10 percent of VTB Group for
$3.3 billion in February.  Deutsche Bank AG , based in Frankfurt,
was second with 17 percent, followed by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  at
11 percent.  Russian ‘Champion’  The emergence of VTB Capital and Sberbank has meant
declining market shares for Western firms. Deutsche Bank went
from leader in combined Russian equity and debt sales in 2007 to
No. 8 last year, Bloomberg data show.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in
 New York , and Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , second and
third that year, slipped to third and seventh in 2010.  The only way deals can get done now is by inviting VTB
Capital onto mandates, said three bankers in Moscow who asked
not to be identified to avoid jeopardizing their firms.  “We are the Russian investment-banking champion, and we
have the goal to be recognized as the global emerging-market
investment bank,” Atanas Bostandjiev, hired from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in May to lead VTB’s push outside of Russia, said
during an October interview in Moscow at the bank’s annual
investment conference, which Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
attended. “Ultimately, we’ll be competing for clients with
global players like Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and Barclays.”  VTB Capital  VTB Capital was created in 2008 by VTB Group Chief
Executive Officer Andrey Kostin, 55, who pledged to invest $500
million in the unit, including hiring people from Deutsche Bank
and other international firms. Within two years, the brokerage
became the biggest organizer of Russian equity sales and the
first domestic company in the post-Soviet era to underwrite the
most Russian bond sales.  Yuri Soloviev, Kostin’s deputy and Deutsche Bank’s former
No. 2 in Russia, said Moscow-based VTB, which is 75 percent
owned by the government, is using its leading position in the
country as a platform for expansion to “capitalize on the
problems of the global banks.” VTB Capital Inc., the company’s
New York unit, has 10 employees and a license to trade in the
U.S., Soloviev, 41, said in an interview. The bank also has
offices in London, Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai.  “We have seen how the global banks are cutting their
presence in many countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania and
Turkey, and I’m certain some will exit Russia,” he said. “This
creates an opportunity and an empty space we’d like to fill.”  Emulating Deutsche Bank  VTB, known as Vneshtorgbank when it handled trade for the
Soviet Union, will boost its international workforce by 25
percent over the next 12 to 18 months, said Bostandjiev, 36,
who’s based in London. It also plans to open offices in Turkey
and Bulgaria to compete in emerging markets with  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank and other Western firms, he said.  “VTB Capital wants to emulate Deutsche Bank and become a
successful international investment bank,”  Clemens Grafe , chief
economist for Goldman Sachs in Moscow, said in a telephone
interview. “But there is no precedent for a state-controlled
bank to do so. Deutsche is the German champion and became an
international player, but it’s not controlled by the state.”  Deutsche Bank, which has lost 100 bankers and market share
to VTB Capital, sees room for competition in a market with
almost $1 billion a year in fees.  ‘Not Afraid’  “Sberbank will compete with everyone in investment
banking, and they will try to use their lending muscles to force
clients to give them mandates, but we are not afraid of them,”
Igor Lojevsky, Deutsche Bank’s Russia chief, said in an
interview in Moscow. “At some point, it will turn out that only
desperate clients will work with them, but there will still be a
place for us where you need quality.”  Lojevsky, 54, who plans to step down next year, said there
are enough internal transactions that don’t require “true M&A
skills” that can be given to Sberbank so they can become No. 1.  Sberbank will compete with VTB for investment-banking
mandates or work with its Russian rival, depending on “what’s
most lucrative” for the bank, Deputy CEO Bella Zlatkis said in
a Nov. 30 interview in London.  Sberbank plans to hire as many as 40 bankers over the next
12 to 14 months, adding to the 100 it already employs, Todd Berman, co-head of investment banking at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, said in an interview.  ‘Colossal Capabilities’  Sberbank, founded 170 years ago, accounts for 48 percent of
the nation’s retail deposits, 32 percent of consumer loans and
31 percent of corporate loans. The Moscow-based bank has a
client base that includes 78 percent of Russia’s largest
companies and 60 percent of mid-size firms, which can be tapped
for investment-banking business, Andrey Donskikh, a deputy CEO,
said in a May issue of Troika Dialog’s in-house magazine.  “Sberbank has colossal capabilities for financing
investment-banking deals,” he said at the time. “With
Sberbank’s participation, Troika’s opportunities are
significantly multiplied.”  OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s largest wireless operator,
has had a 100 billion ruble ($3.15 billion) credit line with the
bank since 2010 and expects to be offered a broader array of
services following the Troika integration, said Joshua Tulgan,
MTS’s director of investor relations and corporate finance.  “We like to get the lowest rates possible for financing,
so it’s better for Russian issuers that Sberbank and Russian
banks become more sophisticated,” Tulgan said in a telephone
interview.  Sberbank and VTB Capital may struggle to emerge as advisers
on mergers-and-acquisition deals because they don’t have
experience, “although nobody thought VTB could do Eurobonds, so
don’t put it past them,” he said.  Low Fees  Kraus, the asset manager, said the government-run banks are
gaining market share by keeping fees low.  “The state banks are driving out the foreign players,” he
said. “They don’t have to make money on every deal.”  Sberbank and VTB are also squeezing Renaissance Capital, a
Moscow-based investment bank half-owned by Russian billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov , who owns the New Jersey Nets basketball team
and announced on Dec. 12 that he plans to challenge Putin for
the presidency in March elections. VTB overtook Renaissance last
year as the top underwriter of equity sales in Russia.  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, all based in New York,
rounded out the top five.  “Investment banking doesn’t come naturally to state
institutions,” said Renaissance founder Stephen Jennings.  Nicholas Jordan, head of UBS AG’s Russia unit, declined to
comment about the state-owned banks winning market share, as did
spokesmen for Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse.  ‘Cherry-Picking’  “The international banks were cherry-picking the larger
deals with higher margins,” said Troika’s Berman, 47. “They
won’t be able to do that going forward. They will still be in
those deals, but now you have domestic banks that have the full
product capability and can back it up with capital.”  Sberbank’s $1 billion acquisition of Troika will make the
bank the leading underwriter of Russian domestic debt, with a
combined market share of 21.1 percent based on their performance
so far this year, putting it ahead of VTB with 15.1 percent.  German Gref, 47, Sberbank’s CEO and a former Putin economy
minister, said when the deal was announced in March that the
takeover could make Troika “No. 1 or No. 2” for M&A in Russia,
dislodging HSBC and Morgan Stanley. Sberbank ranks 32nd in M&A
this year and Troika Dialog doesn’t rate, according to Bloomberg
data. VTB is 29th.  Credit Squeeze  Sberbank also is buying Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG’s
Eastern European unit, excluding its Romanian business, for 585
million euros ($763 million) to 645 million euros, depending on
the company’s performance. Volksbanken, which operates in the
Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and most of the former
Yugoslavia, gives Troika bankers a presence in eight countries,
according to Berman.  Putin, 59, who aims to return to the Kremlin next year as
president, has sought to staunch capital flight that may reach
$70 billion this year, almost twice an earlier forecast,
according to the central bank. Bank Rossii is “very concerned”
about capital outflows that hit $64 billion in the first 10
months, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said on Nov. 18.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said on Nov. 9 that Russia may face a credit squeeze as
Western European banks mired in the euro-area debt crisis
withdraw liquidity from the region.  UniCredit, Citigroup  Russian units of foreign banks, including Milan-based
UniCredit, have started lending excess cash to their parents
since the middle of the year, using “central bank liquidity”
and funds from their Russian operations, Deputy Economy Minister
Andrei Klepach said Oct. 27.  The central bank has been monitoring foreign lenders’
subsidiaries since a credit squeeze that began in late 2008,
Alexander Vinogradov, an official at the central bank’s
regulatory and oversight department, told reporters Nov. 25.
Societe Generale’s  OAO Rosbank  unit, UniCredit, Vienna-based
Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Citigroup are among the
biggest foreign lenders with local subsidiaries.  “Our policy on the placement of temporarily free funds is
in strict accordance with the regulator, and no questions have
been put to us about it,” UniCredit Russia said in an e-mailed
statement on Nov. 29. “We have also not received any informal
guidance.”  Officials at Rosbank and Raiffeisenbank ZAO in Moscow
didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comment. Amit Sah, Citigroup’s
head of consumer banking in Russia, said on Dec. 1 that the
lender didn’t have any funding pressure from its parent.  ‘Hand-Brake Turn’  Foreign banks “facilitated” capital flight after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers brought interbank lending to a halt
around the world, Putin has said. At least 10 of Russia’s 25
wealthiest businessmen faced margin calls from lenders in the
final quarter of 2008 as the country’s worst financial crisis
since 1998 wiped $230 billion from the value of their equity,
according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank and Bloomberg.  “There was surprise and shock when Western banks decided
to go from lending money to anyone to refusing to roll over
loans from one month to the next,” Prosperity Capital’s
Halligan said in an interview. “This hand-brake turn shocked
people in the Russian administration who decided they needed to
find long-term financing solutions.”  Capital Flight  Renaissance Capital’s Jennings also questioned the
commitment of Western banks.  “What does it mean for building domestic banking systems
and capital markets if every time there’s a shock and this
happens?” Jennings said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook for Russia’s
banking system to negative on Oct. 24, citing continued capital
flight and reduced access to wholesale funding. Capital flight
from Russia, ranked the world’s most corrupt major economy in
Transparency International’s  2010 index , may reach $85 billion
this year up from a previous forecast of $36 billion, Acting
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Dec. 5.  The outflow likely will continue after Putin’s ruling party
suffered its biggest setback since he came power a decade ago in
elections for the State Duma earlier this month, Elina Ribakova
and  Natalia Novikova , analysts at Citigroup in Moscow, wrote in
a Dec. 8 report. Thousands of people took to the streets last
week to protest the vote, which was marred by complaints of
ballot-stuffing, sending Russian stocks and the ruble tumbling.
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said on Dec. 12 that the allegations
of electoral fraud should be investigated.  Ackermann, Dimon  The rise of Russia’s state-owned investment banks comes at
the same time the government is courting heads of Western firms
to advise it on developing Moscow as a global financial center.
Josef Ackermann and Jamie Dimon, the heads of Deutsche Bank and
JPMorgan, were among those who attended a meeting at the Moscow
headquarters of Sberbank in October along with Medvedev and top
executives of Russia’s biggest banks. Goldman Sachs CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  joined by phone.  Some Western lenders are curtailing operations in Russia.
Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest lender, in October sold the
retail unit it bought for $745 million in 2008. HSBC, Europe’s
biggest bank, sold part of its consumer business in the country
to Citigroup after quitting retail and private banking to focus
on corporate clients. Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Morgan Stanley
and Sweden’s Swedbank AB are among other firms that have ended
or reduced Russian retail-banking operations since 2010.  Citigroup started cutting investment-banking jobs in Moscow
on Dec. 13 as “part of ongoing efforts to control expenses,”
Denis Denisov, a company spokesman, said in a Dec. 12 e-mail.  Asset Sales  The government is auctioning assets valued at about 1
trillion rubles. The central bank picked Troika Dialog, Goldman
Sachs, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse on June 14 to manage the sale
of 7.6 percent of Sberbank. The four are also among 23 advisers
for the planned sale of state assets, which has been stalled by
the global economic slowdown.  The government expects to cut its holding in Sberbank to
less than 50 percent by 2014, while still retaining a
controlling stake, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov 
said in October 2010. It intends to sell more shares in VTB,
possibly reducing its holding in the lender to less than 50
percent within three years, he said.  Sberbank, 60 percent owned by the government, and VTB
complained to Shuvalov in October that foreign banks were
getting most of the mandates to sell shares in the privatization
program, Russian newspaper Kommersant reported. Strong domestic
investment banks will better represent the state’s interest in
such sales, Sberbank’s Gref and VTB’s Kostin told Shuvalov in a
letter cited by Kommersant.  ‘Special Mission’  VTB, like other state-run banks, has a “special mission”
to provide financing for projects that private lenders shun,
Putin  told  Kostin in 2010, according to a transcript of a
conversation posted on a government website. “Real banks today
have to be equipped for investment banking.”  In the 1990s, Putin built  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and  OAO Gazprom , the
country’s largest oil producer and its natural gas export
monopoly, into national energy champions. Rosneft controls most
of the former assets of Yukos Oil Co., once Russia’s biggest oil
company, which was declared bankrupt and sold in pieces after
facing $30 billion of tax claims during Putin’s presidency.
Former Yukos owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was convicted of fraud
in 2005 and oil embezzlement in December 2010, pushing his
prison sentence to 13 years.  ‘Extraordinary Returns’  Troika Dialog’s Berman, who was hired from Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America in September, said that working
closely with the government was good for business.  “It’s not a question of having a state mission,” he said.
“It’s a question of how we generate extraordinary returns. If
there are smart deals that the government suggests are good for
the economy and they make money for us, that’s terrific.”  Sberbank and VTB will compete for the state-bank role on
deals, said Neil Withers, a former head of investor relations at
VTB and now vice chairman of Silk Route Financial, a merchant
bank in Moscow.  “Deutsche, UBS and Citigroup will now have to think about
inviting Sberbank onto deals, whereas before it was VTB,”
Withers said in a phone interview.  Getting a cut of government deals won’t vault Sberbank and
VTB into the top tier of investment banks, said  Roland Nash ,
chief investment strategist at Moscow-based hedge fund Verno
Capital, which manages more than $150 million in Russia.  “Russia’s national banking champions want to become
international champions, but they won’t be able to compete with
the Anglo-Saxon model,” said Nash, a former global strategist
at Renaissance Capital. “They will have to focus their
activities on China, India, Brazil and Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  