-- 
Qatar’s Shares Retreat Most in Three Week as Europe Rating-Cut Concerns

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-12-13T14:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/qatar-s-shares-retreat-most-in-a-week-as-europe-rating-cut-concerns.html
Qatar’s benchmark stock index
declined the most in more than three weeks as emerging-market
stocks fell after  Fitch Ratings  joined Moody’s Investors Service
in warning that Europe faces lower credit ratings.  Industries Qatar QSC (IQCD) , the Middle East’s second-biggest
petrochemicals company, dropped to the lowest level this month.
 Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL) , the country’s biggest company by revenue,
retreated a second time this week. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  dropped 0.4
percent, the most since Nov. 21, to 8,763.78 at the 1 p.m. close
in Doha. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  sank 1.3
percent, the steepest drop since Oct. 3, as trading volumes
climbed to the highest since March.  Fitch and Moody’s said yesterday that a European Union
summit last week offered little help in ending the region’s debt
crisis. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 1.3 percent
yesterday, the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped today to the
lowest this month and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell as
much as 1.1 percent.  Gulf Cooperation Council “markets are trading on a
negative note, tracking international sentiment,” said Samer Darwiche, an analyst at Gulfmena Investments in Dubai. Moody’s
comments that the European summit “failed to produce decisive
measures” is affecting sentiment, he said.  Industries Qatar slid 1 percent to 133.60 riyals.  Qatar
Telecom  dropped 1.3 percent to 150 riyals.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.3 percent. Oman’s
 MSM30 Index (MSM30)  declined 0.2 percent, snapping its longest winning
streak since March last year. Bahrain’s measure was little
changed and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  fell 0.5 percent.
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.4 percent and Kuwait’s
 gauge (KWSEIDX)  strengthened 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  