-- 
Republicans May Be Trampled by Bull Moose Revival: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-12-13T01:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/republicans-may-be-trampled-by-bull-moose-revival-ron-klain.html
Last week, President Barack Obama
gave a speech whose location, tone and language consciously
evoked an address by  Theodore Roosevelt  at the outset of the
1912 presidential campaign. The deliberate historical echo,
however, raised an intriguing question: Will Obama’s 2012 effort
bear a closer resemblance to the one waged by  Woodrow Wilson ,
Roosevelt’s opponent, than to the race run by TR himself?  Observers have noted the many similarities between Obama
and Wilson. Both were scholarly, brilliant, and accomplished
authors before becoming president. Both drew political strength
from their gifts as speakers, and relied far less on
conventional political attributes, such as an aptitude for
backslapping and schmoozing. Both came from the reformist wing
of their party, with little support from the insiders.  But the most intriguing similarity has only begun to take
shape in recent weeks: Like Wilson in 1912, Obama may face a
 Republican Party  that is unable to unite behind a single choice
and whose voters would have to choose between two candidates on
the ballot in the fall.  In 1912, conservative Republicans refused to support the
nomination of the party’s most popular figure -- former
President Teddy Roosevelt -- and instead backed the preferred
candidate of the right wing: incumbent President  William Howard Taft . Roosevelt then ran as a third-party candidate, divided the
Republican vote with Taft, and Wilson, the Democratic nominee,
won an Electoral College landslide.  Could a similar scenario unfold next year?  Third-Party Legacy  Impactful -- and even decisive -- third-party campaigns are
more common than we usually appreciate. In the last eight
presidential elections, a significant outside candidate has been
on the ballot four times ( John Anderson  in 1980; Ross Perot in
1992 and 1996; and  Ralph Nader  in 2000), and there is a serious
argument that the outcomes of two of these four races (1992 and
2000) would have been different if that insurgent hadn’t run.  Recent developments in the Republican contest have
substantially raised the likelihood of a noteworthy third-party
candidacy in this election.  First, the collapse of the  Rick Perry ,  Michele Bachmann ,
and Herman Cain boomlets, and the coalescence of conservatives
behind  Newt Gingrich , have created the architecture for an
ideologically driven, one-on-one contest between the former
House speaker and  Mitt Romney  that is likely to be especially
divisive.  The 2008 Democratic primary provides a useful contrast.
While the race between  Hillary Clinton  and Obama was long, close
and hard fought, the differences between the two candidates were
mostly of leadership style and generational tone. The choice for
voters was between a “restoration” of the Clinton White House
and a changing of the guard. Those aren’t the sort of
differences that drive the supporters of the defeated primary
candidate to bolt their party.  The sharply contrasting ideological divide between Gingrich
and Romney may be another story. It could lead the loser’s
backers to seek an alternative in the fall. On the conservative
side, it’s clear that a substantial number of Republicans find
Romney unacceptable because of his Massachusetts health-coverage
plan that strongly resembled Obama’s law; his (at least
previously) moderate positions on social issues; and the sense
that he has flip-flopped on core conservative values. In
addition, Romney’s Wall Street ties and establishment roots make
him particularly unacceptable to an important subset of
conservatives: the populists of the  Tea Party .  ‘Buyers’ Remorse’  Romney’s inability to crack 30 percent in polls of
Republican primary voters isn’t merely the traditional “buyers’
remorse” that plagues all front-runners in the nominating
process. He is facing an entrenched, hardening resistance by
conservatives.  Conversely, the emergence of the highly polarizing,
bombastic Gingrich as the leading conservative candidate makes
it less likely that the party’s moderates will fall into line.
These Republicans might be able to accept another conservative
favorite -- Perry, for example -- as their choice, but not
Gingrich.  Second, the new Republican nomination rules in place this
year increase the chances of a protracted contest. In the 2008
race,  John McCain  was able to lock up the nomination early by
sweeping large, winner-take-all primaries. But this time, the
party has adopted a “proportional representation” system that
Democrats have used in the past. These rules allow the losing
candidates to continue to build delegate totals, which
encourages them to stay in the race to the very end.  Put these two factors together, and you have the makings of
a long, divisive, ideological primary that may result in a
conflagration when the losing faction starts to ponder a third-
party challenge to the winner.  This isn’t to say that either Gingrich or Romney would run
as third-party candidates: Neither is likely to want to be
saddled with the “sore loser” epithet that would accompany
such a choice. But if Romney wins the Republican nomination,
would  Ron Paul  -- who expressly refused to rule out the third-
party path on “Meet the Press” last week -- run as a Tea Party
alternative to the establishmentarian candidate? If Gingrich
wins the nod, would  Jon Huntsman  -- who broke with his party
once to serve in the Obama administration -- emerge as a
moderate alternative? Neither possibility is far-fetched.  This is all the more plausible as the 2012 race will
feature a path to national ballot access for a third-party
candidate that hasn’t existed previously.  Historically, one of the major obstacles to such
candidacies was the difficulty of gaining access to the ballot
in enough states to mount a truly national campaign. Until now,
there have been only two ways to overcome this formidable
hurdle: the mobilization of many passionate, grassroots
volunteers ( John Anderson , Ralph Nader), or a personal fortune
to underwrite an army of paid signature collectors ( Ross Perot ).  Americans Elect  In 2012, there also will be a third path: the online
campaign known as  Americans Elect , which has already collected
more than 2 million signatures to put “Candidate TBD” on the
ballot next year. The group is running an online nominating
process -- culminating in an online convention in June -- that
will hand a ballot slot in all (or at least most) of the 50
states to whoever can get his supporters to log the most clicks.  If Gingrich wins the Republican nomination, would Americans
Elect become a vehicle for a moderate Republican to seek a
third-party line in 2012? Almost certainly. If Romney wins,
would the Tea Party forces put their manpower into winning the
Americans Elect line for one of their own? No doubt.  Americans Elect, then, is the equivalent of Chekhov’s gun:
We caught a glimpse of it on stage in the first act, so it
almost certainly will go off -- with story-changing consequences
-- before the end of the play.  With 11 months until Election Day, anything can happen, of
course. But Gingrich’s rise as a consolidator of conservative
resistance to Romney; the former House speaker’s lack of appeal
among moderate voters; the rule changes that make a long primary
(and hence a bitter one) more likely; and the presence of a
ready-made launching pad for disgruntled Republicans to offer a
candidate of their choosing all contribute to a particularly
high probability of two Republicans on the ballot.  This state of affairs may be as helpful to Obama as it was
to Wilson in 1912, when he rode Republican discord all the way
to victory.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Ron Klain at
 rklain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  