-- 
Russian Editor Is Fired for Publishing Photo With Obscenity Against Putin

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-13T18:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/russian-billionaire-fires-editor-for-publishing-putin-obscenity.html
Billionaire Alisher Usmanov fired
the editor of a leading Russian weekly magazine for publishing a
photo showing protests over election fraud that contained an
obscenity against Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Maxim Kovalsky, editor of  Kommersant Vlast , was dismissed
because he published a photo containing “indecent language,”
Usmanov’s press service said by e-mail from Moscow today. Andrei
Galiev, general director of the media group that manages the
weekly, ZAO Kommersant Holding, was also fired, it said.  Russia’s third-richest man,  Mikhail Prokhorov , who pledged
to run against Putin for the presidency next March, will offer
to buy the publishing house from Usmanov, Dmitry Razumov, chief
executive officer of the billionaire’s Onexim Group holding
company, said today by phone. Usmanov said through his press
service that he has “no plans to sell” Kommersant.  Tens of thousands of people took to the streets at the
weekend to protest fraud in Dec. 4 parliamentary elections won
by Putin’s United Russia party in the biggest demonstrations
since the Russian leader came to power 12 years ago.  “The Kremlin is very nervous after the mass protests
against ballot-stuffing,” Kovalsky said in a phone interview
today. “They are extending their control over the flow of
information. Before they focused only on mass audience outlets,
television stations. Now it’s reached another level. They are in
a difficult spot.”  ‘Journalistic Ethics’  Usmanov, whose media group also publishes  Kommersant , a
leading Russian daily newspaper that is often critical of the
government, fired the editor and executive because they violated
“journalistic ethics,” he told news website Gazeta.ru. The
billionaire said he may sue the former editor, according to a
transcript of the Gazeta.ru interview forwarded by his press
service.  “As a matter of principle, I maintain non-interference in
the editorial policy of Kommersant publishing house,” Usmanov
said in the statement sent by his press service. “But there are
moral-ethical codes that were violated in this particular case.
The media shouldn’t be a platform for hooliganism.”  The latest edition of Kommersant Vlast, published
yesterday, featured a photo of a ballot cast for the pro-
democracy party Yabloko which had the words “Putin, Go F---
Yourself” scrawled across it.  Putin, 59, decided in September to return to the Kremlin
next year, edging aside President  Dmitry Medvedev , who replaced
him in the Kremlin in 2008 because of a constitutional ban on
three consecutive terms. Putin may remain in power for almost a
quarter-century if he runs again in 2018.  During his time as president that started in 2000, Putin
established state control of nationwide television. Usmanov, a
metals and mining magnate, bought Kommersant in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  