-- 
Russian, Hydro Emission Offsets Face EU Ban, Sindicatum Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 
2011-12-13T16:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/russian-hydro-emission-offsets-face-eu-ban-sindicatum-says.html
Some emission offsets from  Russia ,
as well as those from large hydropower and coal projects, may be
banned by regulators of the European Union carbon market, said
Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group Ltd.  Certain projects approved by nations including Russia and
Ukraine under the Joint Implementation program of the  Kyoto
Protocol  may be sanctioned by the EU under proposals made as
soon as early next year, Gareth Phillips, chief climate change
officer at the Singapore-based developer of carbon offset
credits, said today by phone. Other projects under the Clean
Development Mechanism may also face bans, he said.  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits dropped as much as
9.8 percent today to a record low 4.42 euros ($5.77) a metric
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The European
Union’s administrative arm in Brussels said last month it may
consider proposing a ban on some credits for use in bloc’s
carbon market under a process called comitology. That’s a
procedure where a plan is first discussed by experts from
national governments and if approved, becomes subject to
scrutiny by governments and the European Parliament.  “I want them to do the comitology and get it out of the
way,” Phillips said. Regulators also need to consider
tightening the EU market by temporarily setting aside allowances
or adopting a stricter 2020 target, he said. An EU official in
Brussels didn’t immediately comment.  At last week’s climate talks in Durban,  South Africa  the EU
failed to stop some emission-reduction projects in developing
nations getting United Nations carbon credits. This means
companies will keep investing in greenhouse gas cutting
projects, Sindicatum said Dec. 9.  Durban Attempt  The EU was seeking to prevent projects from securing carbon
credits where those credits make up only a small portion of the
project’s revenue, Phillips said. That may prevent renewable
energy plants such as wind farms and coal stations, as well as
mass transit systems, from winning credits.  The fact that regulators are seeking restrictions may be
helping to prompt this week’s selling, said Tom Greenwood, an
analyst for IdeaCarbon in London, which rates emission-reduction
projects. “It’s uncertainty about eligibility criteria that is
increasing the risk of holding CER futures contracts,” he said
by phone today.  So-called track one projects created under the UN’s Joint
Implementation mechanism are approved for credits by countries,
while UN regulators oversee track two projects.  ‘Almost No Way’  “There is almost no way for the UN to act decisively” to
limit supply under track one, said  Jerome Whitington , a research
fellow at the  National University  of  Singapore . “So it’s up to
the EU to decide if their market will be further undermined,”
Whitington said today by e-mail.  Russia issued 592,000 tons of Emission Reduction Units,
including 234,810 tons to Orbeo, the carbon-trading venture of
Societe Generale SA and  Rhodia SA (SOLB) , the Russian carbon registry
said today.  The Joint Implementation program focuses on Eastern Europe
and Russia and is the second-biggest greenhouse gas offset
program overseen by the UN after the Clean Development
Mechanism, which oversees projects in emerging and developing
nations. Each ERU and CER corresponds to one metric ton of
carbon dioxide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  