-- 
Sandusky’s 5-Minute Hearing in Sex-Abuse Case Draws Crowds, Closes Streets

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T19:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sandusky-s-5-minute-hearing-in-sex-abuse-case-draws-crowds-closes-streets.html
Hundreds of people braved below-
freezing temperatures to witness a pretrial hearing for Jerry Sandusky, the former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant
football coach accused of sexually abusing boys.  Judge Thomas Kistler, the knot of a red, white and blue
necktie poking out from his overcoat, stood at the door to the
Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, today
giving parking information to spectators who had won a lottery
for seats in the courtroom.  More than 1,300 people had vied for 100 public spots, and
the winners were lined up an hour before the 8:30 a.m. session
began. The temperature was about 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7
Celsius). Another 156 seats were set aside for reporters, with
more rooms for the overflow. Megan Salgel, 23, came down from
Penn State, where she is a senior, to watch the hearing.  “I think it’s really unfortunate circumstances,” Salgel
said of the charges against Sandusky, who is accused of
molesting 10 boys and faces more than 40 criminal counts. Salgel
said her father, aunts, uncle and cousins all attended Penn
State, where Sandusky, 67, worked for 30 years.  Joe Salvato, a 21-year-old Penn State junior from  Cherry
Hill ,  New Jersey , said he came “to witness history.”  History lasted about five minutes, at the hearing to
determine whether the case should be held over for trial.  Hearing Waived  Sandusky entered the courtroom with his attorney, Joseph
Amendola, shortly before 8:30. The two men left the room
followed by members of the prosecution team. When they returned,
Amendola spoke to Judge  Robert Scott , who announced that
Sandusky was waiving his right to the hearing.  There were gasps in the courtroom, which quickly emptied.
Reporters were told to remain seated while Sandusky and his
family exited through a door behind the judge’s bench.  The streets around the 19th-century courthouse were
cordoned off last night to accommodate 28 satellite-television
trucks. Orange and black cables crisscrossed the street and
cameras were arranged in a semi-circle on the courthouse lawn,
pointed at a lectern with microphones.  State troopers, local police and sheriff’s deputies
patrolled the streets and operated checkpoints at the
courthouse.  Hundreds of journalists descended on this town of 6,000
people, 10 miles (16 kilometers) from  State College , where Penn
State is located and where Sandusky served as a defensive
assistant under  Joe Paterno , who was fired last month as the
Nittany Lions’ head football coach. Paterno hasn’t been accused
of criminal wrongdoing.  Reporter Credentials  About 200 reporters were given credentials, according to
Jim Koval of the Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts.
He said about 100 more technicians or other journalists showed
up without seeking courtroom or overflow room seats.  On Nov. 5, Sandusky was charged with 40 counts involving
eight boys. He was rearrested last week and charged with more
crimes after two new accusers came forward. The charges include
nine counts of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, each
punishable by as much as 20 years in prison. He pleaded not
guilty today in a waiver of arraignment, according to court
records.  Beginning in November, state and local court, law-
enforcement and emergency officials began planning for the
hearing, according to Maxine Ishler, the Centre County court
administrator. Local judges had recused themselves from the
case. Kistler’s job was to oversee logistics such as parking,
not legal matters, Ishler said.  Confronting Witnesses  The hearing today would have allowed Sandusky and his
lawyer to confront and cross-examine his accusers. Eleven
witnesses were scheduled to testify, Senior Deputy Attorney
General Marc Costanzo told reporters on the courthouse lawn
minutes after the proceeding.  Most of the witnesses were young men, waiting to explain
what Sandusky allegedly did to them when they were enrolled in
Second Mile, the charity for troubled and needy boys Sandusky
founded, according to lawyers in the case.  Prosecutors allege Sandusky used Second Mile to recruit
victims, befriending them and “grooming” them with gifts, trips
to  Penn State  football games and money. The alleged victims
ranged in age from 10 to 15 when the abuse occurred, according
to court documents.  The accusers’ identities wouldn’t be publicly disclosed,
said Ben Andreozzi, who represents a man identified only as
Victim 4 in a grand jury report. His client had become “an
extension of the Sandusky family,” so frequently did Sandusky
take him to games and bring him home for overnight stays,
Andreozzi said.  Shaking Witness  Victim 4, scheduled to go on first, was shaking nervously
as he waited to testify, Andreozzi, said.  “I can’t believe they put us through this until the last
second, only to waive the hearing,” Victim 4 said in a
handwritten statement Andreozzi read to reporters.  “He was ready,” the lawyer said. “He would have been
damaging.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, MJ-
49201-cr-0000636-2011, Magisterial District Court, Centre
County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Woolner  in Bellefonte at 
 awooolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  