-- 
Sappi to Cut Jobs This Month on South African Unit Reforms

-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-12-13T14:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sappi-to-cut-jobs-this-month-on-south-african-unit-reforms.html
Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest
maker of glossy paper, will have “some” job losses this month
and next year in a reorganization of its South African paper and
packaging business, a company executive said.  Claims by the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and
Allied Workers Union that Sappi will cut 1,200 jobs are
premature, said Andre Oberholzer, Sappi’s corporate affairs
manager, confirming comments reported earlier by Business Day.
The number of jobs lost this month will be a “small portion”
of the 172 estimated by the union, Oberholzer said.  “Since 2010 we’ve been restructuring in order to return
the business to acceptable profitability and this is part of
that process,” Oberholzer said. “Those that will be impacted
have been informed, but it’s specific to certain production
processes at certain mills.”  Sappi announced plans over the past year to shut mills in
 South Africa  and  Switzerland , and the Johannesburg-based company
cut about 800 jobs in the nine months through June. Rising costs
and weaker paper sales have also led Helsinki-based competitors
 Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV)  and UPM Kymmene Oyj to close mills.  Sappi’s shares rose for the first time in three days,
climbing 2 percent to 25.70 rand at 4:32 p.m. in Johannesburg.
That pared the stock’s slump this year to 24 percent.  Once Sappi’s reorganization is completed, the changes at
businesses in southern Africa will result in savings of about
250 million rand ($30 million) a year, with an additional
100 million rand a year saved as a result of avoided
maintenance, the company said in October.  Alex Thiel, chief executive officer for southern  Africa ,
will meet with the union tomorrow, Oberholzer said. The company
had more than 15,000 workers at the end of the 2010 fiscal year,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  