-- 
Morgan Stanley, HSBC, AT&T, BNY Mellon, UBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-13T11:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hsbc-mbia-at-t-bny-mellon-deutsche-bank-ubs-in-court-news.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can’t ask a court in
 Singapore  to block shareholders living in that country from
suing over their losses on $154.7 million in synthetic
collateralized debt obligations, a judge in  New York  ruled.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand yesterday granted a
request by a group of investors in the CDOs that he block Morgan
Stanley from trying win an order from the  High Court  of the
Republic of Singapore that would prevent them from pursuing the
suit in New York.  Several Morgan Stanley units created the scheme to redirect
funds into the bank’s own coffers, said investors including the
 Singapore Government Staff Credit Cooperative Society Ltd . in
the complaint.  The investors claim Morgan Stanley didn’t tell them it was
a counter-party to the agreements, meaning that for each dollar
the investors lost, the bank gained a dollar, according to the
complaint filed in October 2010. The plaintiffs seek to
represent a class of all investors who bought the notes from
Aug. 1, 2006, to the end of 2007.  In October, Sand dismissed some of the investors’ claims
and permitted the rest of the case to go forward. One month
later, Morgan Stanley asked the Singapore court for an order
blocking the investors from pursuing the case.  The case is Dandong v. Pinnacle Performance Ltd., 10-
cv-08086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  HSBC Bank USA Pulls Out of MBIA Restructuring Lawsuits  HSBC Bank USA agreed to withdraw from lawsuits challenging
bond insurer  MBIA Inc. ’s restructuring in 2009, becoming the
fifth plaintiff to drop out of the litigation since August.  HSBC’s action against MBIA was discontinued with prejudice,
according to a filing yesterday in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan. No reason was given for the withdrawal. A claim
dismissed with prejudice can’t be re-filed.  KBC Investments Cayman Islands V Ltd. withdrew from the
suits in August, according to court filings. Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank pulled out in September,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  in October and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
November.  Banks including UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. remain
plaintiffs in the suits, according to the filing. The banks said
in the suits, filed in 2009, that Armonk, New York-based MBIA’s
restructuring might make it unable to pay claims.  “The remaining plaintiffs are fully committed to seeing
this litigation through to the end,” Robert J. Giuffra, lead
counsel for the banks and a partner at  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 
in New York, said in a telephone interview.  More banks or other firms disputing MBIA’s restructuring
may drop out of the lawsuits by the end of the year, Jay Brown,
the bond insurer’s chief executive officer, said last month.
Banks have discontinued litigation as MBIA negotiates
settlements over the credit-default swaps it sold to the lenders
to protect against losses on mortgage securities and other debt.  MBIA said Nov. 10 that it had settled $10.6 billion of
transactions since Sept. 30 at an undisclosed cost, bringing the
amount of bets terminated this year to $23 billion.  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for MBIA, declined to comment.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475/2009,
and ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846/2009, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  AT&T Judge Grants Motion Delaying T-Mobile Antitrust Trial  The judge presiding over the U.S. challenge to AT&T Inc.’s
proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. granted a
request by both sides to put the case on hold.  The joint motion, filed yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , asked U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to
“stay” the antitrust case that was scheduled for trial on Feb.
13 and to cancel a hearing scheduled for Dec. 15.  AT&T said that it will file a report Jan. 12 “describing
the status of their proposed transaction, including discussion
of whether they intend to proceed with the transaction at issue
in this litigation, whether they intend to proceed with another
transaction, the status of any related proceedings at the
Federal Communications Commission, and their anticipated plans
and timetable for seeking any necessary approval from the
Federal Communications Commission.”  Gina Talamona, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the filing.  “We are actively considering whether and how to revise our
current transaction to achieve the necessary regulatory
approvals,” Dallas-based AT&T said in an e-mailed statement.  Huvelle scheduled a hearing for Jan. 18.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 1:11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Transocean Says It Doesn’t Owe Fines for Below-Surface Spill  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said it can’t be forced to pay federal
fines or penalties for oil spilled below the surface of the  Gulf
of Mexico  in the Deepwater Horizon incident because of an
indemnity contract with  BP Plc .  Transocean asked a federal judge in New Orleans to find
that the indemnity provision in the drilling contract requires
BP to pay virtually all damages and cleanup costs. BP has argued
that Transocean’s conduct voided the agreement.  The indemnity provision doesn’t cover liabilities that
resulted from willful misconduct, the U.S. Justice Department
said last week in asking the court to delay ruling on the
indemnity provision. Transocean isn’t asking to be held harmless
for such misconduct, the company said in a court filing
yesterday.  “The drilling contract does not provide for indemnity in
the event of intentional or willful misconduct in excess of
gross negligence,” Transocean’s lawyers said. The company’s
claim for indemnity for Clean Water Act fines “arises only if
Transocean is held liable” for “underwater discharge from the
well,” the company said.  Transocean “vehemently denies” it engaged in willful
misconduct in the drilling of BP’s Macondo well, which exploded
off  Louisiana  last year, the rig owner said yesterday. The
blowout killed 11 workers and sparked the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.  More than 350 lawsuits representing thousands of claims by
coastal property owners and businesses for oil-spill damages are
consolidated before Barbier in New Orleans for pretrial
processing. BP and Transocean and other companies involved in
the drilling project face billions of dollars in damages claims
in these suits.  BP sued Transocean in April to recover a part of more than
$40 billion, claiming the drilling contractor shares blame for
the disaster. Transocean filed counterclaims against BP accusing
the oil company of breaching their contract by failing to defend
the rig owner and hold it harmless against all claims.  London-based BP claims Transocean’s conduct voided the
indemnity clause. The oil giant contends the drilling company
must pay its own share of any damages, which will be determined
by a trial set to begin in February.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on Transocean’s filing. Ellen
Moskowitz, a BP spokeswoman, didn’t reply to a voice message or
e-mail seeking comment on the filing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  SEC Asks Court to Compel SIPC to Begin Stanford Liquidation  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked a federal
court in Washington to compel the Securities Investor Protection
Corp. to start a liquidation proceeding for alleged fraud
victims of R. Allen Stanford.  The SEC sued Stanford in 2009, accusing him of leading a $7
billion investment fraud centered on the sale of certificates of
deposit by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. Two
other Stanford businesses were named as defendants. Indicted by
a U.S. grand jury in Houston four months later, the financier
maintains he is innocent.  “The liquidation proceeding would provide customers of the
Stanford brokerage firm a chance to file claims seeking coverage
under a federal law known as the Securities Investor Protection
Act,” the SEC said yesterday in a press statement announcing
the filing of court papers.  That filing couldn’t be independently confirmed.  SIPC’s central aim is to recover investments for customers
of failed brokerages, such as in Bernard Madoff’s multi billion-
dollar  Ponzi scheme  and in the October collapse of  MF Global 
Inc. If that can’t be done, it turns to a fund set up by the
Securities Investor Protection Act that pays out as much as
$500,000 per investor.  “SIPC is going to defend its statutory program,” its
president, Stephen P. Harbeck, said in a telephone interview
responding to the filing. “Congress did not give us the
authority to protect the victims of the Stanford Antigua bank
fraud.”  Harbeck said while the victims of the alleged Ponzi scheme
are “very sympathetic people,” the agency’s mandate is limited
to protecting cash and securities in the possession of a
brokerage firm.  In a separately issued press statement, Harbeck’s agency
called the SEC’s position that it should cover investor losses
on CDs issued by a bank outside the U.S. “unprecedented.”  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington). The 2009 case is Securities
and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International Bank Ltd.,
09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
( Dallas ).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Bank of New York Mellon Sued for Negligence Over Madoff  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was sued on behalf of three
funds for negligence in connection with the Ponzi scheme run by
Bernard L. Madoff.  Bank of New York Mellon and its BNY Alternative Investment
Services unit, which served as administrator, sub-administrator
and custodian of the Rye funds, acted with “gross negligence”
and helped funnel billions of dollars into Madoff’s scheme,
according to a complaint filed in New York State Supreme Court
on Dec. 9.  Bank of New York Mellon and BNY “turned a blind eye to
Madoff’s scam and reaped tens of millions of dollars in fees
from the Rye funds, whose assets were entrusted to the BNY
defendants and ultimately plundered by Madoff,” according to
the complaint, which seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages. Tremont Partners Inc. served as the general partner and
investment manager for the funds.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon in New
York, declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Plaintiffs’ State and Securities Law
Settlement Class Counsel on Behalf of the State Law Subclass and
the Securities Subclass in “In re: Tremont Securities Law,
State Law and Insurance Litigation” v. Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., 653415/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  SEC Sues Glaxo Unit Over Share Buybacks Before Acquisition  Stiefel Laboratories Inc. and its former chairman were sued
by U.S. regulators for buying back stock from employees without
disclosing key information, including its acquisition talks with
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Stiefel Labs, based in Coral Gables,  Florida , and former
chairman Charles Stiefel defrauded shareholders out of more than
$110 million by using low valuations for stock buybacks from
November 2006 to April 2009, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a complaint filed at U.S. District Court in
Florida yesterday.  Stiefel Labs announced in April 2009 that London-based
GlaxoSmithKline would acquire the firm at a price more than 300
percent higher than the per-share price used in buybacks, the
SEC said. The SEC is seeking disgorgement, or repayment, of ill-
gotten gains and unspecified fines, which could potentially
amount to the value of the gains, said Eric Bustillo, head of
the SEC’s regional office in Miami.  “Private companies and their officers must understand that
they are not immune from the federal securities laws, which
protect all shareholders regardless of whether they bought stock
in the open market or earned shares through a company’s stock
plan,” Bustillo said in a statement.  A phone call to Holly Skolnick and David Coulson, Stiefel’s
attorneys at Greenberg Traurig LLP in Miami, wasn’t immediately
returned.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials  Deutsche Bank Risk Chief Says Breuer Didn’t Ask About Loan  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger told a
German court he doesn’t remember discussing the financial
situation at  Leo Kirch ’s media group before February 2002 with
the bank’s then-chief executive  Rolf Breuer .  Banziger, who testified yesterday at Breuer’s trial in
Munich, said Breuer never asked further questions about Kirch’s
situation mentioned in bank memos. While Breuer attended a 2001
meeting where Banziger, chief credit officer at the time, talked
about a loan to Kirch, Banziger said the briefing was mainly for
the supervisory board rather than executives.  “At that time, I rarely talked to Breuer and we mostly
discussed effects of the dot-com bubble,” said Banziger. “I
don’t remember that Kirch was an issue during these
conversations.”  Kirch, who died in July, was once one of  Germany ’s biggest
media tycoons and pursued civil lawsuits against Breuer and
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion).
The lawsuits, which are continuing after Kirch’s death, claim
his company failed after Breuer questioned its creditworthiness
in a 2002 Bloomberg TV interview.  The criminal trial centers on a 2003 appeals court hearing
in one of the Kirch suits where Breuer testified his TV-
interview comments were based on public information, not bank
data. Breuer said he “had never seen the Kirch credit file” at
the bank, nor correspondence with German financial regulators
concerning Kirch, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors charged Breuer with attempted fraud, claiming
he lied to avoid a conviction and that his initials are on a
copy of a regulator’s September 2001 letter asking about risks
of the Kirch loan. They also cite the supervisory board briefing
by Banziger as evidence Breuer knew details about the loan.  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Banker to Argue Unauthorized Trading Encouraged  Sachin Karpe, a desk head at  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management
unit fired for unauthorized trading in 39 client accounts, will
argue the practice was “encouraged” at the bank, a lawyer for
the U.K. finance regulator said.  Karpe and Laila Karan, a former client adviser who Karpe
oversaw on the Asia-2 desk, are challenging the Financial
Services Authority’s attempt to fine them for causing losses of
$42.4 million on 21 client accounts through unauthorized
trading. A lawyer for the FSA said on the first day of a hearing
yesterday that part of Karpe’s defense is that he made foreign
exchange trades with clients’ money to minimize customer losses.  “Karpe seems to be saying three things, that he had his
clients’ implied consent, that the practice was widespread
within UBS, and third, that the practice was encouraged,”
Jonathan Crow, the FSA lawyer, told a tribunal in  London .
“Karpe’s case is simply illogical” and “UBS did not encourage
unauthorized trading.”  The case is an instance of risk-management failures at the
bank, several years before Kweku Adoboli, a former trader in
UBS’s investment bank, was charged with causing $2.3 billion in
losses through unauthorized trading. Adoboli, who was charged
with fraud and false accounting tied to the loss, may enter a
plea at a London criminal court next week.  Karpe’s lawyer, Ian Hargreaves, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Another defendant, Jaspreet Ahuja, has decided to settle
with the FSA, Crow said.  “UBS has already acknowledged that there were weaknesses
in certain aspects of Wealth Management U.K.’s control
environment,” UBS spokesman Oliver Gadney said in a statement.
“UBS supports the action being taken by the FSA” against Karpe
and Karan.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Medtronic (MDT)  to Pay $23.5 Million to Settle False Claims Case  Medtronic Inc., the world’s largest maker of heart rhythm
devices, agreed to pay $23.5 million to resolve allegations that
it paid kickbacks to doctors who implanted its pacemakers and
defibrillators in patients, the U.S. Justice Department said in
a statement.  Medtronic agreed yesterday to settle two lawsuits filed in
federal courts in California and  Minnesota  accusing the company
of violating the federal False Claims Act by paying physicians
$1,000 to $2,000 for each patient who was implanted with one of
the company’s devices, according to the Justice Department.  “Patients who rely on their health-care providers to
implant vital medical devices expect that those decisions will
be made with the patients’ best interests in mind,”  Tony West ,
assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s Civil
Division, said in an e-mailed statement. “Kickbacks, like those
alleged here, distort sound medical judgments with financial
incentives paid for by the taxpayers.”  The lawsuits were filed by whistle-blowers who will receive
more than $3.96 million from the federal recovery.  The company caused false claims to be submitted to Medicare
and Medicaid by using two post-market studies and two device
registries as vehicles to pay participating physicians illegal
kickbacks to induce them to implant its pacemakers and
defibrillators, the Justice Department said in the statement.  Medtronic said in an e-mailed statement that it makes no
admissions that the studies were “improper or unlawful.” The
company also said it established a reserve for the anticipated
payment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011.  “We are happy that the investigation is behind us, so we
can continue designing and executing clinical trials that
generate evidence to improve patient care, outcomes and cost
effectiveness,” Marshall Stanton, vice president of clinical
research and reimbursement for the cardiac and vascular group at
Minneapolis-based Medtronic, said in the statement.  Imperial Tobacco Wins Appeal of $175 Million Price-Fixing Fine  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  won a U.K. lawsuit overturning
112.3 million ($175.7 million) pounds in fines over an alleged
price-fixing cartel for cigarettes with Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
Asda unit and nine other retailers.  The decision yesterday by the  Competition Appeal Tribunal 
in London was a setback for the Office of Fair Trading,
Britain’s antitrust regulator that was forced to abandon some
key claims in the case after expert witnesses weakened its
evidence halfway through a trial last month. The appeal was
filed by Imperial, Asda and four other companies that were fined
about 163 million pounds.  “The OFT’s case was deeply flawed, as it was based on a
misinterpretation of the law and a misunderstanding of the
facts,” Imperial’s lawyer, Euan Burrows of Ashurst LLP, said in
a statement. The company “had always rejected the allegation
that it had acted anti-competitively.”  The seven-year-old case alleges two manufacturers and 10
retailers fixed prices on cigarettes, hand-rolled tobacco, pipe
tobacco and cigars from 2001 to 2003, resulting in fines last
year totaling 225 million pounds.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s
third-largest supermarket chain, was a whistle-blower in the
investigation and provided evidence of the agreements to the
OFT. Half of the companies didn’t appeal.  Kasia Reardon, an OFT spokeswoman, said the agency was
disappointed in the ruling and would comment further after
considering the judgment.  For more, click here.  WGL Unit to Pay $731,000 to Settle Anacostia Pollution Case  A unit of  WGL Holdings Inc. (WGL)  agreed to pay almost $731,000
to settle pollution claims brought by the U.S. and the District
of Columbia over the discharge of hazardous materials along the
Anacostia River in Washington.  Washington Gas Light Co. will also “excavate and remove”
portions of the riverbank containing contaminated soil stemming
from the company’s gas plant, which operated for almost 100
years in the area, the U.S. Interior Department said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. The U.S. announced the settlement
shortly after it sued the company in federal court in
Washington.  “This settlement is a major step forward in restoring this
vibrant river, increasing public access, protecting habitat and
wildlife, and educating and employing our youth,” Interior
Secretary Ken Salazar said in the statement.  The company made gas on the land from 1888 until the
mid-1980s, according to the Interior Department statement.
Byproducts and waste from the gasification process created
hazardous contaminants, including benzene, arsenic, heavy
metals, tar, oil, coal, lampblack and coke.  “For decades Washington Gas has voluntarily conducted
mitigation actions on the site,” Eric Grant, vice president of
corporate relations for Washington Gas, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are glad that the government has entered an
agreement for Washington Gas to move forward with the work it
has always been prepared to do.”  The case is U.S. v. Washington Gas Light Co., 11-02199,
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  N.J. Attorney General Dow Will Leave Post for  Port Authority   New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie said he asked Attorney
General Paula Dow to step down to take a temporary regulatory
role at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which he
accused of “gross mismanagement.”  Christie said Dow will be first deputy general counsel at
the agency, which operates the George Washington Bridge and
other Hudson River crossings between New Jersey and New York.
She will be replaced by chief counsel Jeff Chiesa, Christie, 49,
told reporters yesterday during a press conference in Trenton.  The  Port Authority , and its former Executive Director Chris
Ward, have come under criticism by Christie and New York
Governor Andrew Cuomo for spending on overtime and rebuilding of
the World Trade Center site. The governors ordered a $2 million
independent audit of the agency, which in September raised
bridge and tunnel tolls by 56 percent over five years.  The governor said he also will nominate Dow to be an Essex
County Superior Court judge after she finishes at the Port
Authority. Christie said the nomination is a “peace offering”
to Essex County lawmakers who have held up his appointees from
that region.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 