-- 
Scene Last Night: Glenn Dubin, John Griffin, Louis Bacon, Paul Tudor Jones

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-12-13T15:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/scene-last-night-glenn-dubin-john-griffin-paul-tudor-jones.html
Glenn Dubin  of Highbridge Capital
Management LLC was delayed overseeing homework, said his wife,
Dr. Eva Andersson-Dubin, an internist at NBC, as she greeted
guests last night to the inaugural Dubin Breast Center benefit.  The former model, a tall Swedish blonde, wore a body-
clinging white knit dress and sparkling shoes.  “Excuse me, are you trying to make me feel ugly and
short?” said Nina Wexler, a  breast cancer  survivor who knits
cashmere fingerless  gloves  to raise money for breast-cancer
research. One in eight women are diagnosed with breast cancer.  Andersson-Dubin is a survivor too. Eight years ago, after
her diagnosis, she decided to create a treatment center “that
gives the best possible care and makes the patient feel
special.”  So the Dubins donated $16 million to found the Dubin Breast
Center of the Tisch Cancer Institute at Mount Sinai Medical
Center, where Glenn Dubin is a trustee. The 15,000-square-foot
facility has seen 10,000 patients since it opened on April 6,
2011.  “It’s really my husband who taught me” about
philanthropy, Andersson-Dubin said of her partner, the hedge-
fund manager who helped start the  Robin Hood Foundation .  Massage and Snacks  As many who gathered last night at the Mandarin Oriental
attested, Andersson-Dubin has been hands-on at the center, from
developing its one-stop service to boutique-like touches
offering massage and healthful snacks.  “We’d be in meetings, and Eva would say, ‘We have to have
big bowls of fresh fruit and herbal teas,’ said the co-director
of the center, Dr. Elisa Port. “I’d say, ‘And coffee,’ and she’d
brush it off. Finally, I told her, ‘We keep people here all
day,’ and she caved. We got a gourmet cappuccino maker.”  Now the Dubins are working to build a donor base. The event
last night raised $1.5 million and drew 400 guests including
Tudor Investment’s  Paul Tudor Jones , Blue Ridge Capital’s John Griffin, Fortress Investment’s Michael Novogratz, SAB Capital’s
Scott Bommer,  Moore Capital ’s Louis Bacon and Blackstone
Alternative Asset Management’s Richard Salomon.  Jones’s daughter, Caroline Jones, 21, performed. She is a
singer-songwriter whom Tommy Mottola, a former  Sony Corp. (6758)  music
executive, took to Nashville to meet producers, he said. This
semester she has been touring boarding schools -- Hotchkiss,
Choate, Rye Country Day -- to pass on inspiration to young
students, she said.  ‘Stand by Me’  At the benefit she performed her own song, “Love You
Better,” as well as “Stand By Me,” joined by violinist
Charlie Siem and R&B belter Charles Perry.  Glenn Dubin, who arrived at the benefit with plenty of time
for cocktails and dinner -- roasted free-range chicken in a
garlic and coconut broth -- insisted that the spotlight remain
on his wife.  “Eva is the face of the Dubin Breast Center and the voice
of the Dubin Breast Center,” her husband said, with his wife by
his side. “It’s like you said to me, ‘There must be a reason
why I was one of the eight.’”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 