-- 
Seattle Genetics’ Adcetris Well Tolerated With Other Drugs

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-13T21:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/seattle-genetics-adcetris-is-well-tolerated-in-drug-combination.html
Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN) ’s newly
approved cancer medicine Adcetris was well tolerated when
combined with more established medicines, the company said,
potentially positioning the drug for wider clearance.  None of the 19 patients in one segment of the clinical
trial experienced lung damage, an issue that led Seattle
Genetics to halt an earlier test, the Bothell, Washington-based
company said today. The results were released at the American
Society of Hematology meeting in  San Diego .  “We have an awesome opportunity to redefine front line
therapy,” Clay Siegall, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of Seattle Genetics said in an interview at the
conference today.  Adcetris was approved in August for patients with Hodgkin
lymphoma for whom other therapies have failed, the first new
medicine cleared by U.S. regulators for the disease since 1977.
Seattle Genetics reported sales of $10 million from the
medicine’s first six weeks on the market.  The trial, the first of three typically required for
regulatory approval, tested Adcetris in newly diagnosed
patients. The drug was combined with a chemotherapy regimen
containing adriamycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine, a standard
treatment called AVD.  “Becoming part of first-line treatment would significantly
increase the target population by a factor of four to five,”
said  Jason Kantor , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco , in an interview. “Most doctors we talk to believe
Adcetris will ultimately become part of standard of care.”  Earlier Results  In November, the drugmaker discontinued part of the study
testing Adcetris with the other medicines and the antibiotic
bleomycin, after patients experienced significant complications,
prompting shares to drop the most in nine years.  Patients in both groups experienced side effects, including
nausea, fatigue, vomiting and neutropenia, a blood condition in
which chemotherapy patients suffer from a drop in white blood
cells and are at risk for infections.  Hodgkin lymphoma , a cancer of the immune system, will be
diagnosed in an estimated 8,830 U.S. patients this year, killing
about 1,300, according to the National Cancer Institute.  Seattle Genetics said it will conduct a Phase 3 clinical
trial comparing how Adcetris and AVD work in newly diagnosed
patients with patients taking AVD and bleomycin. The company is
developing the drug with the Millennium unit of Osaka, Japan-
based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker.  Seattle Genetics fell less than 1 percent to $17.02 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  