-- 
SEC Sues Security Investor Protection Corp. Over Stanford Claims

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T05:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sec-sues-security-investor-protection-corp-over-stanford-claims.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued the federal Securities Investor Protection
Corp., seeking an order forcing it to create a claims process
for R. Allen Stanford’s alleged investment fraud victims.  The SEC, in papers filed yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , said it had determined in June that thousands of
those alleged victims may be entitled to SIPC coverage and that
the agency’s unwillingness to act compelled the commission to
sue. The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed with the
court.  “It’s hope,” Stanford investor advocate Angela Shaw said
yesterday in a phone interview. “In the last three years,
investors have not had hope.” Shaw said she and her husband
lost $2 million they had invested with the Houston-based
financier.  The SEC sued Stanford and three of his businesses in
February 2009, claiming they were part of a $7 billion Ponzi
scheme centered on the sale of certificates of deposit by
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  The financier was indicted by a U.S. grand jury in Houston
four months later. He has pleaded not guilty.  SIPC is responsible for providing as much as  $500,000  in
coverage for individual investors who lose money or securities
held by insolvent or failing member brokerage firms. It
previously agreed to cover losses sustained by victims of
Bernard Madoff’s multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme and investors
who may have lost money in the October collapse of commodities
broker  MF Global  Inc.  Liquidation Proceeding  The liquidation proceeding would provide customers of the
Stanford brokerage firm a chance to file claims seeking coverage
under the U.S. Securities Investor Protection Act, the SEC said
yesterday in a statement announcing the filing of the lawsuit.  Stanford investors aren’t covered by that law, SIPC
President Stephen P. Harbeck said in a phone interview
yesterday.  “SIPC is going to defend its statutory program,” Harbeck
said. “Congress did not give us the authority to protect the
victims of the Stanford Antigua bank fraud.”  While the victims of the alleged  Ponzi scheme  are “very
sympathetic people,” he said the agency’s mandate is limited to
protecting cash and securities in the possession of a brokerage
firm.  “The victims here did not leave anything with the
brokerage firms,” Harbeck said. “They bought investments. They
were defrauded into buying them.”  ‘Unprecedented’ Position  In a statement, Harbeck’s agency called the SEC’s position
that it should cover investor losses on CDs issued by a bank
outside the U.S. “unprecedented.”  U.S. Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican whose
state is home to many Stanford investors, asked SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  in a Capitol hearing last week to sue SIPC.  “It seems to me that’s what’s going to be required based
on my information and my conversations,” the senator said then.  Reacting to the agency’s move yesterday, Vitter said in a
statement that it “should significantly help the process.”  “This has been a long time coming,” said Shaw, a  Dallas 
wife and mother who also holds a part-time public relations job.  Shaw, 40, was a founder of the Stanford Victims Coalition,
which lobbied the SEC for intervention when SIPC declined to
recognize investor claims.  She criticized the investor protection agency for taking a
stance adverse to the SEC. Stanford Group claimed it was a
registered securities broker and dealer. Shaw said.  Hard Fight  “Investors should not have to fight this hard,” she said.  The SEC case against Stanford and his companies was filed
in U.S. District Court in Dallas, where Judge David Godbey then
granted the regulator’s request to appoint a receiver to
liquidate the financier’s personal and commercial holdings.  Receiver Ralph Janvey, in a telephone interview yesterday,
said it doesn’t matter whether the money to repay Stanford’s
investors is derived from his efforts or from the SIPC.  “I want to get as much money back to the investors as
possible,” he said.  Janvey sought SIPC coverage for Stanford Group clients in
2009, according to the  SEC filing  today. The agency declined
then, stating that the business hadn’t been performing a custody
function for its customers.  The SEC on June 15, 2011, determined that Stanford Group
customers were entitled to SIPC protection, the regulator said,
and formally requested its board of directors initiate
proceedings.  ‘Diametrically Opposed’  While the agency said it would reveal its own determination
in September, no such announcement was made.  “To date, SIPC has refused to take the necessary steps to
institute a liquidation proceeding as requested by the
commission,” according to the SEC court filing.  “Given the diametrically opposed positions of the SEC and
SIPC, this matter is going to have to be resolved in the
courts,” Harbeck said in the agency’s press statement. “The
courts have a process in place for examining both the facts and
the law to test the SEC’s position.”  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington). The 2009 case is Securities
and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International Bank Ltd.,
09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  