-- 
SEC Would Add Two Commissioners Under U.S. Chamber Overhaul Plan

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T16:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sec-would-add-two-commissioners-under-u-s-chamber-overhaul-plan.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission needs a top-down restructuring that increases the
number of commissioners and requires they be more specialized,
according to a report from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  The SEC would expand to seven members including a deputy
chairman for management and operations under proposals included
in the 135-page “Roadmap for Transformational Reform,”
released in  Washington  today by the Chamber’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness. The plan outlines an overhaul for an
SEC “grounded in an outdated view of the world’s financial
markets” and in profound need of structural change.  “The agency has been too late to the dance so often that
one can no longer consider these aberrations,” Jonathan G. Katz, the former SEC secretary who wrote the report for the
chamber, said in a conference call with reporters. “Tinkering
and fine tuning is no longer the best strategy,” he said.  Katz’s report calls for an expansion of investigative
training in the SEC enforcement division and suggests that older
cases “be closed routinely” to cut back the unit’s backlog.
Enforcement “should have an explicit goal of bringing cases
that advance the Commission’s entire regulatory agenda,”
according to the report.  “The only unacceptable answer is the notion that no change
is needed and money alone will solve the SEC’s problems,” David Hirschmann, president and chief executive officer of the Center
for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said on the conference
call. “At a minimum, we hope it’ll lead to a vigorous debate.”  Republican Proposals  Congressional Republicans including Representative  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama , chairman of the House Financial Services
Committee, have proposed legislation to overhaul the SEC after
faulting the agency for missteps before the 2008 credit crisis.
Bachus’s bill calls for consolidating offices and instituting
spending limits, incorporating recommendations from the SEC’s
inspector general, the Government Accountability Office and a
consultant’s report required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has asked Congress to approve a
$1.4 billion budget for 2012 as it implements new oversight
duties under Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in
response to the 2008 crisis.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment on the Chamber’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 