-- 
Second Kyoto Commitment Period Should Be Eight Years, Huhne Says

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-12-13T17:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/second-kyoto-commitment-period-should-be-eight-years-huhne-says.html
The second period for developed
nations to commit to curbing emissions under the Kyoto Protocol
should run from 2013 to 2020, U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
told British lawmakers today.  “In an administratively tidy world, it would be best if it
was eight years,” he told parliament’s Energy and Climate
Change Committee during a session on the outcome of the United
Nations climate talks in Durban,  South Africa .  Huhne was present for the last week of the talks that ended
Dec. 11, where more than 190 countries agreed to start work
toward a deal with legal force to be adopted by 2015 and enacted
by 2020. In exchange, the EU vowed to extend its carbon goals
under the existing climate-protection Kyoto Protocol after the
current ones expire next year.  The EU already has an internal target to reduce emissions
by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels.  UN envoys at the Durban talks agreed that the end-date for
the so-called Kyoto second commitment period will be decided
next year. During the talks, negotiators considered two options:
2017 and 2020.  “It would make sense if it ran up to the 2020 period but
that does remain to be settled,” Huhne said. The second period
of the  Kyoto Protocol  was about sending out a “clear signal”
that the climate-talk “architecture continues,” he said.  The emissions reductions targeted will have to be “enough
to respect the science,” Huhne said.  “And the science will
move.”  Carbon-Capture  Technology  As Britain seeks to meet European Union-set climate goals,
carbon capture and storage technology that traps and buries
power-generation emissions will be “strategically important”
for U.K. energy security, Huhne said.  It is “inevitable” that some of a 1 billion-pound ($1.55
billion) government funding package pulled from an Iberdrola SA
carbon-capture project in  Scotland  will now not be allocated to
CCS during the current spending period, Huhne said. The funds
will still be made available by the U.K. Treasury for future CCS
initiatives, Huhne said.  His comments aim to smooth the debate that the Treasury led
by Chancellor George Osborne is less on-board with green
policies that may impact British energy-intensive industries.  “Do not fall for the easy story that the Treasury is
somehow unsympathetic to these goals” as it encourages cost-
competitive low-carbon energy generation for the consumer, Huhne
said.  Plans to match the U.K. CCS program with a timetable for
CCS projects developed using funds from the European Commission
were “ambitious,” Huhne said.  That EC initiative, devised to aid renewable and CCS
technologies. The program requires projects to start four years
after the Commission awards them funding awards, which it is
expected to do in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  