-- 
Seoul Skyscraper Resembling Twin Towers Collapse May Change After Outcry

-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-12-13T12:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/seoul-skyscraper-resembling-twin-towers-collapse-may-have-design-changed.html
The design of twin skyscrapers
planned for Seoul may be modified in the wake of criticism that
a cloud-shaped bridge joining the buildings resembles the
 explosions  that felled the World Trade Center towers.  MVRDV , the Dutch architecture firm that drew the plans for
the towers joined at the 27th floor by a billowing cloud-shaped
bridge, apologized for any affront caused by the resemblance to
the fireball that sprung from the  New York  buildings in the
Sept. 11 attacks that destroyed the twin towers.  The building designs “have been widely published in Asia
and  Europe  without anyone noticing a resemblance,” Jan Knikker,
a spokesman for the Rotterdam-based firm, said in an e-mail
today. “Once the plan was published in the U.S., the
controversy started.”  The design represents a cloud wrapping around the center of
the skyscrapers, according to the firm’s website. The bridge
connecting the towers, which are 57 and 60 stories high, would
house a conference center, restaurants, swimming pools and a
lounge, MVRDV said.  “There is nothing finalized about the design,” Seo Hee
Seok, a spokesman at  Yongsan Development Co. , developer of
the project in the center of  Seoul  between the financial
district and the Han River, said by telephone today. The
buildings are just some of the 67 high-rise buildings planned
for the Yongsan business district, he said.  ‘Negative Attention’  “It may be difficult for the developer to go on with the
current design after getting negative attention in the mass
media,” Lee Sang Yun, a professor at Yonsei University’s
department of architectural engineering in Seoul, said by phone.  The development is near the Yongsan U.S. Army Garrison,
the headquarters of American forces in  South Korea . The
U.S. has maintained a military presence in South Korea since
the end of the  Korean War  in 1953. It’s moving to a supporting
role in Yongsan with the U.S. base there scheduled to
return to South Korean control by 2016, according to the State
Department’s website.  The World Trade Center towers in New York were destroyed a
decade ago when hijackers crashed passenger jets into the upper
floors of the two buildings, killing 2,752 people. A third
hijacked plane struck the Pentagon in Arlington,  Virginia , and a
fourth crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after passengers
tried to wrest control of the jet from the attackers.  “MVRDV regrets deeply any connotations The Cloud project
evokes regarding 9/11,” the firm said in a statement posted on
its  website .  MVRDV, which also designed the Dutch pavilion for
Expo 2000 in Hanover,  Germany , said that the Seoul towers have
been described as a “reinvention of the skyscraper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at   rkim76@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at   bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 