-- 
Sigdo Koppers to Start Up Peru Petrochemical Plant in 2015

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-12-13T21:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sigdo-koppers-to-start-up-peru-petrochemical-plant-in-2015.html
Sigdo Koppers SA (SK) , the Chilean
industrial holding company, may import ammonia from Trinidad to
jumpstart its delayed $800 million petrochemical complex in  Peru 
and begin operations by 2015.  “We’re looking at multilateral and private-bank financing
for our plant, which would be perfectly feasible with imported
ammonia,” Geir Skarstein, general manager of the company’s
Peruvian unit, said in an interview in  Lima  today. “We’re three
years ahead of the other petrochemical ventures.”  Nitratos del Peru , a venture between Sigdo Koppers and
Peru’s Brescia Group, is part of $60 billion in mining and
energy investments the government expects to see during the next
decade. The ammonium nitrate plant will produce explosives for
mines in Peru, the world’s third-largest copper and zinc
producer.  Nitratos is waiting for the government to negotiate
royalties with Pluspetrol SA before it signs a supply contract
for 65 million cubic feet of natural gas a day from the  Camisea 
field in Peru’s southeastern jungle, Skarstein said. Importing
product from Trinidad is an option if the government is unable
to secure gas, used to manufacture ammonia, for the domestic
market, he said.  Petrochemical plants in Peru have been delayed by a lack of
gas and infrastructure such as pipelines, according to Cesar Gutierrez, an energy analyst at Utilities Peru. Camisea, Peru’s
largest gas field, exports 60 percent of its 1 billion cubic
feet per day of gas production.  Falling Prices  Others hoping to build petrochemical complexes include  CF
Industries Inc. (CF) ,  Orica Ltd. (ORI)  and Petroleo Brasileiro SA.
Odebrecht SA and  SK Group  are studying projects to produce
polyethylene and fertilizers.  Ammonia, which reached a three-year high in October, will
fall as rising shale output cuts gas prices, Skarstein said. New
York-traded gas futures have declined by half in the past two
years.  Shale gas is extracted by blasting millions of gallons of
chemically treated water and sand underground, breaking up the
rock to free trapped gas.  Nitratos plans to produce 710,000 metric tons of ammonia
and 350,000 tons a day of ammonium nitrate annually, according
to the company’s website.  Orica may also import ammonia if it can’t line up gas
supply for its Peruvian project, country manager  Robert McDonald 
said in a Jan. 19 interview.  Sigdo Koppers fell less than 1 percent to close at 908
pesos in Santiago. The stock has dropped 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  