-- 
Silverstein Properties Names Martin Burger Co-CEO of New York Developer

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-12-13T21:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/silverstein-properties-names-martin-burger-co-ceo-of-new-york-developer.html
Larry Silverstein , developer of
officer towers at Manhattan’s World Trade Center site, named
Martin Burger co-chief executive officer of his real estate
company as its investments expand beyond its  New York  base.  Since joining Silverstein Properties Inc. almost two years
ago, Burger has helped start projects in Florida, Eastern Europe
and  China , the developer said in a statement today. Burger will
oversee the company’s role in a joint venture with China Bridge
Capital and state-owned Jiangbeizui Central Business District
Investment and Development Co., according to the statement.  “Marty will lead our continued effort to finance new
development projects, acquire new properties and form new joint
ventures around the globe,” Silverstein, the company’s
president and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Silverstein Properties has “an increasing comfort level”
in its projects at the World Trade Center and elsewhere in
 Manhattan , Silverstein, 80, said in an interview last month. A
partnership with  Jan Kulczyk , Poland’s richest man, purchased a
Warsaw office building as its first deal in August, and has
plans to develop skyscrapers in the city.  Before joining Silverstein Properties, Burger was president
and chief executive officer of Artisan Real Estate Ventures,
where he oversaw the acquisition and management of about 2,000
rental housing units in the Las Vegas area, Silverstein’s
website shows.  He also spent 15 years at Related Cos., Stephen Ross’s real
estate company, during which he oversaw the structuring of $1.8
billion of debt and equity for  New York ’s Time Warner Center,
and later helped refinance that project for more than $2
billion, according to Silverstein’s website.  Burger led the financing of Silverstein’s plan for a 444-
room Four Seasons hotel at Walt Disney World Resort in  Orlando ,
Florida, Silverstein Properties said. The hotel is slated to
open in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  