-- 
Southwest Adds Boeing MAX in Record $19 Billion Jet Order

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-12-13T23:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/southwest-adds-boeing-max-in-17-6-billion-order-for-208-jets.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  agreed to buy
208  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 jets with a list value of $19 billion, the
largest aircraft order ever and the first to include the more
fuel-efficient MAX model.  The MAX accounts for 150 of the jets in the deal, which
includes options for 150 more, Southwest said today. It didn’t
say which MAX version it will take from a family of planes that
Boeing said will range in  price  from $77.7 million to $101.7
million. Airlines typically negotiate discounts.  Upgraded engines on the MAX are supposed to help cut fuel
use as much as 12 percent compared with the current 737, Boeing
says. The Chicago-based planemaker said in July it would offer
the plane after European manufacturer Airbus SAS decided in
December to equip its rival A320 with new engines.  “Southwest has done everything they can to lower costs on
operations and on labor, so it comes down to equipment and
technology and fuel savings,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice
president of consultant Teal Group in Fairfax, Virginia. “It’s
a very strong endorsement for the MAX.”  Deliveries will start in 2017. The order eclipsed Airbus’s
record of 200 planes from AirAsia Bhd in June. Some larger
aircraft transactions announced this year, such as  American
Airlines ’ plan to buy 460 jets split between Airbus and Boeing,
haven’t had firm orders logged for all of the planes involved.  Boeing was unchanged at $70.90 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York ,
while Southwest dropped 3.2 percent to $8.16.  Largest Operator  Buying 737s extends Southwest’s status as the world’s
largest operator of the plane and its commitment to flying only
Boeing aircraft. It is the fourth time Southwest has served as
the initial customer for a version of the 737, the most widely
flown jetliner.  The purchase represents a new fleet plan for Southwest,
which now will accelerate the retirement of its oldest aircraft
and shed smaller Boeing 717s it acquired along with AirTran
Holdings Inc. in May, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said at
Southwest’s Dallas headquarters.  “One of the main challenges we face is high fuel costs,
and we are very much in need of new technology to reduce fuel
burn,” said Kelly. Today’s aircraft order was the first of his
tenure as CEO dating to 2004.  The 737 MAX will reduce fuel burn as much as 18 percent
compared with Southwest’s oldest planes, and as much as 11
percent compared with 737-800 NGs, Southwest Chief Operating
Officer Mike Van de Ven said. The plane will have operating
costs 7 percent less than the competition, Southwest said.  ‘Early Believer’  Engine efficiency is important to Southwest, because fuel
spending has surpassed labor to become the carrier’s largest
cost after a  59 percent jump  in prices over five years. Kelly
warned employees earlier this month that the carrier was facing
increased pressure to cut operating expenses because its cost
advantage over peers had narrowed.  “They were an early believer that fuel prices were going
to stay high,” James M. Higgins, an analyst at New York-based
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, said in an interview. “This really
reflects that philosophy. They seem very sensitive to the fuel-
price environment.”  Southwest’s firm orders for Boeing aircraft grew to 350
from 142 with today’s addition, and deliveries are scheduled
through 2022. The 350 planes represent about $1.2 billion a year
in  capital spending , Van de Ven said. Southwest plans to hold
its fleet size constant at least through 2014, retiring the same
number of planes that it adds annually, Kelly said.  The airline said it was too early to say how the planes
will be financed. Southwest also now holds 242 options for
additional aircraft that would be delivered from 2014 through
2027.  Larger Discounts  Being first to place a MAX order probably won Southwest
larger discounts and the planes will help hold down operating
costs, said Will Randow, a Citigroup Inc. analyst who recommends
buying the shares. Still, the carrier might have been better off
with a smaller order since it’s not reaching targets for return
on invested capital, he said.  “Maybe 20 to 25 new aircraft per year versus the 35 they
are looking to do may have made more sense,” Randow said.  Except for 88 Boeing 717s, Southwest’s fleet of 700 jets
consists entirely of 737s. Southwest is working with Boeing on
terms to return the 717s before their leases expire in 2018
through 2024, Van de Ven said.  The new jets will carry engines valued at  $4.7 billion  from
 CFM International , a partnership of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 France ’s  Safran SA (SAF)  and the exclusive engine provider for the
737.  Boeing Strategy  Boeing originally said it preferred developing an all-new
successor for the single-aisle jet to upgrading its engines. The
planemaker, still grappling with a production system for the new
jet, switched course after orders for Airbus’s A320 upgrade, the
neo, surged and airlines such as Southwest pushed for faster
fuel-efficiency gains.  Boeing announced its strategy in July, when American
included the new jet in an agreement to buy 460 single-aisle
planes, including 260 A320s and 200 737s. Half of the 737s will
be MAX models.  Including Southwest’s order, “there are now 900-plus
orders/commitments for the MAX,” Jason Gursky, a Citigroup
analyst in  San Francisco , said in a note to clients. “With the
specs nailed down, we expect to see more of the 750-plus
remaining commitments begin to turn into orders.”  Boeing could “easily” have 1,400 to 1,500 firm
commitments for MAX aircraft by the end of 2012, said  Jim Albaugh , head of Boeing’s commercial planes division. He
described the planemaker’s relationship with Southwest as
“special,” and said the airline has a strong association with
the 737.  “Gary and I have talked a little bit in the course of
negotiations," Albaugh said, referring to Southwest’s Kelly.
‘‘Gary’s message to me was a pretty simple one. He said, ‘Make
sure that I get the most capable airplane available.’"  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in New York at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  