-- 
Standard Chartered to Increase Takeover Financing in India, Swaroop Says

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-12-13T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/standard-chartered-to-increase-takeover-financing-in-india.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  plans to
increase takeover financing for Indian companies as it seeks to
gain ground in mergers advisory in  emerging markets  on rivals
weakened by  Europe ’s credit crisis.  “As the world goes through this turmoil, banks like ours
which do have the capability and a strong balance sheet see that
as an opportunity,” to lend for acquisitions, Neeraj Swaroop,
the U.K. bank’s outgoing chief executive officer for  India  and
South Asia, said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.  Standard Chartered funded deals including Aditya Birla
Group’s $875 million acquisition of Columbian Chemicals Co. in
January to help defend its No. 3 position in Indian mergers
advisory this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The London-
based bank ranks 43rd globally among arrangers of takeovers.  Banks that offer financing to gain advisory credit distort
the rankings among takeover arrangers, said  Uday Kotak , the
billionaire owner of rival  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  Kotak did
not specifically name Standard Chartered. The Mumbai-based firm,
which is 21st in arranging mergers involving Indian companies
this year, runs financing operations independently of advisory,
he said.  “An advisory league table is about what value has been
added by a banker and you don’t mix it with financing,” Kotak
said in an interview in Mumbai on Dec. 12.   ‘Whole Solution’  The value of mergers involving Indian companies has slumped
42 percent this year to $37.4 billion, according to Bloomberg
data. Inbound purchases are outpacing acquisitions abroad for
the first time in at least a decade, the data show.  Barclays Plc,  State Bank of India (SBIN)  and Standard Chartered
advised on, and were among the financiers for, New Delhi based
Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s $9 billion acquisition of Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co.’s African operations.  Standard Chartered wants to offer a “whole solution” to
clients in India, including domestic and offshore financing,
advisory, and transaction banking, Swaroop said. The bank
assesses the overall return on capital it can achieve on each
client when deciding whether to extend takeover loans, he said.  Swaroop, who joined Standard Chartered as India CEO from
domestic rival  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  in 2005, will move to Singapore
next year to run the company’s Southeast Asian operations.  Profit Generator  Standard Chartered got over 70 percent of its pretax profit
from Asia last year, as CEO  Peter Sands  expanded in emerging
markets while European rivals sought to fend off contagion from
the sovereign debt crisis. It is the largest foreign bank in
India by number of branches, and the country was Standard
Chartered’s third-largest profit generator in the first half,
behind  Hong Kong  and Singapore.  The bank’s profit in India before taxes for the first half
of 2011 fell 39 percent to $378 million, amid increased
competition and rising interest rates in India, Bloomberg data
show. Swaroop said he expects earnings to rise in 2012 as
profits increase at the wholesale bank.  Standard Chartered bolstered its position in India with
acquisitions, including the purchase of the South Asian and
Middle Eastern operations of Melbourne-based ANZ Grindlays Bank
Ltd., in 2000, which made it the biggest foreign lender in
India, Pakistan,  Sri Lanka  and Bangladesh. It bought the banking
unit of American Express Co. for about $860 million in 2007,
adding branch licenses in markets including India and Taiwan.  Standard Chartered, the only foreign company to  list (STAN)  its
shares in India, had 1.06 trillion rupees ($19 billion) of
assets in India as of March 31. Swaroop said the company plans
to add “a few hundred people” at its local consumer and
wholesale banking operations next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  