-- 
Steelers Linebacker Harrison Suspended One Game for Illegal Hit on McCoy

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-13T19:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/steelers-linebacker-harrison-suspended-one-game-for-illegal-hit-on-mccoy.html
Pittsburgh Steelers Pro Bowl
linebacker  James Harrison  was suspended for one game by the
 National Football League  for his fifth illegal hit against a
quarterback in the last three seasons.  Harrison received a roughing-the-passer penalty for a head-
to-head hit against Cleveland Browns quarterback  Colt McCoy 
during the Steelers’ 14-3 win on Dec. 8.  Harrison, 33, was fined four times for illegal hits on
quarterbacks during the 2009 and 2010 seasons. He also was fined
twice by the league for unnecessary roughness over that period,
the NFL said in a statement.  Harrison said on Twitter that he’s “just going to move on
from here and get ready for my next game.”  NFL rules state that players fined for violations in 2009
and 2010 are considered repeat offenders. He would lose one game
paycheck if the suspension is upheld. Fox Sports said Harrison
makes about $215,000 a game.  Harrison has three days to file an appeal, the league said.
If he accepts the ban, he’d miss the Steelers’ Monday night game
against the  San Francisco 49ers  on Dec. 19. Pittsburgh is tied
with the  Baltimore Ravens  for first place in the American
Football Conference North division at 10-3.  Harrison told reporters yesterday he didn’t expect to be
disciplined, saying McCoy started running and then made a quick
pass to Montario Hardesty just before being hit.  ‘Chucked and Ducked’  “He took off running and then at the last second he
chucked and ducked,” Harrison said after practice.  The NFL said in its statement that defensive players can’t
use their helmets against a quarterback out of the pocket who is
in a defenseless posture. The league cited Article 13 of its
rulebook, which prohibits “forcibly hitting the passer’s head
or neck area with the helmet or facemask, regardless of whether
the defensive player also uses his arms to tackle the passer by
encircling or grasping him.”  Steelers coach  Mike Tomlin  said he’s disappointed, yet
accepts the NFL’s ruling.  “We are disappointed for James because we know how hard he
has worked to play within the rules,” Tomlin said today at a
news conference. “He has worked extremely hard to adjust his
game. Unfortunately the incident happened. Of course it was a
penalty. We have to be accountable for that; he has to be
accountable for that. We’ll move forward.”  Detroit Lions defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh was suspended
without pay by the NFL two weeks ago for two games for stomping
on an opposing player during a Nov. 24 game against the  Green
Bay Packers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  