-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb as German Confidence Improves; Petrofac, Man Group Gain

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-12-13T17:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/stocks-advance-as-german-confidence-improves-petrofac-man-group-climb.html
U.K. Stocks (UKX)  rebounded from
yesterday’s biggest selloff in three weeks after German investor
confidence rose and investor demand increased for Spanish debt,
easing concern over the euro-area debt crisis.  BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc paced gains in crude
oil amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may tonight announce
additional measures to stimulate growth. Petrofac Plc jumped 5.1
percent after the company boosted its profit forecast.  Man Group
Plc (EMG)  rallied as the hedge fund manager said it bought more
shares.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index advanced 62.29, or 1.2
percent, to 5,490.15 at the close in  London . The FTSE All-Share
Index climbed 1.1 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.5
percent in Dublin.  “The main contributor to the bullish sentiment today was a
Spanish bond auction, indicating that despite the turmoil
there’s still demand for European government debt,” said
London-based Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads.
“Markets have also been supported by the uptick in German
confidence data.”  Spain  sold 4.94 billion euros ($6.52 billion) of bills
today, more than the maximum target of 4.25 billion euros that
the Treasury set for the sale. Borrowing costs fell, while the
demand for the 12-month paper increased.  German Investor Sentiment  In  Germany ,  investor confidence  unexpectedly rose for the
first time in 10 months in December, indicating Europe’s largest
economy is weathering the region’s debt crisis.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, increased
to minus 53.8 from a three-year low of minus 55.2 in November.
 Economists had forecast  a drop to minus 55.8.  The FTSE 100 dropped 1.8 percent yesterday after Moody’s
Investors Service said it’s reviewing all national credit
ratings in the European Union following last week’s debt-crisis
summit in Brussels.  BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company, rallied 1.7
percent to 452.25 pence and Shell, the region’s biggest oil
company, advanced 2.1 percent to 2,308.5 pence.  Oil surged above $100 a barrel in  New York  trading amid
speculation the Fed may tonight announce a third round of bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “There have been a number of rumors floating around the
market today,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas
Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “There are rumors for further
action by the Fed, but where they come from I don’t know.”  U.S. Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues will meet tonight to discuss the outlook for the
world’s largest economy. Crude also climbed on speculation
supplies will be disrupted after a report said Iran will hold
military drills to close the Strait of Hormuz.  Petrofac jumped 5.1 percent to 1,443 pence after the U.K.
oilfield-services provider said it will beat its  profit target (PFC) 
in 2011 as it works through a record order backlog. Net income
will rise at least 20 percent, more than the 15 percent goal the
company set at the start of the year.  Man Group gained 3.2 percent to 134.3 pence, climbing for
the first time in six days. The biggest publicly traded hedge
fund manager said after the close of trading yesterday that it
bought back 1.4 million shares at 131.94 pence apiece.  Whitbread, Go-Ahead Group  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  dropped 3.9 percent to 1,514 pence, its
largest decline since March, after the owner of Premier Inn and
Costa Coffee shops reported a slowdown in revenue growth as the
U.K. hotel market weakened.  Sales at outlets open at least a year rose 2.4 percent in
the 13 weeks ended Dec. 1, less than the 3.3 percent growth in
the first half. Like-for-like sales at Premier Inn climbed 2.6
percent, compared with 5.2 percent in the first half.  Elsewhere,  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG)  advanced 7.9 percent to 1,329
pence after the company said that full-year operating profit
will be “slightly ahead” of expectations.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  surged 14 percent to
498.5 pence after reporting first-half revenue that topped
analysts’ estimates. The company also said it remains confident
of “continued good progress” this year and next.  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  jumped 8 percent to 427 pence after the
company said it expects improved results in the second half of
the year. Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and Panmure Gordon raised
their recommendations for the shares to “hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  