-- 
Sony’s Shopping Spree Is ‘Wrong Direction’ in Apple Battle: Tech

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-12-13T00:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/stringer-s-shopping-spree-wrong-direction-for-sony-in-apple-battle-tech.html
Sony Corp . Chief Executive Officer
 Howard Stringer  has announced acquisitions worth $8.4 billion
this year to bolster phones and content. That may not be enough
to turn around a company heading for a fourth consecutive  loss .  Japan ’s largest consumer-electronics exporter will pay cash
to control its mobile-phone venture with Ericsson AB, partner
with  Michael Jackson ’s estate for music assets from EMI Group,
and team up with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for  patent
rights . The Ericsson buyout gives Sony full access to the unit’s
6.29 billion euros ($8.3 billion) in revenue, adding to Sony’s
$84 billion in sales for the year ended March 31.  Stringer’s efforts to bulk up  profitable lines (6758)  may not
overcome the lack of demand in the U.S. and  Europe  for Bravia
TVs, which forced the Tokyo-based company to slash its sales
forecast and predict an eighth straight year of  losses  in the
business.  Sony  has lost 399.3 billion yen ($5.1 billion) the
past three years and predicts adding more this year amid
competition with Apple and  Samsung Electronics Inc. (005930)   “What Stringer needs to do is to fix the TV business, not
pursue acquisitions,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Acquisitions aren’t going to bring back growth.”  Michael Jackson’s Estate  Sony has been hobbled by a stronger yen that reached a
postwar high, waning sales, a Japan earthquake that crippled
factories and Thailand flooding that cut production.  Sony, worth $100 billion in September 2000, is now valued
at $18 billion, compared with Cupertino, California-based Apple
at $364 billion and Samsung at $137 billion. Last month, Sony
predicted 90 billion yen in losses in the year ending in March,
reversing an earlier forecast for a profit of 60 billion yen.  Sony has announced nine acquisitions this year, the same as
last year. The spending is more than three times greater than
the prior three years combined, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The biggest deal is the $4.5 billion purchase of patents
owned by  Nortel Networks Corp . for access to technologies used
in mobile phones and tablets. Sony partnered with Apple,
Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , Ericsson and  EMC Corp . in
that bid, announced in July.  Jackson’s estate, billionaire  David Geffen , Mubadala
Development Co. PJSC and Blackstone Group joined Sony in
agreeing to buy EMI Music Publishing from Citigroup Inc. for
$2.2 billion.  Hendrix, Spider-Man  “Acquisition is the wrong direction for Sony,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo,
which manages $3 billion. “Sony must concentrate only on a few
electronic products, maybe even get out of the manufacturing
business.”  Sony Music, featuring Jackson,  Jimi Hendrix  and Kelly Clarkson, was the second-biggest contributor of operating income
at Sony after financial services during the fiscal year that
ended in March.  Sony Pictures , producer of “The Smurfs,” “The
Social Network” and “Spider-Man,” was the third-biggest.  In October, the maker of  Xperia phones  agreed to spend $1.5
billion in cash to purchase Ericsson’s 50 percent stake in their
mobile-phone venture and integrate the smartphone business with
its gaming and tablet offerings.  Other deals this year include the $118 million purchase of
a  Seiko Epson Corp. (6724)  subsidiary in  China  and a $63 million deal
with Toshiba, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stringer Strategy  Sony had $16.9 billion of  cash and equivalents  at the end
of September, according to Bloomberg data.  “We will consider mergers and acquisitions in any area and
business that is necessary for growth so as to strengthen our
existing operations and technology and create a new business,”
 Mami Imada , a Sony spokeswoman, said by phone.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, with $18.4 billion of
cash and equivalents on Sept. 30, made 16 acquisitions this year,
totaling $831 million. The only acquisition by Apple, which had
$81.6 billion on Sept. 24, was partnering with Sony in the
Nortel bid.  “Stringer is buying time by purchasing companies with
appreciating technology,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps
oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“The company is spending its cash to strengthen its technology
and service contents.”  Sony’s TV business has lost 480 billion yen in the past
seven years and is forecast to lose another 175 billion yen in
the year ending in March. Sony is the world’s No. 3 TV maker,
trailing Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , based in Seoul.  ‘TV is Key’  The maker of Bravia TVs lowered its annual sales projection
to 20 million sets from 22 million and said it was taking a 50
billion-yen charge for streamlining the TV operation.  The company is countering with plans to write down the
value of some facilities, reduce the number of models and cut
expenses at its marketing units.  “I have unflagging resolve” to turn the TV business
around, Executive Deputy President  Kazuo Hirai  said Nov. 2.
Sony’s management “feels a sense of crisis” about the unit’s
losses, he said.  TV makers also face what Credit Suisse called a
“generational culture shift surrounding video consumption.”
Teens live in an Internet-based video culture that doesn’t
depend on cable and satellite broadcasts, and they are satisfied
with “small-screen experiences” and lower picture quality, the
analysts led by New York-based Stefan Anninger said in the Nov.
28 report.  ‘Apple Make Movie?’  Yet Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. in
 Tokyo , said TVs are “the business that Sony can’t exit.”  “Television is the key,” said Wakabayashi, who doesn’t
rate Sony. “It is at the center of the strategy to integrate
hardware and software.”  That integration will help Sony take on rivals, including
Apple, Stringer said last month at Berlin’s annual consumer
electronics fair. He can draw on music from 13 U.S. labels and
movies from Sony Pictures Classics, Columbia Pictures and
TriStar Pictures.  “Apple makes an iPad, but does it make a movie?” he said.
“We will prove that it’s not who makes the tablet first who
counts, but who makes it better.”  Sony sells music and movies through Apple’s iTunes store,
keeping 70 percent of the sales while Apple gets the remaining
30 percent. It also is expanding its online-music business by
forging a partnership with Google Inc.  Sony needs to do more to “blend” those assets with its
hardware in order to compete with its bigger rivals, Akino said.  “The company’s culture is to polish the technology,” he
said. “Stringer knows what to focus on. The company doesn’t
have the speed to catch up with Apple and Samsung.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  