-- 
STT Said to Seek Eircom Debt Clause in Event of Irish Exit From Euro Zone

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-12-13T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/stt-said-to-seek-eircom-debt-clause-in-event-of-irish-exit-from-euro-zone.html
Eircom Group Ltd.  owner Singapore
Technologies Telemedia Pte. is seeking to safeguard any new
investment in Ireland’s biggest phone company in case the nation
exits the euro, according to a person familiar with the matter.  STT proposed yesterday that any additional equity it puts
into Eircom convert into debt outranking other creditors should
Ireland drop the euro, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. STT sought to
“derisk” its investment, Joe Carmody, an external STT
spokesman said, as Eircom seeks a 3.8 billion euros ($5 billion)
debt restructuring.  “The new proposal, while reflecting the current macro-
economic uncertainty in the euro-zone, is targeted at giving
Eircom the best chance to be competitive and viable,” he said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  STT said on Dec. 2 that it wasn’t ready to make a debt-
restructuring proposal “owing to the continuing macro-economic
uncertainty in the  euro zone .” Trades at Intrade, the Dublin-
based firm whose clients try to predict events, indicate a 50
percent chance that a country will leave the euro by the end of
2013.  Eircom is saddled with borrowings following five ownership
changes in the past 12 years. The company said yesterday it is
weighing STT’s proposal, alongside one from its first-lien
lenders and another from its second-lien creditors.  STT proposed that a material adverse change clause be
inserted into any agreement, which would involve any further
cash it injected into Eircom converting into a so-called super
senior debt in the event Ireland exits the euro, the person
said. A super senior lender is usually a bondholder who’s repaid
before any other in a default.  Impact  In a statement yesterday, STT said “it is difficult to
comprehensively assess the impact on Eircom of any possible
changes that may occur within the euro-zone.”  The euro yesterday fell to the lowest level in two months
versus the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service said it will
review the ratings of European Union nations after last week’s
summit failed to produce decisive steps to end the debt crisis.  STT wants first-lien lenders to write off more debt than
was proposed in August, according to the person familiar with
the situation.  STT’s originally proposed the company’s most senior
creditors write down 8 percent of what they are owed in exchange
for a stake between 15 and 25 percent in the company, according
to three other people.  Carmody declined to comment in detail on STT’s proposal.
STT took control of Eircom in 2010 following an initial
investment of between 30 million euros and 40 million euros.  Eircom spokesman Paul Bradley and a spokesman for the
company’s first-lien lenders each declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 