-- 
Subprime Mortgages Cheap to Buyers With Long View, Pine River’s Kuhn Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-12-13T18:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/subprime-mortgages-cheap-to-buyers-with-long-view-pine-river-s-kuhn-says.html
Institutional mortgage-bond buyers
consider securities backed by  subprime  home loans issued during
the housing boom as worthwhile investments, Pine River Capital
Management LP’s Steve Kuhn said.  “Almost to a person, everyone who’s a serious analyst in
this market thinks they are cheap if you can hold the bonds to a
three-to-five year horizon,” Kuhn, head of fixed-income trading
at the hedge fund, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack” with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle. “The concern is maybe they can get cheaper.”  Bruce Richards of hedge fund Marathon Asset Management LP
and mortgage-investment company Ellington Financial LLC,
overseen by Michael Vranos’s firm, are also seeing value in the
$1.1 trillion  market  for non-agency U.S. mortgage securities
which don’t have government backing, after some of the debt
slumped to the lowest in two years. Some types have dropped as
much as 40 percent since their highs in the first quarter,
Richards said Dec. 1 on Bloomberg Television.  Banks dumping securities to improve their  capital ratios 
and to comply with the so-called Volcker rule restricting the
risks brokers can take with their own money have helped roil the
market, said Kuhn, whose Minnetonka, Minnesota-based firm
oversees $5.4 billion and invests in mortgage debt.  Capital Cushions  Concern that European lenders will off-load more non-agency
securities to boost their capital cushions has left the debt
stalled even during periods when broader markets post gains,
Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Capital analysts said in Dec.
9 reports. Those European banks hold about 169 billion to 249
billion euros ($221 billion to $326 billion) of U.S.-dollar
denominated securitized debt, including more than 60 billion
euros of residential-mortgage securities, Morgan Stanley
analysts estimated last month.  Subprime debt offers yields of 12 percent to 13 percent
assuming 80 percent of the underlying borrowers default, with
recoveries of 25 percent, Kuhn said.  “At the prices they’re trading now, you do not have to
have a pair of rose-colored glasses to think you can do well
here,” he said.  Certain originally AAA rated subprime securities issued in
2006 have lost about 21 percent this year, including price
declines and coupon payments, after gaining 45 percent last
year, according to a Dec. 9 report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Returns on some types of senior securities backed by so-
called prime-jumbo mortgages ranged from as much as 3 percent to
negative 3 percent this year, the report showed. Similar bonds
tied to so-called Alt-A loans gained as much as 2 percent to a
decline of 5 percent, while notes backed by option adjustable-
rate mortgages lost between 3 percent and 6 percent, the data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  