-- 
Supervalu War on Obesity Drowned Out by Kraft Marketing: Retail

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T13:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/supervalu-war-on-obesity-drowned-out-by-kraft-marketing-retail.html
When  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  decided to put
nutritional labels on its food, the U.S. grocery chain was
determined not to play nanny to its customers, according to
Chief Marketing Officer Julie Dexter Berg.  “We would never put a sign on Cheetos and say: ‘This is
something you should not be buying,’” she said.  By not calling out unhealthy food, Supervalu’s labeling
program may be setting itself up to fail, said Michael Jacobson,
 executive director  at the Center for Science in the Public
Interest, a Washington-based advocacy group. The labels won’t
help win the war on obesity because they’re being drowned out by
a marketing onslaught from the likes of Cheetos maker  PepsiCo
Inc.  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , he said.  “People have habits and preferences, they trust brands,”
Jacobson said in a telephone interview. Nutrition is “not
nearly as visible as the big picture -- the brand name.”  With a record two-thirds of Americans overweight or obese,
companies from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to Supervalu are trying to
avoid blame for the obesity epidemic, according to Jacobson. Two
years ago, food companies including Kraft and Kellogg Co. pulled
their own healthy labels following an investigation by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.  Working with first lady  Michelle Obama  and her campaign to
fight obesity, Supervalu is using color-coded labels to
highlight foods rich in protein, say, or low in saturated fat.
 Wal-Mart (WMT)  has committed to lowering salt, sugar and fat in some
foods.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  is selling fruits and vegetables at some of
its drug store locations.  After being picked on for selling fatty, processed fare,
many stores see healthy food labels as a must, said Brahm
Ahmadi, chief executive officer of People’s Community Market, an
independent grocer in Oakland,  California .  ‘Goodwill’  “To win goodwill among decision makers at all levels of
government is probably seen as a good investment,” he said.  Supervalu’s food label system, dubbed  nutrition iQ , began
appearing in the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company’s
Albertsons stores in 2009, after 13 months of testing and
surveys of 7,000 consumers. The initiative has since expanded to
the grocer’s Jewel-Osco, Cub, Acme, Shoppers, Hornbacher’s and
Farm Fresh chains.  To qualify for one of 18 colored labels that call out
certain health benefits -- pink means 100 percent fruit juice,
dark orange means whole grains -- an item has to have low
saturated fat, sodium and sugar. Other programs have used stars
and  scores  from one to 100 to rate foods.  One problem with Supervalu’s existing labels is that they
can be misleading, said Jennifer McCaffrey, a registered
dietitian with the University of Illinois Extension and
spokeswoman for the Illinois Dietetic Association.  Processed Eggs  At one of the chain’s Jewel-Osco stores, cartons of
processed egg product received yellow and red tags to signify
their health benefits as part of nutrition iQ, while regular
eggs didn’t get any labels.  That may lead people to believe that egg products are
better than actual eggs, “but that’s not necessarily the
case,” McCaffrey said while holding a carton of  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG) ’s Egg Beaters at a Chicago Jewel-Osco store. “Food doesn’t
come in a vacuum.”  Less than one-third of consumers say they completely
understand nutritional labeling programs, according to a 2011
study from the Arlington, Virginia-based  Food Marketing
Institute . Among those with access to health information at the
supermarket, only 7 percent use it each time they shop, the
study said.  Carolyn McGee, a 57-year-old housewife in Chicago, says
she’s more concerned with price and doesn’t heed shelf or front-
of-package nutrition claims.  ‘Don’t Buy It’  “If I don’t think it’s good for me, I just don’t buy it,”
said McGee, who was picking up frozen pizza, shrimp and hot
sauce at one of Supervalu’s Jewel-Osco stores.  Nutrition iQ is affecting what consumers buy, Supervalu CEO
Craig Herkert said in an interview. Healthy fare such as a
certain whole wheat flour and pizza sauce are selling more
briskly, he said.  Supervalu fell 0.5 percent to $7.44 at the close in  New
York  yesterday.  Food labeling won’t be as effective as long as grocers
remain reluctant to anger manufacturers by singling out “bad”
foods, Jacobson said.  A European Union program to use red, amber and green circle
warnings on foods with high salt, fat, sugar and calories died
last year under pressure from lobbyists. The big food companies
“went to war” on the “traffic-light” labels and legislators
caved, Jacobson said.  ‘Go to War’  “And they’d go to war here because they hate the idea of
red dots on their food,” he said.  Supervalu didn’t design its labeling system with the aim of
maintaining good relations with suppliers, CMO Berg said. The
company doesn’t want to tell customers what to do.  The best way to get people eating healthy is to make the
labels uniform from brand to brand and store to store, said
Kelly Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy &
Obesity at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  “There should be some uniform standard,” he said. “The
industry has not proven itself trustworthy in doing this on its
own.”  Food makers including Kraft, Unilever Plc and  Kellogg (K) 
called mayonnaise and Froot Loops cereal “Smart Choices” in
2009 before pulling the labels following the FDA investigation.  Kraft, which isn’t using a nutrition labeling system now,
says it’s up to every company to decide what kind of nutrition
program works best for its customers.  “The goals overall are to help people have the information
they need,” said Susan Davison, a company spokeswoman.  Money Talks  Ultimately, money talks, and that means offering discounts
for healthy fare, according to Brownell.  In  Detroit , Jim Hooks is doing just that. The owner of
independent market Metro Foodland awards points and $10-off
vouchers to shoppers who buy items on its healthy rewards list,
which includes pineapple and asparagus.  Supervalu’s Berg said the chain may give discounts to
shoppers who buy produce and nutrition iQ items in the future.
She declined to offer any timing on a rewards program.  Discounting nutritious food would be a tough sell for a
large, publicly traded grocer, said Ahmadi, of People’s
Community Market.  No doubt Hooks is “giving up some margin to do this,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  