-- 
Sweeney Says Sick-Day Payout Impasse Has Cost New Jersey Towns ‘Millions’

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-13T17:19:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/sweeney-says-sick-day-payout-impasse-has-cost-new-jersey-towns-millions-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
refusal to compromise on a bill that would cap payouts for
government workers’ unused sick time has cost towns millions of
dollars, Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  said.  Christie, a first-term Republican, vetoed a Democrat-
sponsored bill last December that would have capped the payments
at $15,000. The governor, 49, said yesterday he won’t sign the
measure unless it ends the payouts.  A version with a $7,500 limit would cost taxpayers $3.25
billion if all current state and local employees retired,
Christie has said. Amid the impasse, towns’ liabilities for
unused sick and vacation days continue to accrue, Sweeney said
today at a public policy forum in Iselin.  “I’m sure we could find a compromise, but we should not
have been stalled this whole time until we find it,” Sweeney
said. “He could have stopped the bleeding back when we gave him
the bill, which would have saved millions of dollars.”  Sweeney, 52,  New Jersey ’s highest-ranking Democratic
lawmaker, said he isn’t sure the issue will be resolved in the
legislative session that ends Jan. 9. A $7,500 cap is
“absolutely reasonable,” said Sweeney, of West Deptford.  Property Taxes  Christie has said ending sick-leave payouts is necessary to
help mayors stay within a 2 percent threshold he placed on
annual growth of New Jersey’s highest-in-the-nation property
taxes.  “Three-and-a-quarter billion dollars is not a small amount
of money and that doesn’t represent a compromise,” Christie
said yesterday in a Trenton news conference. “Zero should be
zero and I don’t see myself compromising.”  Some of New Jersey’s 566 municipalities, including the two
most-populous, Newark and  Jersey City , were forced to borrow to
pay workers $43 million last year for unused sick and vacation
time. The governor said last week that more than 230 mayors,
Republicans and Democrats, back his proposal to end the payouts.  “Our goal, just as with pension and benefit and other real
reforms, is to fix a serious problem for the long term, and to
end this abuse of taxpayer funds once and for all,”  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Anything
short of that is an excuse to pay homage to special interests
with taxpayer dollars. The public wants this to stop --
entirely, not in part.”  Sweeney, an ironworkers union official who has been in
county government for 14 years, said he supports Christie’s
“use it or lose it” position on sick leave. A full ban on
cashing in unused days may lead to fraud as workers seek to
“burn off” the time each year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  