-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance; Roche Holding, Novartis Shares Lead Gains

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-13T16:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-as-government-predicts-slower-gdp-growth.html
Swiss stocks (DAX)  advanced, after
swinging between gains and losses throughout the day, as German
investor confidence unexpectedly improved easing concern the
latest euro-area accord will fail to halt the debt crisis.  Health-care companies led gains, with  Roche Holding AG 
climbing 1.1 percent.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s biggest
dental implant maker, jumped 3.6 percent.  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, led losses among lenders
and financial companies.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, added 0.2 percent to 5,759.72 at the
close in Zurich, having fluctuated between gains and losses more
than 30 times. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
increased 0.2 percent today.  “The  U.S. economy  is holding up pretty well,” said Patrik Scheuber, head of equities at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in
Zurich. “But that is hardly enough to go significantly higher.
 Europe  still stands in the foreground as all efforts to solve
the debt crisis are still inadequate.”  German investor confidence unexpectedly improved for the
first time in 10 months in December. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research said that its  index of German investor and
analyst expectations , which aims to predict developments six
months in advance, posted a reading of minus 53.8. That was
better than the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Credit Review  The SMI dropped 0.8 percent yesterday, after Moody’s
Investors Service said it is reviewing all national credit
ratings in the euro area following the Dec. 8-9 European Union
summit in Brussels.  Fitch Ratings  said that the accord agreed by euro-area
leaders at the summit did little to ease pressure on the
governments struggling with the debt crisis.  “The lack of a comprehensive solution has increased short-
term pressure on euro-zone sovereign credit profiles and
ratings,” Fitch  said. “It means the crisis will continue at
varying levels of intensity throughout 2012 and probably beyond,
until the region is able to sustain broad economic recovery.”  A U.S. Commerce Department report today showed retail sales
in the world’s largest economy gained 0.2 percent in November,
the slowest pace in five months, following a 0.6 percent advance
the previous month. Economists had projected a 0.6 percent
increase in November, according to the median forecast of 83
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swiss GDP Growth  The Swiss government said today it doesn’t expect  economic
growth  to recover before 2013. It lowered the growth forecasts
to 1.8 percent this year and 0.5 percent in 2012, from its
earlier estimates of 1.9 percent and 0.9 percent respectively.
It projected a growth of 1.9 percent in 2013.  Spain  sold 4.94 billion euros ($6.5 billion) of 12- and 18-
month bills, the Bank of Spain said, compared with the maximum
target of 4.25 billion euros the Treasury set for the sale.  Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, rallied
1.1 percent to 155.60 Swiss francs, while Novartis AG added 0.9
percent to 51.40 francs. Lonza Group AG, the world’s biggest
maker of drug ingredients, gained 1.9 percent to 54.15 francs.  Straumann, Georg Fischer  Straumann Holding rose 3.6 percent to 173.60 francs after
Simon Goetschmann, an analyst at Helvea Ltd., resumed coverage
of the stock with a “neutral” rating, saying the company
appears to be fairly valued.  Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  climbed 1.8 percent to 318.50 francs after
Credit Suisse analyst Patrick Laager raised his recommendation
on the machinery maker to “outperform” from “neutral.”
Laager said investors should pick stocks selectively in the
Swiss industrial sector.  Richemont fell 1.2 percent to 47.35 francs after analysts
downgraded the shares. Shamil Ismail of Cadiz Securities cut the
recommendation to “hold” from “buy.” Separately, CA Chevreux
downgraded the stock to “outperform” from “selected list.”
Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, slid 2.6 percent to
332.30 francs.  Credit Suisse lost 1 percent to 21.92 francs after being
sued by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former
investment firm to recover $375 million in redemptions that were
taken out of Madoff’s company before his  Ponzi scheme  was
exposed.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, retreated 0.8 percent to 202.70 franc.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the
country’s biggest bank, lost 1 percent to 11.11 francs.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the hearing-aid maker, dropped 1.2
percent to 94.65 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  