-- 
Swiss Franc Cap May Stay at 1.20 as Hildebrand Resists Call From Exporters

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-12-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/swiss-franc-cap-may-stay-at-1-20-as-hildebrand-resists-call-from-exporters.html
The Swiss central bank may resist
pressure from exporters to further curb the strength of the
franc as officials avoid testing the credibility of their
currency policy and take time to assess deflation risks.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) , led by Philipp Hildebrand, will
keep the franc’s minimum  exchange rate  at 1.20 per euro,
according to 9 out of 13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The Zurich-based central bank will also maintain its benchmark
interest rate at zero, when policy makers announce their
decision at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow, a separate survey shows.  SNB policy makers are weighing the risks of defending a
higher floor at a time of a worsening European fiscal crisis
against the threat of deflation as the economy cools. While
Hildebrand has said the central bank is ready to take further
measures if needed, increasing the limit would be “risky at
this juncture,” said Geoffrey Kendrick, head of European
currency strategy at Nomura International Plc in  London .  “Current policy is credible, effective and profitable,”
Kendrick said. “Moving the floor when euro-zone concerns are
high risks tempting market attack. If markets broke a 1.25
floor, they would be more inclined to attack the 1.20 level.”  Declining Prices  The franc, seen as a haven in times of turmoil, gained as
much as 37 percent against the euro in the year before the SNB
imposed the limit on Sept. 6, as European leaders failed to
contain the debt crisis. It reached a record 1.0075 per euro on
Aug. 9 and has traded in a range of 1.20 to 1.25 since policy
makers imposed the cap.  The SNB had a record loss of $21 billion in 2010 after it
purchased foreign currencies at an unprecedented pace in the 15
months through June to stem franc gains.  SNB board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said on Nov. 4 that
even at the current level, the franc “remains high” and should
continue to weaken over time. “If the economic outlook and
deflationary risks so require, further measures will be taken,”
he said without elaborating.  Swiss consumer prices fell 0.5 percent in November from a
year earlier, the biggest drop in more than two years, after
declining 0.1 percent the previous month.  “One swallow does not make a summer and two months of
falling prices doesn’t mean we are in deflationary territory,”
said You-Na Park, a foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “Admittedly, there is a risk of deflation, but
the SNB will bide its time and wait and see whether further data
confirm the downward trend in consumer prices.”  ‘Monetary Easing’  Switzerland ’s economy is showing increasing signs of a
slowdown, adding pressure on companies to lower costs. The KOF
economic leading indicator fell in November to the lowest in
more than two years and manufacturing output contracted for a
third month.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-largest pharmaceutical
company, has said it plans to trim 2,000 jobs.  Reto Huenerwadel, an economist at UBS AG in Zurich, said
the SNB may cut its growth and inflation forecasts at tomorrow’s
meeting. In September, policy makers projected the economy will
expand between 1.5 percent and 2 percent this year. Consumer
prices may drop 0.3 percent in 2012, they said.  “We expect the SNB to engage in a further monetary easing
by lifting the lower boundary” to 1.25, Huenerwadel wrote in an
e-mailed note. “Across the various peer groups in Switzerland -
- employers and employees -- we think the support for further
monetary activities is a given.”  Franc ‘Burden’  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, said
last month franc gains reduced third-quarter earnings.  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek has called the franc
“difficult” and the Swiss Employers’ Association said on Nov.
7 the currency is still overvalued.  “For many companies, the exchange rate of 1.20 francs per
euro isn’t sufficient to ease the burden,” Hans Hess, head of
Swissmem, the nation’s largest lobby group for manufacturers,
said last month, when calling for a higher franc limit.  Economists expect the Swiss exchange rate to remain steady.
The currency will trade at 1.23 per euro in the first quarter of
2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of 36 economists. In the
fourth quarter of next year, it may average 1.26 per euro, it
showed.  “In the course of 2012, we expect the franc to weaken
against the euro as the debt crisis may ease,” Alessandro Bee,
an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich, wrote in a research
note. “On this background, the floor will not be a major issue
anymore as it loses its importance as a crucial backstop against
the franc’s strength.”  ‘Wait and See’  Even with the SNB raising the floor, companies may see
waning sales growth as the euro-region economy edges closer to a
recession. The  European Central Bank  last week lowered borrowing
costs for a second time in as many months and forecast the 17-
member area to expand just 0.3 percent in 2012 instead of a
previously projected 1.3 percent.  Interest rate  futures show the SNB may keep borrowing costs
on hold into 2014.  “The economy is lackluster, the price level may ease in
the near term, and there’s no inflation in sight for a long,
long time,” said Ralf Wiedenmann, chief economist at Vontobel
Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich. “For now, the best for the SNB
is to wait and see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  