-- 
Syms Seeks Examiner to Probe Management Before Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-12-13T23:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/syms-seeks-examiner-to-probe-management-before-bankruptcy-1-.html
Syms Corp. (SYMS) , the discount clothing
chain, is seeking an examiner to investigate management’s
decisions before the company filed for bankruptcy last month.  An examiner is needed to determine if there were any
“breach of fiduciary duty, mismanagement, waste and any similar
claims arising out of the directors’ and officers’
stewardship,” according to court papers filed today in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The investigation should go back as far as June 2009, when
Syms acquired Filene’s Basement LLC out of bankruptcy, the
Secaucus, New Jersey-based company said in court documents.  Syms needs an examiner to determine the validity of
accusations by Esopus Creek Value Series Fund LP, the company
said in court papers. Esopus, which owns about 1.8 percent of
the company’s stock and heads the equity committee appointed to
protect shareholders rights in bankruptcy, has repeatedly
accused executives of mismanagement.  Esopus filed a complaint just before Syms sought  bankruptcy
protection  seeking to examine its books and records, according
to court documents. The shareholder said management failed to
integrate Filene’s into Syms operations and made faulty real-
estate transactions.  ‘No Biases’  The equity committee and the committee of unsecured
creditors are conflicted because of personal interests in the
outcome of any potential litigation, the company said in court
papers.  “An independent examiner will have no economic
motivations, incentives, or biases other than to conduct a fair
and impartial investigation,” Syms said.  Syms listed assets of $236 million, including $97.7 million
in real estate inventories, and liabilities of $94 million,
according to court papers. The company expects shareholders to
see a recovery from the bankruptcy.  Syms, founded by Sy Syms in 1958, fell 3.2 percent to
$12.25 in over-the-counter trading.  The lead case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 