-- 
Syracuse University, Basketball Coach Boeheim Are Sued in Sex-Abuse Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-13T22:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/syracuse-university-basketball-s-boeheim-sued-over-fine-sex-abuse-claims.html
Syracuse University  and its head
basketball coach, Jim Boeheim, were sued by two men claiming
“years of sexual molestation” at the hands of former assistant
coach Bernie Fine.  Robert “Bobby” Davis, 39, of Onondaga County, New York,
and his stepbrother Michael Lang, of Oswego County, who both
served as ball boys for the Syracuse basketball program, filed a
complaint today in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
Fine was sued on Dec. 8 in Pennsylvania state court by Zach
Tomaselli, who said he was abused by the coach as a 13-year-old
in a Pittsburgh hotel room.  “The sexual abuse occurred in Fine’s office at Manley
Field House, a short distance from (and for years, next door to)
Boeheim’s office,” lawyers for Davis and Lang said in the
lawsuit. “It occurred on team trips to other cities for away
games, including when the team attended and participated in the
Final Four; it occurred at a fraternity house on campus where
Fine was a supervisor; and it occurred in Fine’s car and in his
home.”  Syracuse fired Fine, who was in his 36th season at the
upstate  New York  university, on Nov. 27 after he was accused of
sexually abusing the two former ball boys. Onondaga County
District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick  said on Dec. 8 that Fine
won’t face charges related to those allegations because the
claims are too old to prosecute.  Syracuse University  Scott McDowell, a spokesman for Syracuse University, said
in a e-mail that the school is declining to comment on the
lawsuit.  Ted Feeley, a spokesman for the Syracuse athletic
department, declined to comment on the lawsuit. William Albert,
a spokesman for  Harris Beach Pllc , a Pittsford, New York-based
law firm representing Fine, didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment. Fine has denied wrongdoing.  Davis tried to report Fine’s behavior for years, calling
Syracuse police in 2002, e-mailing Chancellor Nancy Cantor in
2005 and notifying both Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and a local
newspaper, according to the lawsuit.  The university started a probe of the allegations in 2005,
yet the investigation was “conducted by a  law firm  that had a
clear interest in ensuring the university’s spotless reputation
and it quickly concluded that the allegations were unfounded,”
according to the complaint.  ESPN Report  Before Fine was fired, ESPN played what the network said
was a 2002 recording of a telephone conversation that it said
appeared to be Fine’s wife, Laurie, speaking with Davis and
acknowledging her husband’s behavior.  After the ESPN report, the university’s response, through
Boeheim, was “swift and certain,” as the coach told members of
the national news media that the men were “lying and just
seeking a payday,” according to the lawsuit.  “Those public, official statements were not just false and
defamatory,” lawyers for the former ball boys wrote in the
complaint. “The statements epitomize the epic, years-long
failure by Boeheim and the university to take even basic, simple
steps to ensure that boys and teens -- who themselves dedicated
countless hours of unpaid work to assist the team that Boeheim
led -- would not be abused and victimized by a man whose power
and influence flowed directly from the basketball program.”  Davis, Lang  Fine began abusing Davis in 1983, when Fine made him a ball
boy at age 11, and also abused Lang, whom the coach met when he
began delivering newspapers to Fine’s home, according to the
complaint. Lang is 5 1/2 years older than Davis, according to
the complaint.  “Throughout the two decades that Bobby Davis observed,
including when Fine was an unmarried man, Fine consistently
surrounded himself with boys, all of whom looked up to him as a
basketball coach at Syracuse University, and who sought any
opportunity to attend games or meet players through Fine,”
Davis and Lang said.  Fitzpatrick said Fine likely would have been arrested if
Davis’s allegations had been thoroughly investigated in 2002.  The lawsuit asks the court to order the defendants to pay
special, compensatory and punitive damages in an amount to be
determined at trial.  The case is Davis v. Syracuse University, 113967/2011, New
York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  