-- 
Syria Gas Pipeline Attacked, State Blames ‘Terrorist’ Group

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-12-13T16:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/syria-gas-pipeline-attacked-state-blames-terrorist-group.html
Gunmen blew up a natural-gas
pipeline near the central city of Homs, in the second such
attack on the country’s energy facilities in less than a week,
the Syrian Arab  News Agency  said.  A “terrorist group” attacked the pipeline near the city
of Rastan last night, causing an explosion and a fire on the
network, without inflicting casualties, SANA said today. The
pipeline transports natural-gas from the al-Omar field to the
Mhardeh power plant, according to the news agency. Gas flows
have been stopped and repair work to return the pipeline into
operation will begin when the fire is put out, it said.  A pipeline transporting  crude  to a refinery also in the
Homs region was attacked Dec. 8, causing a fire and stopping the
flow of oil, SANA said at the time.  Syria  has been engulfed in a wave of protests calling for
regime change since the beginning of the year. The government’s
violent response to demonstrations by pro-reform revolts
elsewhere in the  Middle East  has led the U.S. and European Union
to impose additional sanctions against President Bashar al- Assad’s administration. Some sanctions target the Arab country’s
energy industry.  Energy installations have previously been targeted during
the unrest, mostly in Homs. A pipeline near the city was
targeted on July 29, interrupting the flow of crude for two
days, according to SANA.  Syria, which is trying to halt a decline in its crude
production, pumped 103 million barrels of oil in the first nine
months of 2011, averaging 378,091 barrels a day, the Oil
Ministry said Nov. 22. That’s 2.4 percent less than in the year-
earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  