-- 
U.K. November House-Price Index Increases on Demand, RICS Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-13T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-k-november-house-price-index-increases-on-demand-rics-says.html
An index of U.K. house prices
climbed in November from a four-month low because of an increase
in demand, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge  by London-based RICS rose to minus 17 percentage
points from minus 24 points in October, the group said in an e-
mailed report today. It was forecast to decline to 25 points,
according to the median of 10 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. A separate report by recruitment company Manpower Inc.
showed the outlook for jobs is the weakest for two years.  “It is encouraging that buyer interest has edged upwards
in the face of the endless diet of negative news from  Europe  and
the turmoil in financial markets,” RICS spokesman Alan Collett
said in a statement. “However, a meaningful recovery still
seems some way off.”  While record-low  interest rates  and a shortage of homes for
sale are supporting values, the housing market is struggling to
gain momentum as the threat of a return to recession looms and
inflation erodes household finances.  Prices  will rise or fall by
no more than 2 percent as the balance between demand and supply
leaves the market without direction, mortgage lender Halifax
said yesterday.  Out of the 11 U.K. regions RICS tracks, London was the only
area to record an increase in values in the past three months. A
gauge of price expectations for the next three months was
unchanged at minus 21.  A measure of new buyer enquiries, an indicator of demand,
was unchanged at 7 in November. It was the third month the gauge
was above zero, indicating an increase in enquiries. An index
showing the number of new property listings rose to 10 from 3.  “Prices are holding up, but external factors such as euro-
zone woes and fears of looming recession are impacting demand,”
David Wakeford, a surveyor at Drivers Jonas Deloitte in  London ,
said in the report. “Price drops may be inevitable in 2012.”  Manpower’s report into U.K. employers’ hiring intentions
showed companies were evenly divided on whether they would
increase or cut staffing numbers in the first quarter, the
weakest result since the last three months of 2009. The reading
indicates the labor market is “flat-lining,” according to the
recruiter, which surveyed 2,100 employers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  