-- 
U.S. Business Inventories Rose 0.8% in October

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-13T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-business-inventories-increased-0-8-in-october-as-sales-climbed-0-7-.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose in
October by the most in five months as companies moved to bring
stockpiles in line with demand.  The 0.8 percent gain followed little change in  stockpiles  a
month earlier, the Commerce Department said today in Washington.
The October increase matched the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey. Sales climbed 0.7 percent during the month.  Businesses kept enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at
the current sales pace in October, close to its lowest level of
the year.  Retail sales  also rose in November as Americans bought
more  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and demand for cars improved, another
report showed today.  “We think inventories will add modestly to growth in the
fourth quarter after subtracting in the third,”  Sal Guatieri , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before
the report. “The economic outlook appears to be improving, so
there is reason for businesses to expand their inventories.”  Inventory estimates ranged from increases of 0.1 percent to
1.2 percent in the Bloomberg survey of 47 economists. September
stockpiles were revised from a previously reported reading of no
change.  Sales at retailers rose at a slower pace last month, another
Commerce Department report showed today. The 0.2 percent gain in
purchases was led by autos and electronics.  Retailers’ inventories in October, the only part of today’s
report not previously released, were unchanged in October as
sales increased 0.6 percent. Stores may have boosted orders as
the  holiday shopping season  began last month.  Controlling Costs  Saks Inc. (SKS)  is among retailers that have been innovating with
inventory management systems to hold down costs.  “We’re doing lots of investment in terms of whether it’s
inventory systems” or gathering information on consumers,
Stephen Sadove, chief executive officer of Saks Inc., said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television on Dec. 1.  Factory inventories , which account for almost 40 percent of
total stockpiles, rose 0.9 percent in October, the Commerce
Department said Dec. 5. Another 30 percent of all inventories,
those held by  wholesalers , rose 1.6 percent during the month,
figures showed Dec. 8.  The reports signal wholesalers and factories stepped up
inventory accumulation in October after depleting them in the
third quarter. Further gains may signal stockpiling will add to
growth in the final quarter of the year.  Inventories were reduced at an $8.5 billion annual pace in
the third quarter, after increasing in the second quarter at a
$39.1 billion rate, the Commerce Department said Nov. 22. The
reduction in the July-September period subtracted 1.6 percentage
points from gross domestic product, which rose at 2 percent pace.  It marked the first time since the final three months of
2009 that inventories were reduced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  