-- 
U.S. Oil Independence Beckons as Exports Rise: Chart of the Day

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-oil-independence-beckons-as-exports-rise-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. net exports of oil products
such as diesel will more than double in the next decade from
record levels as slowing domestic consumption cuts the nation’s
dependence on foreign energy, Citigroup Inc. said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how net exports expanded to a
record 920,000 barrels per day in September, the most recent
monthly data available from the Department of Energy. Net
outbound cargo will add another 1.5 million barrels a day by
2022 as output grows, cars become more efficient in the U.S. and
demand rises in  Latin America , said Ed Morse, head of commodity
research at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  The U.S. first switched from net imports of the products,
which include fuels such as gasoline and propane, for several
months in 2010 before net exports pushed higher, staying
positive since the middle of this year.  “Net exports will continue to grow because oil products
demand will continue to decline,” Morse said by phone from  New
York . “We’re likely to see U.S. import requirements for crude
oil shrinking because of higher domestic production.”  Exports of refined products rose 23 percent this year to
3.1 million barrels a day while imports fell 9.6 percent to 2.2
million barrels,  Department of Energy  data show. U.S. demand for
gasoline averaged 9.26 million barrels a day this year, roughly
equal to last year, according to Department of Energy data.  U.S. oil products exports to  Brazil  in September were
244,000 barrels a day, up 53 percent from a year before, data
from the U.S. Energy Information Administration show. Brazil’s
crude and oil product imports rose 23 percent this year, the
trade ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  