-- 
Retail Sales Climb Less Than Forecast

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-13T22:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-retail-sales-climb-less-than-forecast-at-slowest-pace-in-five-months.html
Retail sales  rose in November at the
slowest pace in five months, indicating American consumers were
trying to live within their means heading into the  holiday
shopping season  as wages dropped.  The 0.2 percent gain in purchases fell short of the 0.6
percent median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
and followed increases in the prior two months that were larger
than previously estimated, according to data from the Commerce
Department today in Washington. Other reports showed inventories
climbed in October and  job openings  fell.  Demand for autos, the latest fashions and electronics
propelled the increase in spending last month, while households
cut back on groceries and restaurant meals, showing how limited
job and income gains are holding consumers back. Retailers like
J.C. Penney Co. are pushing discounts to drum up business, a
sign of a lack of inflation that allowed the  Federal Reserve 
today to hold  interest rates  near zero.  “Sales are growing, but they just aren’t accelerating,”
said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New
York . “There have been some real slight hints of improvement in
the labor market, but until we get sustained growth in income,
spending is going to be moderate.”  U.S. stocks fell after the Fed’s final policy meeting of
the year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.9 percent
to 1,225.73 at the close in New York after having been up as
much as 1.1 percent.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.97 percent from 2.01
percent late yesterday.  Fed Meets  Fed policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained
from taking new actions to lower borrowing costs, saying the
economy is growing even as the global growth cools.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of its meeting today in  Washington . “While
indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market
conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains elevated.”  German investor confidence unexpectedly rose in December
for the first time in 10 months, indicating  Europe ’s largest
economy is weathering the region’s debt crisis, a report showed
today. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased from a three-year low in November.  Growth in China  Fitch Ratings  said in a report today that China faces
slower growth in home sales and construction next year as the
government controls lending to developers in a bid to stabilize
property prices.  China ’s leaders, who began their annual meeting
in Beijing yesterday to map economic policies, may decide to cut
taxes to spur growth after already reducing banks’ reserve
requirements, according to China International Capital Corp.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Barclays Capital .  The increase in U.S. retail sales matched the weakest
estimate of 83 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, which ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.1 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the advance in October purchases up to 0.6
percent from a previously estimated 0.5 percent, and September
was pushed up to 1.3 percent from 1.1 percent.  Seven of 13 major categories showed gains last month, led
by a 2.1 percent jump at electronics and appliance stores and a
0.5 percent increase at clothing stores.  Purchases may have accelerated at the end of the month as
spending jumped 9.1 percent per customer to $398.62 in the
weekend after the Thanksgiving holiday from a year earlier,
according to the  National Retail Federation . Sales totaled a
record $52.4 billion.  After Thanksgiving  “We were positive throughout the month going into
Thanksgiving and it only got better from there,” Timothy Johnson, senior vice president of finance at retailer  Big Lots
Inc. (BIG) , said during a Dec. 2 earnings call.  J.C. Penney and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s Kmart chain
proclaimed on the front pages of their websites on Dec. 5 that
it was Cyber Monday, a week after the actual event occurred. On
this Cyber Monday, a term invented by the Washington-based NRF
in 2005, deals ranged from 40 percent off a DVD player from
Samsung Electronics Co. to 80 percent off a children’s
camcorder.  Sales rose 0.5 percent at automobile dealers, after a 0.8
percent increase the prior month, today’s report showed. The
increase was smaller than the rise in demand reported by
automakers, which are the figures used to calculate gross
domestic product.  Car Sales  Car and light truck sales  advanced  3 percent last month to
a 13.6 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the best
month since August 2009, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Sales excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which renders the figures used to calculate gross domestic
product, climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent increase in the
previous month.  Payrolls climbed by 120,000 workers in November, and the
 jobless rate  fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest since March 2009,
from 9 percent, Labor Department figures showed Dec. 2. The
report also showed hourly earnings dropped 0.1 percent on
average, the first decrease since August.  The number of positions waiting to be filled dropped in
October, indicating a sustained rebound in the labor market may
take time to develop. Openings fell by 110,000 to 3.27 million,
the Labor Department said today in Washington. Hiring also
slowed by 110,000 from the prior month to 4.04 million, and
firings eased.  Inventories rose 0.8 percent in October, the biggest gain
in five months, as companies replenished depleted stocks heading
into the holidays, another report from the Commerce Department
showed. Even with the increase businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.27 months at October’s sales pace, close to its
lowest level of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  