-- 
Year-End Spending Measure ‘Hostage’ in Payroll-Tax Dispute

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-12-14T00:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-spending-measure-becomes-bargaining-chip-in-debate-on-payroll-tax-cut.html
A $1 trillion measure to fund the
U.S. government has become a bargaining chip in Congress’s
debate over how to extend an expiring  payroll-tax  cut.  Democratic leaders said they are holding up the spending
bill to force Republicans to compromise on a separate measure
that would continue the  payroll-tax  cut, set to expire at year’s
end.  Passing the spending bill now would let House Republicans
approve their version of the payroll-tax cut and adjourn for the
year, leaving Senate Democrats and the Obama administration with
no choice but to accept it, said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of
 Maryland , the House’s second-ranking Democrat.  The budget measure is “98 percent done,” and the payroll
tax dispute is “what’s really holding this up,” said Hoyer.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s deputy
Democratic leader, said the issues became “twinned” because
his party wants “to be done here and leave -- we don’t want to
just take a piece of it and have people race for home.”  Congress is pushing to finish its work for the year,
including the spending measure that combines nine bills to fund
federal agencies for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. A
stopgap plan expires Dec. 16, and without action by Congress a
partial government shutdown will occur.  Pipeline Issue  Lawmakers disagree over how to pay for the payroll-tax cut,
with Democrats seeking a tax surcharge on the wealthy and
Republicans proposing to continue a pay freeze for federal
workers. Republicans also want to use the measure to expedite
construction of an oil pipeline from  Canada  to  Texas .  Hoyer said inclusion of the Keystone XL pipeline provision
by House Republican leaders is “a clear politically motivated
effort to make this a controversial bill” to win votes of
“their most conservative members, who don’t care one whit about
compromise.”  The House  voted  234-193 to approve the Republican payroll-
tax plan, forwarding it on to the Senate where Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  has said it will die.  “They’re wasting time catering to the Tea Party folks over
there when they should be working with us on a bipartisan
package that can pass both houses,” Reid, of  Nevada , said
today. He said lawmakers won’t adjourn for their holiday break
until they reach a compromise on the payroll tax.  ‘Hostage’  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican, called it “troubling” the spending bill had been
taken “hostage” in the payroll-tax debate. Democrats would
“rather shut down the government than allow this job-creating
legislation to become law,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  Many agencies are likely to face tight budgets under the
still-unreleased spending bill. Though lawmakers couldn’t agree
this year on tax increases or reductions in entitlement programs
to reduce the federal  deficit , they did decide in August to pare
the approximately 40 percent of the budget that must be approved
each year by Congress.  They set a discretionary spending limit of $1.043 trillion,
or $7 billion lower than the 2011 fiscal year total, making it
the second consecutive year appropriations have declined.  Defense Funding  Many programs are likely to see cuts to accommodate a $5
billion increase for the Pentagon, whose $518 billion budget
makes up about half of the measure.  That boost of about 1 percent would be a fraction of the
annual increases the Defense Department has received in recent
years. Over the past decade, the agency’s “base” budget has
grown by 75 percent, not including $1 trillion for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan.  Reid said lawmakers have “six or seven” issues to resolve
in the spending measure, including disputes over Republican
provisions targeting Obama administration policies energy-
efficient light bulbs and travel and money transfers to Cuba.  Lawmakers also are debating changes in the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s budget, as well as restrictions on
public funding of abortion in  Washington , D.C., and needle-
exchange programs in the capital, said Durbin.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said he hoped
his colleagues wouldn’t have to pass another stopgap spending
bill to buy more time for negotiations.  “That would be a bad mistake because the way this place
operates, work expands to fill the time,” said Conrad, a North
Dakota Democrat. “If you take the pressure off, there will just
be more delay. We know how this place is.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  