-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Advance Before November Retail Sales Report

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-12-13T12:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-before-november-retail-sales-report.html
U.S. stock futures rose, indicating
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will snap yesterday’s decline,
as investors awaited a report that may show U.S. retail sales
grew faster in November.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  gained in early  New York  trading as aluminum
advanced on the  London  Metal Exchange. Merck & Co. dropped after
signing a drug development and marketing deal with Japan’s
Mochida Pharmaceutical Co.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures expiring in March
advanced 0.7 percent to 1,237.4 at 12:33 p.m. in London. The
benchmark measure slipped 1.5 percent yesterday as Moody’s
Investors Services and Fitch Ratings said the Dec. 9 euro-area
accord failed to ease the debt crisis and  Intel Corp . cut its
revenue forecast. The March contract on the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,007 today.  “We’re moving in the right direction towards more normal
markets,” said Anders Nellemose, chief equity strategist at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “It’s still a volatile market
and even intraday swings may continue to be substantial as
investors remain nervous.”  A report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  may show U.S.  retail
sales  climbed in November as Americans bought more new cars and
began their holiday shopping. Sales will increase 0.6 percent,
following a 0.5 percent jump in October, according to the median
forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Fed Rate Decision  The  Federal Reserve  may keep its target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent at a policy meeting today, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-
making colleagues meet today to discuss the outlook for an
economy that has strengthened since their November gathering.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  will announce its interest-
rate decision at 2:15 p.m. in Washington.  Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, advanced 0.7
percent to $9.42 in early New York trading.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  rose 0.8 percent to
$38.87 in New York after a union spokesman said workers at the
Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  expect to sign an agreement in a day
or two with the company’s local unit to end a three-month
strike.  Merck declined 0.6 percent to $35.19 in early New York
trading after signing a drug development and sales license deal
with Mochida for a range of drug candidates invented by the
Japanese drugmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  