-- 
U.S. Retail Sales Probably Rose in November

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-retail-sales-probably-rose-in-november-on-holiday-shopping.html
Retail sales  probably climbed in
November as Americans bought more new cars and began their
holiday shopping, helping to bolster the expansion heading into
2012, economists said before a report today.  The 0.6 percent gain in sales would follow a 0.5 percent
October increase, according to the  median  forecast of 83
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Purchases excluding autos
rose 0.4 percent after a 0.6 percent advance, the survey showed.  A drop in joblessness and rebound in stock prices may help
households maintain spending after they set a record at the
start of the  holiday shopping season , known as Black Friday. The
resiliency of the consumer gives Federal Reserve policy makers
meeting today less reason to inject more stimulus into the
economy.  “It looks like consumers have been slowly coming out of
hibernation,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “The Fed should be encouraged the
economy is doing a little better, but it’s still fragile, and
unemployment is still unacceptably high.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of
0.2 percent to 1.1 percent.  Spending during the Thanksgiving weekend jumped 9.1 percent
per customer from a year earlier to $398.62, according to the
 National Retail Federation . Sales totaled a record $52.4
billion. For all of November, same-store sales for the more than
20 companies tracked by researcher Retail Metrics Inc. rose a
combined 3.2 percent.  “We were positive throughout the month going into
Thanksgiving and it only got better from there,” Timothy Johnson, senior vice president of finance at retailer  Big Lots
Inc. (BIG) , said during a Dec. 2 earnings call. “We feel about as
good as we can with the positive performance to begin, but also
the acceleration, meaningful acceleration, we saw.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
recovered from a plunge in stock values during October faster
than  S&P 500 Index . It rose 0.9 percent from Oct. 31 through
last week, while the broader market gained 0.2 percent.  An improving labor market may help sustain the gains in
 consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Payrolls climbed by 120,000 workers in November, and
the  jobless rate  fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest since March
2009, from 9 percent, Labor Department figures showed Dec. 2.  Confidence among consumers has also brightened. The
Conference Board’s index surged last month by the most since
April 2003. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of sentiment rose in December to a six-month
high.  Car and light truck sales also  advanced  in November,
climbing to a 13.6 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate,
the best month since August 2009, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Retail purchases  excluding  automobiles and service stations
may have increased 0.4 percent last month after rising 0.7
percent in October, economists said.  With consumer spending picking up, inflation moderating and
the labor market starting to thaw, the central bank may refrain
from adopting new measures to bolster expansion. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  will issue a statement at 2:15 p.m. with
any updated outlook on the economy.  Also today, a report from the Commerce Department at 10
a.m. may show inventories at U.S. businesses  increased  0.8
percent in October after no change a month earlier, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  