-- 
FDA Won’t Be Held in Contempt Over Plan B Order, Judge Rules

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-14T01:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/u-s-judge-won-t-hold-fda-in-contempt-over-plan-b-contraceptive-decision.html
A federal judge said that he won’t
hold the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in contempt for
ignoring his 2 1/2-year-old order concerning emergency
contraceptive Plan B and that he will review an agency ruling on
the drug.  In 2009, U.S. District Judge Edward Korman in  Brooklyn , New
York, told the FDA to reconsider whether Plan B and related
generic drugs should be available without a prescription to
girls under age 17. The FDA issued its ruling against such a
change yesterday after today’s hearing on a contempt motion was
already scheduled.  “I’m not going to hold the FDA in contempt,” Korman said
today in denying the motion by the Center for Reproductive
Rights, which supports loosening the restrictions. “They’ve
complied in the sense that they’ve ruled on it.”  Last year, the Manhattan-based center, which had sued the
FDA, said the agency failed to take up the issue and should be
found in contempt. Yesterday, the FDA blocked unrestricted
access to generic copies of the emergency contraceptive,
affirming a move last week requiring girls under age 17 to have
a prescription for the brand-name drug.  “We intend to take every legal step necessary to
hold the FDA and this administration accountable for its
extraordinary actions to block women from safe, effective
emergency contraception,” Nancy Northup, president of the
Center for Reproductive Rights, said in an e-mailed statement.
“It has been 10 years of battling to bring emergency
contraception out from behind the pharmacy counter.”  Suzanne Novak, senior staff attorney at the center, told
Korman that the FDA has “refused to give a fair and
scientifically based report.”  Emergency Contraceptive  Korman told Novak to request that he review whether studies
done on the drug support the FDA’s decision yesterday, which she
said she would do.  The FDA originally said it would approve brand-name Plan B
One-Step as the first over-the-counter emergency contraceptive.
U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius on
Dec. 7 ordered FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg to reject the
application by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to make the
drug available to girls under 17 without a prescription.
Sebelius’s intervention was the first time HHS overrode an FDA
staff decision.  Today, 14 U.S. senators, led by Washington state Democrat
 Patty Murray , asked Sebelius to explain the scientific basis of
her decision.  In its ruling yesterday, the FDA maintained its policy for
two-dose generic versions from makers such as Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Parsippany,  New Jersey , and  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) 
of Allegan,  Michigan .  Doctor’s Order  “We conclude that FDA needs additional data to support a
switch of Plan B for women under 17 years of age,” the agency
wrote. “In the absence of such data, FDA declines to initiate a
rulemaking to switch Plan B” to an over-the-counter product for
those consumers.  Plan B One-Step and the generics are currently kept behind
pharmacy counters and are sold without prescription only to
women 17 and older. Younger girls may obtain the drug with a
doctor’s order. Plan B One-Step reduces pregnancy risk if taken
within three days of sex. The original brand-name Plan B at
issue in the lawsuit is no longer made.  Korman said today there was no difference between the
brand-name and generic drugs except the former requires one pill
and the latter requires two.  Age Restrictions  “The FDA would basically make it available to anyone,” he
said. “So now we’re dealing with the secretary, who wouldn’t
make it available to anyone under 17” without a prescription.  In his March 2009 ruling, Korman said age restrictions on
the pill were arbitrary, based more on political pressure than
safety. He ordered it to be made available without a
prescription to 17-year-olds. It had been available without a
doctor’s order to women over 18.  The judge also ordered the agency to reconsider its policy
and decide whether to approve Plan B and generics to be sold on
drugstore shelves without any age restrictions.  In November 2010, the Center for Reproductive Rights asked
Korman to find the FDA in contempt for its “failure to make any
meaningful efforts to comply” with his 2009 order. The center
originally petitioned the agency in 2001.  Plan B was cleared in 1999 for U.S. sales with a
prescription. Barr Pharmaceutical’s application to sell the
pills over the counter in 2003 ignited a three-year debate among
people who wanted more timely access to the drug and those who
argued that it might promote sexual promiscuity among teenagers.
Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , now owns Barr.  FDA Sued  The Center for Reproductive Rights sued the FDA in January
2005 over its failure to act on the request for over-the-counter
sales. In 2006, the FDA granted Barr permission to sell the pill
without a prescription only to women 18 years of age or older.  Plan B One-Step is made with levongestrel, an ingredient
found in birth control pills, and is linked with side effects
that can include nausea, dizziness, changes in menstrual periods
and fatigue.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 05-cv-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 