-- 
UBS, Credit Suisse Dropped From Sustainable Funds by Sarasin

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-12-13T14:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/ubs-credit-suisse-dropped-from-sustainable-funds-by-sarasin.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest banks, were dropped from Bank Sarasin &
Cie. AG’s “ sustainable funds ” because of “compliance
problems” on tax and trading matters.  “UBS is struggling with persistent compliance problems,
raising many questions with regard to incentive mechanisms and
internal controls,” Basel, Switzerland-based Sarasin said in a
 report  today. “Credit Suisse had already been on permanent
watch by our sustainability research team for some time in view
of its borderline rating.”  Sarasin favors lenders that pose little systemic risk to
the wider economy and those with strong records on compliance as
it assesses stocks that can be chosen by managers of its 2.7
billion Swiss francs ($2.89 billion) of sustainable funds.
Sarasin sold the last shares of UBS and Credit Suisse from its
sustainable portfolios on Nov. 3, according to Klaus Kaempf, an
analyst at the firm’s asset-management unit.  Environmental criteria, such as the financing of renewable
energies and sustainable asset management, have a 30 percent
weighting in Sarasin’s bank sustainability ratings. Social
criteria, including business conduct, systemic risk and
corporate governance, comprise the rest of the rating.  Both UBS and Credit Suisse have assets that are more than
double Swiss gross domestic product, according to Sarasin, which
still rates the Swiss banks above JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America Corp. in terms of sustainability.  Risk-averse retail lenders, including Sweden’s  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA)  and  Canada ’s Toronto Dominion Bank are among the most
sustainable financial institutions, Sarasin said.  Relatively Unscathed  “The few institutions that have outstanding sustainability
ratings come mainly from northern  Europe  and Canada and are
characterized by solidity, client-oriented business models and
transparency,” according to the report from the 170-year-old
Swiss wealth manager. “They came through the financial crisis
relatively unscathed.”  Sarasin’s index of sustainable banks had a negative return
of almost 35 percent in the five years through October compared
with a negative return of 47 percent at the  MSCI World Bank
Index (MXWO0BK)  over the same period.  Safra Group, founded in the Syrian city of Aleppo in the
19th century, agreed last month to acquire Dutch firm Rabobank
Groep’s controlling stake in Sarasin, which had 17.2 billion
francs of investment fund assets at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  