-- 
TUI Resolves to Sell Hapag-Lloyd Stake to Albert Ballin

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-13T13:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/tui-resolves-to-sell-hapag-lloyd-stake-to-albert-ballin-1-.html
TUI AG,  the German owner of  Europe ’s
largest travel company, said its executive board resolved to
sell most of its stake in the Hapag-Lloyd AG container-shipping
business to majority owner Albert Ballin.  TUI will tender a 33.3 percent holding in Hapag-Lloyd to
the Hamburg-based group, to which it sold a majority stake in
the container-shipping company in March 2009. The travel company
still owns 38.4 percent and will use a contractually agreed exit
right that must be exercised by Jan. 2, TUI said in a statement.  “Our exit from container shipping was set down more than
three years ago with all partners in the Hamburg-based
consortium,” TUI Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel said
in today’s statement. “In the current year, we have already
reduced our invested capital by 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion).
Exercising our tender right is now the next consistent step.”  With an exit from shipping, TUI will be better suited to
optimize its tourism business with expansion in  Russia  as well
as China and  India , Chief Financial Officer Horst Baier said in
an interview in November. TUI owns a controlling stake in the
U.K.’s TUI Travel Plc, shares of which rose in  London  on
speculation that TUI may seek to buy out the remaining stake.  TUI  shares  jumped as much as 6.4 percent in Frankfurt and
were up 6 percent at 4.02 euros as of 2:30 p.m.  TUI Travel, 
Europe’s largest travel company, rose as much as 3.8 percent to
158 pence in London.  Exit Strategy  “Investors might be speculating that TUI will buy shares
of TUI Travel and might react positively to the fact that it’s
part of the strategy to focus on tourism, but the exit is not
really a surprise,” said Jochen Rothenbacher, an analyst at
Equinet AG in  Frankfurt  who recommends buying TUI shares. “This
option was part of the exit strategy and it was almost 100
percent certain that management would exercise it.”  TUI said it will be entitled to sell “the majority” in
Hapag-Lloyd to third-party investors should a sale contract with
Albert Ballin not be drawn up by the end of September 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  