-- 
UN Climate Deal Should Boost Confidence in CO2 Cuts, IETA Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-13T12:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/un-climate-deal-should-boost-confidence-in-co2-cuts-ieta-says.html
The climate package approved by more
than 190 countries last week should boost investor confidence in
the governments’ determination to cut  greenhouse gases , the
International Emissions Trading Association said.  Negotiators at the United Nations climate summit in Durban,
 South Africa , agreed on Dec. 11 that nations will adopt by 2015
a pollution-curbing deal with a legal force to be enacted by
2020. The new framework will include both industrialized and
poor countries, ending the current legal construction that
imposed mandatory goals on rich nations and allowed voluntary
targets for developing ones.  The deal “keeps the door open to new medium-term
initiatives in which the private sector must have a role to
play, and should to some degree increase confidence about the
determination of governments across the world to limit carbon,
and thus increase the value of low-carbon actions and
investments,” IETA said on its website.  The prices of European Union carbon allowances and UN
offsets are “unlikely to be strongly affected” as the package
adopted in Durban may not be enough for the EU to tighten its
2020 emission-reduction target and stimulate demand for emission
credits, according to the lobby group.  The 27-nation bloc is on track to meet its internal goal of
lowering greenhouse gases by 20 percent below 1990 levels by
2020 and has said it may move to 30 percent if other countries
follow suit. The EU vowed after the conclusion of the UN climate
summit to extend its international commitments under the  Kyoto
Protocol  after the current ones expire next year. The deadline
for submitting new Kyoto goals is May 1, 2012.  Clean Development Question  Investors will “eagerly await clarification” from the EU
if the Durban package affects the eligibility of credits
generated under the UN Clean Development Mechanism for use in
the European emissions trading system, IETA said.  The European cap-and-trade program allows emitters to use
UN Certified Emission Reduction credits generated in return for
investment in greenhouse-gas cutting projects in developing
nations as a cheaper way of compliance with their EU pollution
limits. According to its emissions law, as of the beginning of
2013 the EU will allow the use of new offsets only from projects
in least developed and most vulnerable countries.  “At first sight it might appear, with larger  developing
countries  in effect signing up to an international agreement,
that their post-2013 CERs might again be eligible in the EU
ETS,” IETA said. “But the formidably complex provisions in the
EU ETS Revised Directive do appear to rule that out.”  Pending further information from the European Commission,
the EU regulatory arm in Brussels, “it would seem unwise for
developers to assume the EU is back in the demand game, outside
the Least Developed Countries,” according to IETA.  Market Mechanisms  The lobby group also said that the UN decision to develop a
new market-based mechanism to assist developed countries in
meeting part of their emission-reduction targets or commitments
was “a major step forward,” noting that all the modalities and
procedures are yet to be defined.  “One ominous sign is wording that appears to limit the use
of markets to circumstances where the mechanism achieves a net
decrease or avoidance of emissions, suggesting trouble if the
principle of offsetting -- the only route to private sector
economic value from carbon so far invented -- is intended to be
excluded,” IETA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  