-- 
Hungary Cooperatives Get $130 Million in Loan Refinance Requests

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-12-13T09:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hungary-cooperatives-get-130-million-in-loan-refinance-requests.html
Hungarian savings cooperatives
received requests for $130 million in loans from borrowers
wishing to repay their foreign-currency mortgages at below-
market rates, according to data through Nov. 15 from the
National Association of Savings Cooperatives.  The savings cooperatives have already issued 4.5 billion
forint ($20 million) in domestic currency loans to customers
seeking to refinance primarily Swiss-franc denominated
mortgages, the association said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Demand for forint loans is rising steeply as we near the
end of the year,” Antal Varga, head of the association said,
according to the statement.  Hungarian lawmakers approved legislation on Sept. 19 that
allows early repayment of Swiss-franc denominated mortgages,
which account for most of the loans, at a fixed exchange rate of
180 forint per franc; euro-denominated mortgages can be repaid
at 250 forint per euro, provided the loans were taken out at
lower exchange rates. Losses will be assumed by banks.  Hungary’s competition authority started an investigation
last month against seven commercial banks suspected of cartel
activity after the lenders tightened their mortgage lending
criteria and raised  interest rates  “significantly,” the
watchdog said on Nov. 23.  Borrowers have until the end of the year to notify their
banks that they wish to take part in the repayment plan.  The central bank estimates that 20 percent of a total 18
billion euros ($24 billion) of foreign-currency mortgages will
be repaid at fixed exchange rates below market levels as part of
the government plan, Governor Andras Simor said on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  