-- 
Hungarian Inflation Acceleration Raises Risk of Higher Rates

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-12-13T12:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hungarian-inflation-acceleration-raises-risk-of-higher-rates-1-.html
Hungarian  inflation  was faster than
economists forecast in November as the forint’s plunge boosted
fuel costs, increasing pressure on policy makers to raise the
European Union’s highest main  interest rate .  Consumer prices advanced 4.3 percent from a year earlier,
the most since April, after a 3.9 percent rise in October, the
statistics office in Budapest said today. The median  estimate  of
17 analysts surveyed was 4.2 percent. Prices rose 0.7 percent
from October.  The central bank raised its  benchmark interest rate  last
month by a half-point to 6.5 percent to protect the forint after
the country’s credit rating was downgraded to junk at Moody’s
Investors Service. Policy makers said they were ready to
increase borrowing costs if the outlook for inflation and the
country’s risk perception remain “persistently unfavorable.”  The trend of quickening inflation “supports the argument
for further gradual rate hikes,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-
based economist at Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mail today. “We
expect a 50 basis-point hike in December followed by another 25
basis-point step in January.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Weakening Forint  The forint has been the world’s worst-performing currency
in the second half of this year, weakening 13 percent against
the euro. It rose 0.4 percent to 305.15 per euro as of 11:52
a.m. today, rebounding from a two-week low. A depreciating
forint boosts inflation risks, central bank President Andras Simor said on Oct. 25.  Tax increases, including a rise in excise duties and the
value-added tax, may help boost inflation “sharply above” 5
percent in January, Gargyan said. Policy makers target an
inflation rate of 3 percent.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile food and energy
prices, was 3.1 percent in November. Motor fuels cost 8.6
percent more than a year earlier and consumers paid 5.1 percent
more for food. Household energy prices rose 6.3 percent from a
year ago after a 5.9 percent increase in October.  The government and the central bank need to reach a
“compromise” to ensure that fiscal and monetary policy “don’t
permanently diverge,”  Mihaly Varga , Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s chief of staff, told Origo news website in an interview
published today.  ‘The central bank and, to a lesser extent, the government
need to make gestures and need to strive for a compromise which
provides incentives for monetary policy to help the government’s
growth plans,” Varga said.  Hungarian inflation is “not a key concerns” for the
central bank and policy makers will probably keep the benchmark
interest unchanged through 2012, UniCredit SpA said in a report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  