-- 
Hungary Elects New Top Judges, Ousting Supreme Court Chief

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-12-13T15:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/hungary-elects-new-top-judges-ousting-supreme-court-chief.html
Hungarian lawmakers elected new top
justices as part of a judicial overhaul that will oust  Supreme
Court  Chief Andras Baka, in the latest move that critics say
erodes checks and balances under Premier  Viktor Orban .  Parliament elected Tunde Hando, a judge specialized in
labor disputes and the wife of Jozsef Szajer, a ruling party
member who helped rewrite the Constitution, to head the newly
formed National Judicial Agency. Peter Darak, a Supreme Court
judge, was elected to the newly formed Kuria, a replacement for
the Supreme Court.  Since coming to power last year, Orban has curbed the power
of the  Constitutional Court , written a new Constitution,
replaced an independent Fiscal Council with one dominated by his
allies, created a media regulator led by exclusively ruling
party appointees and chose a member of his party to lead the
State Audit Office. Orban’s ruling party lawmakers have a two-
thirds parliamentary majority.  The U.S. is “concerned” by the Hungarian government’s
measures and Orban should “reconsider” them, U.S. Ambassador
to Budapest Eleni Tsakopoulos Kounalakis wrote in a Dec. 8
article in Heti Valasz.  As head of the National Judicial Agency, Hando will have
the power to unilaterally select judges and court leaders.  Under the new regulations, Baka will lose his position both
on the top court and as head of the predecessor of the National
Judicial Agency four years before his mandate expires.  ‘Unprecedented’ Move  Baka has criticized the overhaul of the judicial system,
saying in a Nov. 3 speech in Parliament that the changes create
a concentration of power that is “unprecedented” in  Europe  or
even during the decades of Communist rule.  Hungary needs a new judicial system as people believe the
system “isn’t effective, lawsuits drag on” and voters are
“dissatisfied with the quality of judicial practice,” Justice
Minister Tibor Navracsics said in a June interview with monthly
public service magazine Kozszolgalat.  Both Darak and Hando, whose election required a two-thirds
majority in Parliament, will have a nine-year mandate.  The election of Hando is a “shame,” as she is the wife of
a Fidesz-delegated member of European Parliament and a family
friend of Orban’s, said opposition Socialist Party politician
Gergely Barandy, according to MTI. Darak lacks the necessary
professional expertise for the job, Barandy said, MTI reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  