-- 
UniCredit Funded $2 Billion for Clean Energy, Leasing Head Says

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-12-13T14:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/unicredit-funded-2-billion-for-clean-energy-leasing-head-says.html
UniCredit Leasing, a unit of Italy’s
largest bank, provided a record 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion)
in funding this year for wind and solar projects, mainly in
Italy and eastern  Europe , its renewables chief said.  Renewable energy funding from the  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  leasing arm
rose 50 percent compared with a year earlier, driven by solar
deals in Italy, said Martin Mayr, its head of renewables. That
may drop to about 1 billion euros during 2012 as government cuts
in feed-in tariffs amid the debt crisis dries up funding, he
said in an interview.  “We expect a major drop in solar projects in Italy next
year because the subsidies have been used up to a large
extent,” Mayr said. “But we expect substantial growth in
 Romania , Bulgaria and  Turkey .”  A boom in solar installations in Italy, now the world’s
second-largest market, led to the introduction of a cap in
subsidy spending in March. Like most European countries, Italy
also cut feed-in tariffs, or guaranteed premiums for clean
power, this year. The  Czech Republic  and Slovakia halted all
support except for residential solar.  In contrast, Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey approved new
bills with tariffs that aim to boost clean energy investment.  UniCredit, which arranged about 1.4 billion euros in
 project financing  for renewable energy last year, is the largest
lender to the industry in eastern Europe and Turkey, according
to the executive. About half of the wind and solar projects in
the region are funded through lease agreements, with the rest
using project finance loans, he said.  ‘Popular Financial Tool’  “Leasing is quite a popular financial tool in Italy,
 Austria  and eastern Europe, particularly for certain assets like
real estate and renewable energy,” Mayr said. “It’s just like
classic project finance but instead of providing a loan, we sign
a financial lease agreement. It’s faster, ideal for small deals
up to 20 million euros.”  Leasing units typically charge the same interest as banks
and have a stronger collateral position because they own the
assets, he said.  UniCredit Leasing provided about 1 billion euros for solar
projects this year in Italy, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and
 Germany . It also signed an additional half-billion euros in
leases for wind projects in Austria, Romania and Turkey. In
total, 600 projects benefited from this funding.  Among these countries, Romania has the most potential for a
boom in renewable energy investment after it approved “quite
generous” green certificates this year, according to Mayr.
Turkey will continue to see investments in wind and is likely to
become a “relevant” solar market, he said.  Further growth in Bulgarian solar will depend on the new
tariff levels, which are decided every July, Mayr said.  Debt Crisis  The debt crisis has hit the Italian market hard, doubling
the spreads for renewable energy projects to more than 500 basis
points, according to the executive.  “Financings have not stopped but not all investors find
projects profitable at those rates, some prefer to wait until
the situation normalizes,” he said.  Eastern European markets haven’t suffered much because they
use Austrian rates as the benchmark, Mayr said. Polish and Czech
spreads, traditionally in line with those in  Italy , have edged
up to about 300 basis points from 250 points and to about 700
points from 600 in most southeastern European countries. Spreads
in Turkey remain at levels comparable to those in pre-crisis
Italy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at   mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  