-- 
Turkish Yields Rise 3rd Day on Inflation Concern, Interest Rates

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-12-13T11:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/turkish-yields-rise-3rd-day-on-inflation-concern-interest-rates.html
Turkish  yields  increased for a third
day and headed for their highest level in two weeks on concern
that  inflation  may accelerate in early 2012 and banks’ cost of
short-term funding may remain elevated.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bonds rose 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage points, to 10.51 percent, a Royal
Bank of Scotland index of the local securities showed. This is
the highest level since Nov. 29 on a closing basis.  The central bank is now focused on inflation, Governor
Erdem Basci said in televised comments to reporters in  London 
yesterday after a meeting with economists. It acted early to
tackle an increase in the inflation rate, he said. Price
acceleration  increased to 9.5 percent in November from 7.7
percent a month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said
Dec. 5.  Inflation has not peaked yet, Ozgur Altug, chief economist
at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mail. “We foresee
that annual CPI inflation will reach double-digit and it’ll stay
there for at least four months.”  The central bank decided to increase the rate at which
commercial lenders borrow to as high as 12.5 percent in October
instead of raising the one-week  repurchase rate , which is at a
record low of 5.75 percent.  The benchmark bond yield could test 12 percent in the next
couple of months. Altug said. “Banks are not willing to
purchase  government securities ” because the central bank almost
doubled their funding cost, Altug said.  Economic Growth  Yields on Turkish government two-year notes climbed to
10.94 percent on Oct. 25 from 8.4 percent at the end of
September.  Turkey ’s  economy  grew at a faster-than-expected 8.2
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the statistics
institute announced yesterday.  “Growth data was very strong, and the central bank is
setting its tone more hawkish, putting emphasis on inflation and
this played a role in the yields’ increase,” Bulent Topbas, a
 fund manager  at Strateji Menkul Degerler in Istanbul, said in an
e-mail.  The lira was little changed at 1.8697 per dollar at 12:36
p.m. in Istanbul, after it depreciated 1.5 percent yesterday,
the biggest one-day slump since Nov. 21, on concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will damp growth in a region which buys
almost half of Turkey’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  