-- 
Verizon Said Not to Have Discussed Making Offer for Netflix

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 
2011-12-13T17:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/verizon-said-not-to-have-discussed-making-offer-for-netflix.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, hasn’t discussed making a bid
for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , according to two people with knowledge of the
situation.  The two companies haven’t held talks about a transaction,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the matter is
private.  Netflix gained 6.2 percent yesterday in  New York  trading
after Deal Reporter, a trade publication, said that  New York- 
based Verizon is considering an offer for the Los Gatos,
California-based movie streaming service. The publication didn’t
identify its sources. Porter Bibb, managing partner at Mediatech
Capital Partners, said yesterday that Verizon may bid for
Netflix or a rival.  “I am hearing rumblings from inside Verizon that they are
very serious about either Netflix or something similar,” Bibb
said in a television interview yesterday on “Bloomberg West,”
citing unnamed people within Verizon. He didn’t identify them.  Bibb said he is not working for either company. Netflix was
a client in the past, he said today.  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, and Torod Neptune, a
spokesman for Verizon, declined to comment on the reports.  Netflix, which offers subscriptions for video streaming and
DVDs by mail, rose 1.2 percent to $76.13 at 11:23 a.m. in New
York trading. The shares have fallen 57 percent this year before
today. Verizon added 0.1 percent to $38.38 and has advanced 7.2
percent this year before today.  Redbox Talks  Verizon has been meeting with movie-rental kiosk operater
Redbox, a unit of  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , in an effort to work out a
content-distribution plan, a person familiar with the talks said
on Dec. 8. The carrier has also met with other potential video
partners and final details for any arrangement haven’t been
determined, the person said then.  “Verizon’s not interested in Netflix, they see Redbox as a
much better fit,” said Sam Greenholtz, an analyst with Telecom
Pragmatics in Westminster,  Maryland , who has consulted for
Verizon and was briefed by its employees about its plan.  Verizon Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam told an
investor conference on Dec. 7 that the company aims to move
beyond its FiOS TV service into the streaming-video business.  “We continue to look at alternatives,” McAdam said at a
UBS investor conference in New York.  Mediatech Capital, based in New York, was formed in 1996
and provides advice to media and technology companies, according
to its website. Its clients include Spearhead Ltd., China
Finance Centre and Xinhua Finance Ltd., according to the
website.  Before starting Mediatech, Bibb was a partner and managing
director for Ladenburg Thalmann & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  