-- 
Vivendi Said to Increase Loan Interest in Concession to Embattled Lenders

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-12-13T17:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/vivendi-said-to-increase-loan-interest-in-concession-to-embattled-lenders.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  increased the interest
margin on a planned 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion)  credit line  in
a concession to embattled European banks, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the transaction.  The owner of the world’s largest music and video-game
companies offered to pay 85 basis points more than the euro
interbank offered rate on the credit line after days of talks
with lenders who rejected the 75 basis-point margin it initially
proposed, the people said. The pricing is a compromise with
banks who last week asked for a 90 basis-point margin.  French lenders, with the heaviest investments in crisis-hit
countries, are withdrawing from regular clients in the
syndicated loan market as sovereign losses threaten their
capital provisions. Banks across  Europe  have pledged to cut more
than 950 billion euros of assets over the next two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks are approaching the deleveraging process in two
ways,” said Duncan Warwick-Champion, corporate debt analyst at
European Credit Management Ltd., the London-based asset manager
owned by  Wells Fargo & Co . “One is simply to not extend new
loans as old ones mature, the other is to make loans more
expensive.”  At $681 billion as of June, French banks have the highest
holdings of public and private debt in  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,
 Spain  and Portugal, according to data from the Bank for
International Settlements.  Club Deal  Simon Gillham, a spokesman for Vivendi, declined to comment
on the pricing change, which was reported by Reuters earlier
today.  The loan will include an upfront fee of 40 basis points and
have a five-year maturity with no extension options, the people
said. Vivendi is contacting banks itself to arrange the so-
called club loan, the people said.  The loan will help fund the company’s business and renew
expiring credit lines, the people said.  Banks including BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Agricole CIB and Societe Generale SA arranged a five-year loan
last year with an initial interest margin of 55 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rank Vivendi at BBB.
Moody’s Investors Service rates it at Baa2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  