-- 
Voters Not Buying Obama’s Bogus Inequality Talk: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/voters-not-buying-obama-s-bogus-inequality-talk-ramesh-ponnuru.html
President  Barack Obama  wants to
spend the next year talking about economic inequality.
Republicans shouldn’t take the bait.  In a speech last week in  Kansas , the president presented
rising  economic inequality  as the defining issue of our time. As
is often true of political speeches, Obama didn’t make anything
resembling a tight logical case. Instead he relied heavily on
caricature (Republicans allegedly want everyone “to fend for
themselves and play by their own rules”) and dubious assertion
(supposedly there are billionaires who pay only 1 percent of
their income in taxes).  But even for a political speech, Obama’s Kansas remarks
were slippery. He never quite came out and said that rising
inequality is the root cause of our economic troubles over the
last few years. He never said explicitly that we should raise
taxes on the wealthy to combat inequality. Or that the Great
Depression was caused by too much reliance on free markets and
too little  government regulation . Or that the tax cuts and
market liberalization begun under President  Jimmy Carter  and
continued through the Reagan, Clinton and Bush years were
mistakes that should be reversed.  Instead he strongly implied all of these things. Unless he
was trying to convey these ideas, his speech made no sense: It
was just an agglomeration of unrelated paragraphs.  So why not speak more clearly? Perhaps because these
claims, made directly, are either obviously false or politically
perilous.  False Claims  Start with the history. Economists generally believe that
the Great Depression wasn’t a cosmic punishment for the excesses
of the 1920s but the result of an inappropriately tight monetary
policy by the  Federal Reserve . Nobody has offered an even
slightly plausible argument that connects the financial crash of
2008 to  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 -- let alone
to  Ronald Reagan ’s tax cuts of 1981 and 1986.  Obama didn’t say that deregulation and tax cuts were
worthwhile ideas that eventually got taken too far and caused
problems. He said that the philosophy underlying these policies
was mistaken and that they have led to a ruinous level of
inequality.  Center-left critics of the president’s speech, like the
Washington Post  editorial board , underestimate Obama when they
point out that the policies he recommends are inadequate to the
scale of the inequality problem. His solutions are politically
constrained. But his ambition, to reverse the last three and a
half decades of economic and political history, can’t be faulted
for timidity.  During his campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008,
Obama said that he would favor raising the capital-gains tax
even if it raised no  revenue : It was a matter of fairness.  That’s the impulse at work in his speech and in the 2012
campaign it effectively started. It’s one thing to favor higher
taxes on the rich on the theory that the government needs money
and they have it to spare. (That’s the case Obama has usually
made, until now.) To suggest that their high incomes are in
themselves a problem that the government needs to address --
which has to be the case if  tax policy  is to combat inequality -
- is something harder to defend.  Republicans haven’t reached a consensus about how to
respond to Obama’s new focus on inequality. Some of them are
highlighting statistics that minimize or deny the increase in
inequality. A few are saying that inequality is a good thing,
the natural result of free markets. Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , the House Budget Committee chairman, points out that
various government spending programs and tax breaks reward
affluent citizens and that reforming those policies is the right
way to tackle inequality.  Voters Don’t Care  There’s no need for Republicans to be defensive about this
subject. Although inequality has long been a major concern of
liberals, most voters don’t seem to share it.  When the  National Opinion Research Center  asked people
whether they believed the government has a responsibility “to
reduce the differences in income between people with high
incomes and those with low incomes,” in 2008, only 37 percent
agreed. Forty-three percent disagreed, and 20 percent had no
opinion. When pollsters ask people to name the top issue facing
the country, almost nobody volunteers inequality, notes Karlyn Bowman, an opinion-research analyst at the  American Enterprise
Institute . “I’ve literally never seen it cross the 1 percent
threshold,” she says.  But if voters don’t especially care about how much money
the rich are making, they do care about how much they themselves
are making. A return to robust economic growth and rising
middle-income wages doesn’t require reversing a decades-long
trend toward higher inequality. It requires improvements to our
monetary, tax and health-care policies.  Instead of talking about inequality -- even to rebut
Obama’s dubious claims -- Republicans should talk about what
voters care about, while pointing out that the president would
rather chase ideological will-o’-the-wisps.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 