-- 
Voting-Rights Laws Must Be Enforced in U.S., Holder Says

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-12-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/voting-rights-laws-must-be-enforced-in-u-s-holder-says.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said he is concerned about new state laws requiring voters to
show photo identification at the polls, entering a controversy
over whether the measures suppress minority turnout.  The  Justice Department  is conducting a “thorough and
fair” review of voter identification laws enacted this year in
 South Carolina  and  Texas , Holder said in remarks prepared for
delivery today at the Lyndon B. Johnson Library & Museum in
Austin,  Texas . The Justice Department also is examining a
 Florida  law that sets new requirements for groups holding voter-
signup drives and shortens early ballot periods, Holder said.  Democrats and Republicans are at odds over voting laws in
advance of the 2012 elections. Democrats say they are seeking to
ensure voters’ access to the polls while Republicans argue more
needs to be done to prevent voter fraud.  Florida, South Carolina and Texas are among 16 states or
parts of states that must obtain permission from the Justice
Department or a federal court before redrawing their district
lines or changing election procedures because of a history of
voting rights violations. The permission is required under
Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.  “If a state passes a new voting law and meets its burden
of showing that the law is not discriminatory, we will follow
the law and approve the change,” Holder said in the prepared
remarks. “And where a state can’t meet this burden, we will
object as part of our obligation under Section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act.”  Voting Rights Act  The Justice Department reviews of new voting procedures and
proposed election maps are attracting attention during the first
redistricting with a Democrat in the White House since President
 Lyndon Johnson  signed the Voting Rights Act in 1965, said Doug
Chapin, director of an elections-administration program at the
University of Minnesota’s Humphrey School of Public Affairs in
 Minneapolis .  Eight states enacted new voter identification requirements
or tightened existing ones this year, according to Jennie
Bowser, a senior fellow at the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  Requiring voters to show government-issued identification
is a way “to make it easy to vote but hard to cheat,” said
Kris Kobach, secretary of state in  Kansas , which enacted a new
voter identification law this year.  “It’s disappointing to see the Justice Department speak
out against these laws when it’s the Justice Department’s shared
responsibility along with the states to prevent voter fraud,”
Kobach said in an interview.  Civil Rights Groups  Civil rights groups, which say the laws suppress turnout by
minority voters and senior citizens, are “pinning their hopes
on the Justice Department turning down those laws,” Chapin
said.  The Justice Department asked  South Carolina  and Texas to
provide additional information after receiving their initial
submissions earlier this year.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  filed a federal lawsuit
today in Milwaukee challenging  Wisconsin ’s new photo
identification law as unconstitutionally burdening the rights of
senior citizens, minorities and other voters.  Holder also said Texas’s proposed state House and
congressional redistricting plans provide too few opportunities
for Hispanic representation.  “The reality is that -- in jurisdictions across the
country -- both overt and subtle forms of discrimination remain
all too common,” Holder said.  Holder called for automatic voter registration, neutral
redistricting, and legislation creating new penalties for those
who engage in fraudulent practices designed to deceive voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  