-- 
Goldberg: Wal-Mart Heiress’s Museum a Moral Blight

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-12-13T00:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/wal-mart-heiress-s-museum-a-moral-blight-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The brand-new Crystal Bridges Museum
of American Art in the small northwest Arkansas city of
Bentonville is the creation of Alice Walton, the daughter of the
late Sam Walton, who founded  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest
retailer in the world.  Alice Walton, who is worth about $21 billion, has achieved
her dream of building a top-tier museum that unabashedly
celebrates American art in the American heartland.  Crystal
Bridges , in many ways, is an aesthetic success.  It’s also a moral tragedy, very much like the corporation
that provided Walton with the money to build a billion-dollar
art museum during a terrifying recession. The museum is a
compelling symbol of the chasm between the richest Americans and
everyone else. In 2007,  according to  the labor economist Sylvia
Allegretto, the six Walton family members on the Forbes 400 had
a net worth equal to the bottom 30 percent of all Americans. The
Waltons are now collectively worth about $93 billion,  according
to Forbes .  The museum, which opened last month, sits in a wooded
ravine a few miles from Wal-Mart headquarters. Two main
buildings, referred to locally as the armadillos, for their
rounded and ribbed roofs, are linked to a series of galleries
that ring what will eventually be a spring-fed pond. Crystal
Bridges was designed by  Moshe Safdie , who is a fine architect,
and his museum in some ways resembles a handsome Scandinavian
airline terminal. It is certainly the handsomest building ever
built with Wal-Mart money. I suspect it is also the only
building associated with Wal-Mart that is devoted solely to
American-made goods.  Eloquent Rebukes  The goods in this case consist of the best American
paintings, photographs and sculptures that Walton could buy. And
given her net worth, the art in her museum is very, very good.
The  collection  is comprehensive and well-curated: There are
Marsden Hartleys and Thomas Hart Bentons, Georgia O’Keeffes and
Hans Hofmanns.  But many of the paintings in Crystal Bridges hang in
eloquent rebuke to the values of the company that has made the
Waltons so very wealthy. Three paintings, in particular, struck
me as especially pointed commentaries on the perverse values of
 Sam Walton ’s heirs.  The first was Asher B. Durand’s “ Kindred Spirits ,” one of
the greatest paintings to emerge from the Hudson River School.
It celebrates the friendship of the painter Thomas Cole and the
poet William Cullen Bryant, who are portrayed standing in an
enchanted Catskill gorge.  “Kindred Spirits,” bought by the Walton foundation in 2005
from the  New York Public Library  for an estimated $35 million,
is,  in the words  of the critic Rebecca Solnit, a tribute to
“friendship freely given, including a sense of friendship, even
passion, for the American landscape itself.”  This painting -- and a dozen like it, including a favorite
of mine, Eastman Johnson’s “Cranberry Pickers, Nantucket” --
celebrate an American landscape that has been systematically
disfigured by thousands of hangar-sized warehouses bearing the
Wal-Mart name. I’ve visited dozens of Wal-Marts in eight states;
each one has been built without a passing thought to beauty. Or
even to windows.  Then there is  Norman Rockwell ’s oil-on-canvas “Rosie the
Riveter,” the iconic symbol of World War II U.S. industrial
power. “Rosie the Riveter” is described by Crystal Bridges as a
“transcendent symbol” of the “capabilities, strength and
determination” of American women.  Living in Cars  This is the sort of description that should give Alice
Walton pause. After all, Wal-Mart’s female employees are not
nearly so celebrated. In fact,  one study shows  that Wal-Mart’s
female employees are paid less on average than their male
counterparts, and are less likely to be promoted to management.  Looking at Rockwell’s painting, my mind wandered back to a
woman I once interviewed, an employee of a Wal-Mart in
Martinsburg,  West Virginia , who was living in her car, in the
Wal-Mart parking lot. This isn’t an unknown phenomenon among
Wal-Mart’s nearly  1.4 million  U.S. workers, who earn, on
average, $8.81 an hour, according to Ibis World, a research
company.  The third painting, Jacob Lawrence’s “Ambulance Call,”
serves as an obvious reminder of Wal-Mart’s unwillingness to
provide basic health-care coverage to so many of its workers.
Lawrence meant this street scene to be a commentary on the
tragically overcrowded Harlem Hospital.  Lawrence, a man with an acute feeling for the marginalized
and the poor, would, I think, be embarrassed to see this
painting hanging in a museum built with Wal-Mart money,
particularly now: Just three weeks before Crystal Bridges opened
to the public, Wal-Mart announced that it wouldn’t provide any
health insurance for future employees working fewer than 24
hours each week, and that it would be raising premiums on many
full-time workers.  The company won’t say how many employees fall into the
first category, but workers I’ve interviewed in several states
say that managers work very hard to keep as many workers as
possible on part-time status.  So how do people associated with this museum rationalize
the exploitation that built it? Incredibly, by denying a
connection to Wal-Mart.  The executive director of Crystal Bridges, Don Bacigalupi,
argues that the museum has virtually nothing to do with the
corporate behemoth just down the road. Apart from a $20 million
gift from Wal-Mart that underwrites free admission, Bacigalupi
said, the money that funds the museum comes from an entirely
different entity, the  Walton Family Foundation .  “Conflating a private individual and a private foundation
with a corporation is a little misleading,” Bacigalupi told me.  Bacigalupi seems like a bright man, so he must know that
this statement is itself a little misleading. The Waltons are
rich because they own about half of Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart has made
them rich in part because it pays its workers as little as
possible.  I’m not begrudging Alice Walton her inherited wealth. What
I am begrudging are her priorities. Walton has the influence to
help Wal-Mart workers, especially women, earn more money and
gain access to affordable health care.  But her response so far to the needs of the people whose
sweat pays for her paintings is a simple one: Let them eat art.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 