-- 
WaMu Shareholders Support $7B Settlement Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-13T16:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/washington-mutual-settles-shareholder-dispute-preventing-bankruptcy-exit.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former
owner of the biggest bank to fail, settled a battle between
shareholders and noteholders that was blocking a bankruptcy-exit
plan valued at more $7 billion, lawyers said.  The agreement, brokered by a court-appointed mediator,
calls for noteholders to contribute $75 million to the only unit
of WaMu that will exit bankruptcy as well as loan the entity
$125 million,  Brian Rosen , the company’s lead bankruptcy
attorney, said yesterday in an interview.  Prices rose this morning on 10 out of 11 WaMu bonds that
traded between 9 a.m. and 10:16 a.m., according to data on the
Bloomberg terminal.  The settlement follows more than a year of battles among
shareholders, four  hedge funds  that hold billions of dollars in
WaMu notes, and the company. Twice WaMu failed to win approval
from a bankruptcy judge for previous versions of its
reorganization plan, partly because of opposition from
shareholders.  Rosen, with the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP,
said the parties agreed to a settlement because they saw WaMu’s
assets as a “melting ice cube” that was losing value as the
case dragged on.  “They wanted to receive their distributions from the new
plan as quickly as possible,” Rosen said. The reorganized
company would be owned by preferred and common shareholders,
Rosen said.  WaMu said in a statement yesterday that the settlement
represented a “fair and reasonable recovery” for equity
holders.  Court Approval  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
must approve the settlement. Details of the agreement were filed
as part of a new version of the company’s reorganization plan,
which Walrath must also approve before creditors can be paid.  “There are still a couple of details to be worked out,”
creditor attorney Edgar Sargent, with the law firm of Susman
Godfrey LLP, said in an interview yesterday. “We think it’s
real. It’s a fair arrangement.”  In return for not suing four hedge funds accused of  insider
trading , common and preferred shareholders will split control of
the new company, Sargent said.  The new company is a reinsurance unit, which was a small
percentage of WaMu’s business. WaMu will recommend that Walrath
award existing preferred shareholders 70 percent of the new
equity and common shareholders the rest, Rosen said.  Both sides praised the efforts of the mediator, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Raymond T. Lyons.  ‘Effective Mediator’  “We had a very effective mediator,” Sargent said. “He
helped both sides see the benefit of some creative ideas.”  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. Washington
Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The parties in the mediation included four hedge funds that
helped negotiate the two plans that had been rejected and
shareholders who opposed them. The shareholders had accused the
hedge funds of using nonpublic information that they gained
while helping to negotiate the plan to trade WaMu securities.  Allegations Denied  The hedge funds deny the insider-trading allegations.
Walrath had given shareholders permission to sue the funds,
while delaying their right to file lawsuits until all the
parties had first tried to resolve their differences through
mediation. That authority to sue would be withdrawn should the
plan be approved, according to court records.  The amount of trading in the company’s notes was the
highest on some of the notes since the days surrounding the
company’s 2008 bankruptcy. WaMu’s zero coupon notes due in
February had a trading volume today that was four times higher
than the average since September, 2008.  The company’s 4 5/8ths percent notes that are due in April,
2014 rose 10.5 percent to 112.75 cents on the dollar, this
morning, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 