-- 
White-Collar Defenders in Demand at Law Firms for Bribery Cases

-- B y   C u l l e n   W h e a t l e y
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/white-collar-defenders-in-demand-at-law-firms-for-federal-bribery-cases.html
White-collar criminal-defense
attorneys may be more sought-after at U.S. law firms than at any
other time in a decade because of stepped-up enforcement of a
federal anti-bribery statute and the Dodd-Frank regulatory law.  There is “greater demand for white-collar and enforcement
partners than any time I can recall in my 20-plus years as a
recruiter, other than when Enron was dominating the headlines,”
said Jon Lindsey of Major, Lindsey &  Africa , a legal recruiting
firm in New York. Enron Corp., once the largest energy trader,
declared bankruptcy in December 2001.  Heightened enforcement since 2007 of the federal Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, which makes it a crime to bribe foreign
officials to get business, and a whistle-blower provision in
Dodd-Frank are driving the trend, Lindsey said.  At least nine of the 67 highest-grossing American firms
announced they hired partners for their white-collar defense or
regulatory compliance practices in the past 15 weeks.  Evan P. Jowers , head of Kinney Recruiting Inc.’s efforts in
 Asia , said he is trying to fill six U.S. litigation positions at
the Chinese offices of six U.S. firms.  The Austin, Texas-based recruiting firm placed three
lawyers there this year, after placing one in 2010 and three in
all previous years, Jowers said. He expects a rise in such
placements in 2012, he said.  “It is only just recently, this year, that I had any
reason to focus any effort on recruiting U.S. litigation
attorneys in Asia,” he said.  Clifford Chance   Clifford Chance LLP in October hired three partners for its
New York office who all once worked in the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in  Manhattan . The 2,466-attorney firm has the fifth-
highest revenue in the world, according to 2011 rankings by the
American Lawyer, a legal trade magazine. The three are Edward C. O’Callaghan, David B. Raskin and Christopher J. Morvillo.  As a prosecutor, Raskin had cases including that of
Zacarias Moussaoui, now serving a life term in prison for his
involvement in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  O’Callaghan led Nixon Peabody LLP’s government
investigations and white collar defense group. Morvillo was a
partner at the white-collar firm Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand,
Iason, Anello & Bohrer PC based in  New York .  In a span of two weeks in September and October,
Washington-based  Zuckerman Spaeder LLP  hired Steven M. Cohen,
 Paul Schechtman , and Andrew E. Tomback. They were also once
federal prosecutors in Manhattan.  In February, Zuckerman Spaeder added five white-collar
attorneys when it was  joined by  Murphy & Shaffer LLC in
Baltimore.  Mendelsohn, Mukasey  Other ex-Justice Department attorneys in private practice
as white-collar defense lawyers include Mark Mendelsohn of Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP and Michael B. Mukasey of
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, U.S. attorney general from 2007 to
2009.  The firms hiring such lawyers want to become one-stop shops
for their clients, which tend to be large multinational
corporations and financial institutions, Lindsey said.  “Firms are looking at this as opportunity to provide
counsel to important clients, and they don’t want to have to
send it out to a specialist,” he said.  An upswing in Justice Department enforcement of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act began in 2007. Starting that year, 117
cases have resulted in  fines and forfeitures  paid by companies
and individuals, compared with a total of 72 in the nine
preceding years.  SEC Cases  In FCPA cases brought by the SEC in the same period,
70 cases resulted in fines and forfeitures, twice the total
number in the 28 prior years, the agency says. The act was
signed into law in 1977 by President  Jimmy Carter .  White-collar defense and regulations lawyers say they spend
less time participating in trials than in avoiding them, through
preventative measures or damage control after someone is
indicted.  “The goal is to not go to court,” Morvillo said in an
interview at Clifford Chance’s New York offices.  The  whistle-blower  provision in Dodd-Frank, the financial
regulatory act signed into law last year by President  Barack Obama , provides added incentive for a company to take
preventative measures.  Morgan Miller , a Paul Hastings LLP
litigation partner, said that companies are hiring lawyers to
create internal control.  Whistle-blowers can be paid from 10 percent to 30 percent
of the sanctions collected if their tips lead to more than
$1 million in penalties for securities-law violations proved by
the SEC. Twelve of 14 settlements this year have reached that
mark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cullen Wheatley in New York
at  cullen.wheatley@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 