-- 
Wisconsin Voter ID Law Imposes Unconstitutional Burden, ACLU Says in Suit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-13T22:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/wisconsin-voter-id-law-imposes-unconstitutional-burden-aclu-says-in-suit.html
A new Wisconsin photo identification
law unconstitutionally burdens the rights of senior citizens,
minorities and other voters, the  American Civil Liberties Union 
claimed in a federal lawsuit.  The rights group filed the lawsuit today at the U.S.
courthouse in Milwaukee, naming as defendants Governor  Scott Walker  and members of the state’s Government Accountability
Board, which oversees elections, ethics and campaign finance.  The  new law  requires a photo ID such as a driver’s license
or other state-issued identification if voters want to
participate in the state’s Feb. 21 primary election. The ACLU
seeks a court order invalidating the measure.  “Allowing only certain types of photo ID imposes a severe
burden on the right to vote,” violating U.S. constitutional
guarantees of equal protection under the law, the ACLU said. It
is tantamount to a poll tax, the ACLU said in a statement.  The lawsuit was filed on behalf of 17 Wisconsin residents
including, it said, 84-year-old Ruthelle Frank of Brokaw, who
doesn’t have a birth certificate; Carl Ellis, a 52-year-old
living in a  Milwaukee  homeless shelter whose U.S. Army veteran’s
photo identification doesn’t qualify under the law; and Justin
Luft, 20, a Milwaukee resident who, while eligible to vote,
cannot get a state ID because he doesn’t yet have a Social
Security card.  Reid Magney, a spokesman for the Government Accountability
Board, declined to comment on the filing.  Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for the governor, defended as
lawful the legislation Walker signed on May 25.  ‘Ensure Integrity’  “The common sense election reforms signed into law this
year by Governor Walker are constitutional,” Werwie said in an
e-mailed statement. “Requiring photo identification to vote
helps ensure the integrity of our elections.”  At least 15 other states have enacted similar legislation,
he said.  The ACLU said its  Wisconsin  lawsuit is the “only active
federal challenge” to a state voter identification law.  An earlier challenge to the state’s voter ID law was filed
in May by pro se litigant Adib Timbuktu, naming Walker as the
sole defendant. No action has been taken in that case since
August, when attorneys for the governor filed papers asking U.S.
District Judge Lynn Adelman to dismiss it.  The case is Frank v. Walker, 11cv1128, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee). The earlier case is
Timbuktu v. Walker, 11cv510, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  