-- 
World Fuel’s Shares Seen Riding Shipping Bankruptcies to 12% Gain: Freight

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-12-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/world-fuel-s-shares-seen-riding-shipping-bankruptcies-to-12-gain-freight.html
At a time when the biggest-ever
fleet of merchant vessels means losses and bankruptcy for ship
owners, the company providing about 12 percent of their fuel is
poised to make record profit.  World Fuel Services Corp. will report a 31 percent gain in
net income this year, the mean of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. All of them recommend buying  shares (INT) 
of the Miami-based company and on average anticipate a price of
$47.40 in 12 months, or 12 percent more than at 11 a.m. in New
York yesterday.  The combined carrying capacity of oil tankers, dry-bulk
carriers and  container ships  more than doubled over the past 15
years to 1.3 billion deadweight tons, according to London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker. While that caused
charter rates to collapse below breakeven for most vessels this
year as supply outpaced cargoes, it also drove annual fuel sales
to a record $130 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “What’s causing shipping rates to fall is more ships on
the water, but that means more fuel to burn,” said  Kevin Sterling , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
 Virginia , whose recommendations on the shares of World Fuel
Services returned 31 percent in the past year. “When everyone
is worried about ship owners and rates, World Fuel can cherry-
pick who they want to deal with.”  Other providers of so-called bunkers tend to be smaller,
regional companies or state-owned entities, and  oil companies 
also sell directly to ship owners, Sterling said. The fuel is
usually not traded by investors. Shares of World Fuel Services
rose 17 percent this year in New York and are at 15.6 times
expected earnings, down from as much as 16.7 in February.  Tanker Index  The six-member Bloomberg  Tanker Index (TANKER)  fell 54 percent this
year, the Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index of 14
companies 42 percent and the 50-member Lloyds List-Bloomberg
Container Index 38 percent. The  MSCI  All-Country World Index of
equities declined 10 percent and Treasuries returned 8.9
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Bunkers are a type of residual  fuel oil , accounting for
about 20 percent of the average barrel of processed crude, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It yields products that are used in
everything from ships to  power plants  to road surfacing.  Fuel oil costs about $6.27 a barrel less than crude in
 Singapore , compared with an average discount of about $9.03 in
the past five years, according to PVM Oil Associates, a London-
based energy broker. Refiners typically make their profit from
products such as  jet fuel  and gasoline. In Asia, their margin on
a barrel of crude averaged $5.28 this year, heading for the
highest annual average since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Maritime Council  Marine fuel averaged $637.26 a metric ton this year, 38
percent more than in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg from  25
ports  shows. Prices are linked to crude costs and local supply
and demand, said  David Wech , head of research at JBC Energy
GmbH, a consultant based in Vienna. Fuel accounts for 70 percent
of ship owners’ expenses on average, according to the Baltic and
International Maritime Council, the largest trade group.  Demand from ship owners will rise 1.4 percent to a record
3.8 million barrels a day next year, compared with 3.75 million
barrels in 2011, JBC Energy estimates.  World Fuel Services is an intermediary between shipping
companies and oil refiners, which sometimes prefer not to sell
directly to vessel owners, Chief Financial Officer Ira Birns
said by e-mail. He declined to be interviewed for this article.  International Recovery Corp., founded in 1984 and listed in
 New York  in 1986, bought Trans-Tec Services Inc. in 1995 and
changed its name to World Fuel Services. The company now
operates in more than 1,000 ports and also provides fuel for
planes and trucks, businesses that accounted for 52 percent of
sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Merchant Fleet  While the global merchant fleet is expanding, vessels are
slowing down to cut fuel consumption as charter rates tumble,
potentially crimping sales for World Fuel Services. Oil tankers
sailed at an average of 8.6 knots last month, compared with 10.6
knots three years earlier, ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average speed of a container ship was 11
knots in November, down from 12.9 knots in 2008.  There are also signs global economic growth is slowing,
curbing gains in demand for everything from oil to iron ore to
 consumer goods  transported in steel boxes. The shipping industry
handles about 90 percent of world trade, according to the Round
Table of Shipping Associations.  World trade in goods and services will grow 5.8 percent
next year, compared with 7.5 percent this year and 12.8 percent
in 2010, the International Monetary Fund estimates. The global
fleet will expand 6.4 percent next year, extending a 31 percent
advance since the end of 2007, Clarkson data show.  Container Industry  Analysts don’t expect that to translate into less profit
for World Fuel Services. The company’s net income will reach
$193 million in 2011 and $214.8 million in 2012, compared with
$146.9 million last year, the mean of the estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The container industry will probably lose a combined $5
billion this year, London-based Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.
estimates. The members of the Bloomberg Tanker Index will report
losses of $1.1 billion, based on analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The members of the Bloomberg  Pure Play  Dry Bulk
Shipping Index will report a combined profit of $293.7 million,
down from $1.48 billion in 2010, the estimates show.  Frontline Ltd., based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , said Dec. 6 it
would split the company, the world’s biggest  operator  of
supertankers, to avoid running out of cash. New York-based
General Maritime Corp., the second-biggest U.S. tanker owner,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  from creditors on Nov. 17.  Baltic Exchange  Earnings for the largest oil tankers fell 20 percent this
year, according to Clarkson. Daily costs to hire capesizes, the
biggest ore carriers, averaged $15,065, the lowest since 2002,
according to data from the London-based Baltic Exchange, which
publishes freight rates along more than 50 maritime routes.
Rates for box cargo shipments from  Asia  to the U.S. West Coast
fell 28 percent this year, Clarkson estimates.  “Volumes for shipping are up,” said Greg Lewis, an
analyst at Credit Suisse in New York whose recommendations on
the shares of transport companies returned 28 percent in the
past three years. “As long as cargoes are moving, World Fuel is
selling fuel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  