-- 
Yahoo Urged by Third Point to Publicize Letters to Bidders

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-12-13T23:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/yahoo-urged-to-disclose-interaction-with-bidders.html
Yahoo! Inc . investor Third Point
LLC, aiming to step up pressure on the board of the largest U.S.
Web portal, urged the company to disclose correspondence with
groups that have expressed interest in making a bid.  Third Point, the beneficial owner of 5.3 percent of Yahoo’s
shares, said in a letter to the board that it is concerned
negotiations may fail to generate the most  shareholder value ,
according to a statement. The letter says the board must act to
reduce the “uncertainty permeating the marketplace.”  “We ask that you immediately make public the letter(s) in
which Yahoo invited third parties to make proposals for the
company,” Third Point Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Loeb  wrote
in the letter. “We assume that Yahoo’s process letters did not
place any artificial restrictions on the proposals that the
Yahoo board was willing to consider,” including prohibiting
bids to purchase the whole company, Loeb wrote.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , is exploring options
after firing Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  in September.
Under Bartz, the company failed to keep pace with Internet
rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  “As previously announced, the board is evaluating various
alternatives as part of its comprehensive strategic review
process, all of which are designed to enhance shareholder value
and promote growth and innovation at Yahoo,” Yahoo said in an
e-mailed statement. “The board’s process is open to all
alternatives and has not restricted the range of various options
or proposals in any way.”  Yahoo shares fell 0.3 percent to $15.42 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined 7.3 percent this year.  Third Point’s new letter follows a statement in early
November, when the investor demanded two Yahoo board seats and
asked co-founder Jerry Yang to step down as a director.  Yahoo’s board has met to discuss offers it received for a
minority stake from bidders including TPG Capital and a group
led by Silver Lake, people familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  