-- 
Myanmar Legalizes Suu Kyi’s Political Party Ahead of Planned By-Elections

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-12-13T10:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/myanmar-legalizes-suu-kyi-s-political-party-ahead-of-planned-by-elections.html
Myanmar’s government granted legal
status to Aung Sang Suu Kyi’s political party in a further sign
of reforms before planned by-elections in which the democracy
advocate will run for parliament for the first time.  Suu Kyi’s  National League for Democracy  plans to submit its
policies and constitution to authorities in Naypyidaw, Myanmar’s
capital, after being permitted to register, party spokesman Nyan
Win said by phone. The NLD voted last month to formally re-
register after boycotting 2010 elections won by allies of the
former ruling junta.  “We received permission to register and we decided to run
in the by-elections,” Nyan Win said by phone from Yangon, the
former capital. “It’s a good sign.”  Suu Kyi’s participation in yet-to-be-scheduled elections
would build on President Thein Sein’s efforts to ease political
repression and end the country’s international isolation.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Dec. 2 she was
“cautiously hopeful” after completing the highest-level U.S.
visit to Myanmar in more than five decades.  Derek Mitchell , a special U.S. envoy to Myanmar, met with
Chinese foreign ministry officials yesterday in an effort to
coordinate policies. U.S. sanctions in place for more than two
decades have left Myanmar dependent on neighbors  China ,  India 
and Thailand, which have poured more than $25 billion into
ports,  power plants , and oil and gas pipelines.  China-Myanmar Relations  “There is no intent of the  United States  in its
relationship with Burma to have any certainly negative influence
on Burma-China relations,” Mitchell told reporters in Beijing
today, according to an e-mailed transcript of his remarks. “It
is not meant to come at the expense of any country,” said
Mitchell, who referred to Myanmar by its former name Burma.  Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  plans to meet with
Clinton before visiting Myanmar later this month, Kyodo News
reported today, while U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague
announced a  plan  to visit in early January during a joint
appearance with Clinton in  Washington  yesterday. Last month, the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations agreed to let Myanmar
chair the 10-member bloc in 2014.  Thein Sein has released hundreds of political prisoners,
legalized unions, lifted censorship of media outlets like the
BBC and held talks with Suu Kyi since taking power 10 months
ago. His Union Solidarity and Development Party, backed by the
former ruling junta, won about 80 percent of 664 seats in last
year’s election.  Sanctions  Clinton said during her visit that the U.S. would discuss
loosening restrictions on engagement by the  World Bank  and the
 United Nations . Other measures leading toward an end to
sanctions, including an upgrade in diplomatic relations, would
occur if Myanmar takes additional steps such as releasing more
than 1,000 political prisoners still behind bars, she said.  The U.S. maintains sanctions on Myanmar that were first
imposed in 1988 after soldiers killed about 3,000 student
protesters, according to an estimate by  Human Rights Watch . A
series of congressional acts and presidential orders since then
have banned imports, restricted money transfers, curbed aid
money, frozen assets, and targeted jewelry with gemstones
originating in Myanmar.  Suu Kyi was put under house arrest before 1990 elections in
which the NLD won 80 percent of seats. The generals later
ignored the results and kept Suu Kyi in detention for much of
the next two decades before her release last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  