-- 
Mylan, CPC Properties, Google, Global Cooling: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-13T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-13/mylan-metso-cpc-properties-google-intellectual-property.html
Mylan Inc.  won an appeals court
ruling in its bid to sell generic versions of  Warner Chilcott
Plc’s (WCRX)  antibiotic Doryx.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said a judge erred when granting an order that bans
Mylan from selling the copy while a patent-infringement suit is
pending. The judge should have listened to some of the expert
testimony in the case before ruling, the appeals court said as
it returned the case to the trial court for further proceedings.  Doryx generated sales of $127 million in the first nine
months of the year, Dublin-based Warner Chilcott said Nov. 4, or
about 6 percent of the company’s total revenue. Warner Chilcott
contends that Mylan shouldn’t be allowed to sell low-cost
versions of the medicine until patent 6,958,161, which covers a
modified coating for the drug expires in December 2022.  Mylan contends that the patent is invalid, and the Federal
Circuit said the Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , company’s arguments
weren’t addressed when District Judge William Martini in  Newark ,
 New Jersey , ruled that Warner Chilcott was likely to win the
case.  A trial in the underlying patent dispute may be held next
month, and the Federal Circuit said the judge could consider
issuing a temporary order banning Mylan’s copy until that time.  The case is Warner Chilcott Laboratories Ireland Ltd. v.
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., 2011-1611, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Warner
Chilcott Laboratories v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., 09-cv-2073,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Metso’s Damages in Patent Case Against Terex Doubled by Judge  Metso Oyj (MEO1V) ’s damages in a patent-infringement case against
Powerscreen International Distribution have been increased to
$31.6 million, according to a Dec. 8 court ruling.  The Helsinki-based maker of process machinery sued
Powerscreen, now known  as Terex Corp. (TEX) , in federal court in
Central Islip,  New York , in 2006. The suit was related to patent
5,577,618, covering a mobile processing plant for aggregate.  In December 2010, a jury awarded Metso $15.9 million in
damages, and said the infringement was deliberate. A temporary
order barring infringement of the patent was replaced in July
2011 by a permanent order barring Terex from making and selling
seven different devices that were found to have infringed the
patent. Terex is also not allowed to import them into the U.S.  In his Dec. 8 order, U.S. District Judge Arthur D. Spatt
doubled the damages.  He denied Metso’s request for attorney fees, saying that
even though Terex “did employ some marginally vexations
litigation tactics,” he recognized that “this case has been
high staked from its inception” and “litigation by its nation
is adversarial and often zealous advocacy can cross the fine
line between fervor and offense.”  Taking that into consideration, he said the defense “did
not act beyond the bounds of civility.”  He asked Metso to take another look at the litigation costs
of $2.8 million they are seeking. He said that while some of the
costs fall into permissible categories, “many of the costs are
for expenditure that are now allowable.” Metso has until Dec.
18 to submit a new bill of costs.  The case is Metso Minerals Inc., v. Powerscreen
International Distribution Ltd., 06-cv-01446, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  Samsung Sued by University of Washington Over Use of NXP Chips  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  was sued for patent infringement by
the technology licensing agency of the University of Washington.  According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Seattle, the university has a license to a suite of patents
for chipset technology developed by Edwin A. Suominen related to
radio frequency receiver technology used in data communications
including Bluetooth.  The university said others have taken license to the
patents, including Broadcom Corp., Erickson AB, Infineon
Technologies AB and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   Samsung products are accused of containing chipsets made by
 NXP Semiconductor NV (NXPI)  that are unlicensed and infringing.  Specifically, the University objects to Samsung’s HotSpot
SGH-T409 and Katalyst SGH-T739 phones. It said it will
investigate during the course of litigation to see if other
Samsung products also contain infringing chipsets.  The school asked the court for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Samsung didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The university is represented by  C. Dean Little  and
 Jonathan Yeh  of  Blank Law & Technology PS  of  Seattle .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  CPC Properties Crabs About Other Restaurants’ Use of Trademarks  CPC Properties Inc., the Wilmington, Delaware-based parent
of the Chickie’s & Pete’s crab house and sports bar chain, has
filed two trademark-infringement suits in efforts to protect its
“crabfries” mark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, CPC registered the trademark in December 2009. The
company also has a second trademark “Chickie’S & Pete’s Famous
Crabfries” it registered in November 2007.  The company has filed infringement suits against
restaurants in Kill Devil Hills,  North Carolina , and
Westminster,  Maryland . In both cases it’s objecting to names
that it claims infringe on its marks.  In a Dec. 5 filing, North Carolina’s S. Myers Corp
responded by saying that it didn’t infringe, and that its use of
“crabby fries” wasn’t so similar to CPC’s marks.  It does business as “Crabby Fries,” and has a page on
Facebook Inc.’s social media site. Despite inquiries posted by
news reporters and fans of the restaurant, Crabby Fries says it
won’t comment on the case.  The Maryland restaurant, New York J&P Pizza, hasn’t yet
responded to the complaint in a court filing.  The case against the Maryland restaurant is CPC Properties
Inc. v. S. Myers Corp., 2:11-cv-00051, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of North Carolina. The case against the
Maryland restaurant is CPC Properties Inc. v. New York J&P
Pizza, 2:11-cv-06731-CDJ, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Chairman Assails Anti-Piracy Bills in U.S. Congress  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  assailed Hollywood-backed
legislation aimed at curbing online piracy, saying that measures
under consideration by the U.S. House and Senate would spur
censorship of the Internet.  Requiring Internet-service providers and search engines to
remove links to websites accused of trafficking in counterfeit
movies and music would amount to “censorship” and set a bad
example for other countries, Schmidt said after a speech in
Washington.  The House Judiciary Committee may vote this week on a bill
supported by movie studios and the recording industry that would
let the U.S.  Justice Department  seek court orders forcing
Internet-service providers, search engines, payment services and
advertising networks to block or cease business with foreign
websites linked to piracy.  “Their goal is reasonable, and the mechanism is
terrible,” Schmidt said during a question-and-answer session
with reporters. “By criminalizing links, what these bills do is
they force you to take content off the Internet. By doing so
it’s a form of censorship.”  Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, has said he plans to hold a
committee vote before year-end on the Stop Online Piracy Act,
which he introduced.  Google, Facebook Inc. and other Web companies said in a
Nov. 15 letter that the House measure and a similar bill in the
Senate would create “new uncertain liabilities” for Internet
companies and asked lawmakers to seek “more targeted ways” to
combat “rogue” websites in other countries.  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, and Representative
Darrell Issa, a  California  Republican, unveiled a draft measure
meant as an alternative to the Hollywood-backed bills. The
Wyden-Issa proposal would give the International Trade
Commission the lead role in fighting foreign websites
trafficking in illegal content and counterfeit goods.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Global Cooling’s Trade Secrets Case Moved to Federal Court  A trade secrets case  Global Cooling Inc. , a maker of ultra-
cold laboratory freezers, filed against a Dutch company has been
moved from  Ohio  state court to federal court in Columbus, Ohio.  Global Cooling of York Township, Ohio, is suing E.G.
Sagittar BV of Doetinchem, in the Netherlands, over an agreement
that included transfer of intellectual property the Ohio company
claims is worth 11.9 million euros ($15.7 million).  The suit, originally filed in Athens County, Ohio, Nov. 7,
alleged that Saggitar had agreed to acquire all of Global
Cooling’s IP in return for 45 percent of the shares in the Dutch
company in the first stage of a transaction.  In the second state, Saggitar would be merged into Microgen
Engine Corp. Holding, with 25 percent of its shares issued to
Saggitar’s shareholders, which included Global Cooling.  Global Cooling said that despite a written agreement
memorializing these transactions, it’s never received any
shares, and it claims that Saggitar and Microgen are trying to
pull the merger together without any involvement from then Ohio
company.  If the merger goes through, Global Cooling said it will
lose control of its designs and IP. It asked the court either to
order the return of the IP or to award it damages related to
their value. Additionally, it asked that the damages be tripled
and for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  On Dec. 5 court filing, Sagittar said state court wasn’t
the proper venue for the dispute because it isn’t a citizen of
Ohio, and asked for the suit’s refilling in federal court. The
Sagittar filing didn’t address the allegations in the state-
court complaint.  The case is Global Cooling Inc., v. E.C. Sagittar BV, 2:11-
cv-01083-GCS-MRA, U.s. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 