-- 
Banks, Retailers Renew Fight Over Debit ‘Swipe’ Fees

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-17T16:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/-swipe-fee-battle-in-round-two-as-banks-retailers-square-off.html
Financial services lobbyists are
counting on the Republican majority in the U.S. House to help
them reopen the battle they lost to retailers over a proposed
Federal Reserve  rule  that would cap debit-card “swipe” fees.  The  House Financial Services Committee  gave both sides a  Capitol Hill  forum today to address the Fed proposal, which
would cap the so-called interchange fees charged to merchants at
12 cents per transaction.  “The idea that Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and the Fed would set
prices in any industry is abhorrent to Republicans,” said Sam Geduldig, a former House Republican leadership aide who now is a
financial services lobbyist for Clark, Lytle & Geduldig.
“Because of that sentiment, we’ve gained a lot of traction on
this issue with the new Republican majority and have a lot of
momentum as we continue to push for legislative changes.”  Large banks stand to lose more than $12 billion in revenue
if the proposal as written by the Fed becomes final. Shares of  Visa Inc . and  MasterCard Inc ., which set the fees and pass the
money to card-issuing banks, tumbled more than 10 percent after
the proposed rules were made public on Dec. 16, amid investor
concern that the caps will damage their business model.  Retail groups representing 7-Eleven Inc. and  Home Depot Inc 
are pushing for the Fed to keep the proposal the same when it
finalizes the rule under an April 21 deadline. The financial
services groups speaking for firms including Visa and  Citigroup
Inc . are calling for a suspension of the rulemaking until a
federal study can be conducted on its effects.  Fed Door Open  Fed officials today left the door open to revising the
proposal. Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , in testimony prepared
for the House hearing, said the rule “may result in significant
market changes.” Citing the “novelty and unusual complexity”
of the rulemaking, she said the central bank would “reserve
judgment” on the final language until all the public comments
were received.  At a separate hearing before the Senate Banking Committee,
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that the bank’s governors are
uncertain that smaller lenders would be helped by an exemption
in the rule for those with less than $10 billion in assets.
Echoing the public comments of some of those lenders, Bernanke
said “it is possible that the exemption will not be effective
in the marketplace.”  The dispute is a result of last year’s Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, which contains the provision introduced by
Senator Richard J. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, instructing the
Fed to cap the fees.  ‘Shock the System’  Retailers who supported the Durbin amendment said that the
reduction in fees will give them freedom to reduce costs for
consumers.  “There is no doubt that competitive market forces will
allow consumers to directly benefit from this reduction in debit
card rates,” David Seltzer, vice president and treasurer of 7-
Eleven said in his prepared testimony for the House hearing.  “I think this initiative by the Fed will serve to shock
the system and break it down,” said James C. Miller, who was
asked to study the matter by the Retail Industry Leaders
Association, the industry’s largest trade group. “Prices will
be lower because as the fees fall, the competition among
merchants will lead to lower prices for consumers,” Miller, a
former director of the Federal Trade Commission and of President  Ronald Reagan ’s Office of Management and Budget, said in an
interview yesterday.  TV Ads  The issue divides two of  Washington ’s most powerful
lobbying teams, those representing financial services and those
who speak for retailers. Both sides have maintained public
relations campaigns through online and newspaper advertisements
aimed at legislators and consumers. The financial services side
began advertising on  television  in the Washington area this
month. In recent weeks trade organizations representing the
largest banks, community banks, electronic payment systems and  credit unions  have mobilized members to contact the Fed and
lawmakers through comment letters and office visits.  “Whether you’re talking about government price fixing,
which is anathema in this country, or you’re talking about harm
to consumers, there are enough problems with this that I would
think both sides of the aisle would pause and want to reflect
and consider,” Joshua R. Floum, Visa’s general counsel, said in
an interview yesterday.  Pleas to Bernanke  Some of Wall Street’s top executives have gone directly to
Bernanke, urging him to withdraw the central bank’s proposal.  The Federal Advisory Council, a group of 12 bankers who
consult and advise the Fed, told Bernanke and his fellow
governors in a Feb. 4 meeting that the proposal “misinterprets
and misapplies” the Dodd-Frank provision, according to a
summary posted on the Fed’s website this week. The meeting
included  Bank of New York Mellon Corp . Chief Executive Officer
Robert Kelly and State Street Corp. CEO Joseph “Jay” Hooley.  Financial services firms said they believe their objections
to the fee-cap are resonating with the new House majority.  “If the financial services industry asked members of
Congress to support legislation allowing a regulatory agency to
set prices on Slurpees or ceiling fans, solely because certain
merchants owned a large share of the market, we would be laughed
out of every Republican office on Capitol Hill,” Geduldig said.
“But that’s exactly what the merchants have done.”  Request for Delay  Byron H. Pollitt, Visa’s chief financial officer, told an
investor conference yesterday that the company is in talks with
lawmakers to delay the proposal.  “Our objective on the Hill and in our discussions with
congressmen and senators is to take a two-year time-out and
let’s put this amendment through thoughtful committee hearings
and discussions,” Pollitt said at the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
Technology and Internet Conference in  San Francisco .  Yet changes are far from certain. In Congress, the
interchange limits created unorthodox fault lines during the
Dodd-Frank debate. Eighteen Republicans voted for the Durbin
amendment in the Senate. Nine Democrats, including the new
Senate Banking Committee chairman, Tim Johnson of  South Dakota ,
voted against it.  The biggest ally for the merchant groups is the author of
the provision -- Durbin -- who is the second-ranked Democrat in
the Senate. In a letter to the  American Bankers Association  this
week, Durbin said he would “vigorously oppose efforts to block
the implementation of this needed reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  