-- 
ABB Quarterly Net Rises 30% on Automation Equipment

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-02-17T16:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/abb-profit-rises-30-on-automation-equipment-forecasts-1-billion-savings.html
  ABB Ltd ., the largest maker of
power-transmission gear, reported a 30 percent jump in quarterly
profit on higher demand for equipment to automate factories. The
company forecast more than $1 billion in cost savings this year.  Fourth-quarter net income climbed to $700 million from $540
million a year earlier, Zurich-based ABB  said  today. Orders rose
18 percent to $8.8 billion based on local currencies. Earnings
before interest and taxes climbed 23 percent to $978 million,
trailing the average estimate of $1.09 billion by 22 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan , who completed a program
he started in 2008 to save $3 billion by lowering sales and
administrative expenses, is fighting price erosion in ABB’s
energy transmission and distribution businesses, and expansion
by Asian competitors such as Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and
Mitsubishi Electric Corp. ABB said today it plans to achieve
additional cost savings of more than $1 billion in 2011.  “Judging from the rather weak margin in the fourth
quarter, the cautious comments in its outlook statement and the
new cost-cutting effort for this year, ABB may face greater
price pressure going forward,” Jana Arndt, a credit analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Munich, said in an interview.  ABB plans to pay a 2010 dividend of 60 centimes a share, an
18 percent increase from a year earlier.  Schneider, Siemens  The stock fell 77 centimes, or 3.3 percent, to 22.41 Swiss
francs in Zurich. Before today, it had gained 20 percent in the
past year, versus a 38 percent jump by  Legrand SA .  Schneider
Electric SA  added 54 percent, while  Siemens AG  rose 55 percent.  Schneider Electric, the world’s biggest maker of low-and
medium-voltage equipment, today reported 2010 profit that
doubled and predicted further gains in sales and margins.  Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, on Jan. 25
reported a 19 percent increase in new orders, and a record
profit excluding acquisitions or disposals of 1.79 billion euros
($2.4 billion) for the three months through December.  “We achieved profitability well within our target range by
leveraging our lower cost base,” Hogan said in today’s
statement. “That allowed us to benefit from the ongoing
recovery in automation and to successfully counter demand and
price weakness in our longer-cycle businesses.”  Siemens, Schneider  ABB’s profit compared with the $701 million average
estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg. A $120 million
charge related to a power-cable project weighed on net income.
The company said its operational EBIT margin reached 12.3
percent, within its target range of 11 percent to 16 percent.  Sales gained 4.8 percent to $9.2 billion, beating analysts’
average estimate for $9 billion. During the quarter, ABB won
orders including a $580 million contract from Svenska Kraftnät
of  Sweden  and LITGRID turtas AB of  Lithuania  to supply a new
power transmission link between the Nordic and Baltic regions.
ABB also received orders for power transmission stations for
Qatar and a contract to link a wind farm off the coast of  Belgium  to the mainland grid.  The Swiss company said today it expects continued demand
growth in all regions for power and automation equipment as
customers build and upgrade power infrastructure and seek to
improve industrial efficiency, while emerging markets will drive
growth.    Asia  Orders  In mature markets, ABB predicts increased spending by
utility companies on power transmission products following two
years of lower investments in many regions. Increased capacity
in the power equipment industry will put pressure on prices for
several quarters to come, ABB said.  Fourth-quarter orders declined 5 percent in Asia as
bookings for power equipment fell in  China  and  India .  Last month, ABB completed the acquisition of Baldor
Electric Co. for about $3.1 billion to expand in the North
American market for industrial motors and drives. Last year, ABB
purchased software maker Ventyx Inc. for more than $1 billion,
spent $965 million to increase a stake in its Indian subsidiary
and tried to acquire Chloride Group Ltd. but was outbid by  Emerson Electric Co .  ABB today named Frank Duggan to its group executive
committee as head of global markets, a position held by Chief
Financial Officer Michel Demaré since 2008. Duggan joined ABB in
1985 and has been responsible for India, the Middle East and
Africa since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 