-- 
Madagascar's Exiled Ex-President Ravalomanana to Return Ahead of Elections

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-02-17T11:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/madagascar-s-exiled-ex-president-ravalomanana-to-return-ahead-of-elections.html
  Marc Ravalomanana , the former
president of Madagascar, said he will return to the country on
Feb. 19 to help prepare for elections after two years in exile,
as the government vowed to arrest him.  “I know the risks facing my return but I cannot allow them
to get in the way of us restoring democracy,” Ravalomanana told
reporters today in Johannesburg,  South Africa . “I am prepared
to listen to anyone. I am prepared to talk with anyone,” he
said, holding up what he said were airline tickets.  Ravalomanana has been in exile in South Africa since being
ousted by  Andry Rajoelina , the former mayor of Antananarivo, the
capital of the Indian Ocean island nation, and the military in
2009. The coup led to Madagascar being suspended from the  Southern African Development Community  and  African Union , and
donors to stop the aid that made up two-thirds of state revenue.  SADC negotiators proposed this month that Rajoelina stay as
president of an interim administration until elections to be
held before November. They said Ravalomanana should only return
once security is ensured. Ravalomanana was last year sentenced
in absentia to  life imprisonment  with hard labor for a February
2009 shooting by guards that killed protesters marching on the
presidency.  The government promised to arrest him on his arrival.  “He will be arrested without any hesitation as soon as he
touches the ground,” Alain Ramaroson, the head of the state’s
defense commission, said by phone from Antananarivo, the capital
after Ravalomanana’s announcement. “An arrest warrant was
issued.”  The government planned to tighten security across the
country to prepare for his possible return, Madagascar’s
presidency said yesterday.  Presidential Jet  The state will “ask him a lot of questions” about illegal
activities if he arrives in the country, Hyppolite Ramaroson,
the minister of foreign affairs, said by phone.  Ravalomanana was also sentenced in 2009 to four years in
prison and fined $70 million for alleged abuse of office
involving the purchase of a presidential jet. Himself a former
mayor of Antananarivo, Ravalomanana was one of the richest
people in the country, owning Tiko, which started as a dairy and
expanded into media interests, food processing and construction.  He took power from Didier Ratsiraka in 2002, following a
seven-month standoff after a disputed election.  Madagascar, with a $9 billion economy, is the world’s
largest vanilla grower, while oil, nickel and titanium deposits
have also attracted investor interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  