-- 
Las Vegas Sands Asks for More Land in Singapore

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-02-17T10:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/adelson-asks-singapore-for-more-land-as-6-billion-resort-runs-out-of-room.html
  Las Vegas Sands Corp ., the world’s
biggest casino operator by market value, is asking Singapore for
more land because it’s running out of space at its $6 billion
resort in the city-state.  “Within 12 to 18 months, we will be rationing space,”
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  said at a
briefing in Singapore today. “We need all the land we can get.
We are burdened by our own success.”  Las Vegas Sands, which tripled in market value in 2010 as
it opened the Singapore casino in April, expects a return on its
investment from the Singapore casino resort in four years,
Adelson said. The Marina Bay Sands has thus far drawn 11 million
visitors and filled 87 percent of its more than 2,500 hotel
rooms this month.  “This is their most profitable operation worldwide,”  Carey Wong , Senior Investment Analyst at OCBC Investment
Research Pte, said in a phone interview today. “A lot of people
probably underestimated the extent of the wealth circulating in  Asia . This could be one reason why they are so keen to expand.”  Las Vegas Sands rose 0.3 percent to close at $48.27 in New
York trading yesterday and has gained 5 percent this year.  10 Times  Las Vegas Sands wants “whatever amount of land the
government will put up for auction,” Adelson said. “How much
more land? How about 10 times?”  Asian demand for casinos will be “unending” and Marina
Bay Sands needs more space to hold meetings and conventions,
said the casino magnate, who also has gambling properties in
Macau.  Adelson also said he’s “seriously looking” at a mini  Las
Vegas Strip  in  Europe  and that he’s building a team for the
project that will cost 10 billion euros to 15 billion euros and
create 180,000 jobs, with Barcelona and  Madrid  as the most
likely locations.  The company isn’t seeking more casino space in Singapore,
Adelson said. While it should have enough room for conventions
for the next two to three years, he wants to double the space
for such facilities, he said.  “The Singapore integrated resort market is still in its
infancy and there is significant potential to grow,” said Aaron
Fischer, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CLSA Ltd. “We said last
year Sheldon Adelson didn’t have enough space for hotels or
other non-gaming.”  Genting Singapore  Marina Bay Sands’ casino, some convention facilities, shops
and restaurants were opened in late April. A second phase, which
included a sky park and 160 meter-long swimming pool atop three
55-floor hotel towers, opened in June, and today marks the
opening of the final structure, the lotus flower-shaped
ArtScience Museum.  It has 120,000 square meters (1.3 million square feet) of
meeting and exhibition space and  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
ballroom, according to its website.  Singapore’s other casino,  Genting Singapore Plc ’s $4.7
billion Resorts World Sentosa, which includes Southeast Asia’s
only Universal Studios theme park, opened in February last year.
Genting Singapore slipped 1 percent to close at S$2.02 in
Singapore trading, trimming gains over the past year to 98
percent.  The  Singapore Tourism Board  predicts the two resorts will
help the island nation lure 17 million visitors and triple
annual tourism revenue to S$30 billion ($23.5 billion) by 2015.
Tourism spending jumped 49 percent to S$18.8 billion last year
as visitor arrivals jumped 20 percent to a record 11.6 million.  ArtScience Museum  “There’s going to be a lot going on as Singapore continues
to increase those tourism numbers,” Adelson said. “Demand is
going to be higher than supply very shortly as the entire
hospitality industry here is running at over 80 percent
occupancy. There is an awful lot of times when there are no
places to stay.”  The casinos helped Singapore’s economy expand 14.5 percent
in 2010, which probably made the city of 5 million people the
fastest growing in the world after Qatar, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  The ArtScience Museum, designed by Moshe Safdie, has three
floors of gallery space and marquee exhibitions curated by
various museums. Safdie also designed the Marina Bay Sands
resort, Habitat 67 in  Montreal ,  Quebec , and terminal three of
Ben Gurion International Airport in  Israel .    Lion King   The  Walt Disney Co . musical “The Lion King,” previously
delayed because the theater wasn’t ready, will start showing
next month, Adelson said.  Singapore’s two casinos opened last year after a four-
decade ban was lifted to help boost tourism revenue and shed
what Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called an “unexciting
image.”  They contributed S$420 million in net revenue to the city-
state during the April to November 2010 period, according to
government and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP forecasts. Both
casinos may have a combined $5.5 billion this year, according to
the estimates. The government  imposes  a 5 percent tax on revenue
from “premium players” and 15 percent on mass-market gamblers.  “Singapore for us has opened up a new market for Southeast
Asia that most people did not understand existed,” Adelson
said. “There were a lot of skeptical analysts and money
managers that said ‘Are you sure there is enough demand to meet
two casinos?’ The answer is, for the youngest person in this
audience, for the rest of their life, there will never be a
saturation of the potential market in this part of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  