-- 
Airbus Breaches Closed Japanese Market With Skymark A380 Order

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-18T10:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/airbus-wins-order-for-a380s-from-japanese-budget-carrier-skymark.html
Airbus SAS won a firm order from  Skymark Airlines Inc . for four A380 superjumbos, giving the
European planemaker a toehold in a national market that’s
been largely closed to it for decades.  Skymark, a discount competitor to Japan’s biggest
carriers, Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co.,
will use the double-decker Airbus to connect Tokyo with
London, Paris and  Frankfurt , Chief Executive Officer Shinichi Nishikubo said in an exclusive interview in Toulouse,  France .  Airbus and Boeing have a duopoly in the global market
for large aircraft, with the European planemaker having a
slight lead in deliveries since 2003. New carriers in Japan
provide an opportunity for Airbus to boost its market share,
currently less than 3 percent, and challenge Boeing’s
dominance. Airbus last got an order in Japan in early 2006,
when ANA placed an order for three A320s, and two leased
versions of the plane.  “This is a big deal for Airbus to get an order like
this, especially with the A380,” said Paul Sheridan, an
analyst for Ascend, a London-based aviation advisory company.  Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautics, Defence & Space
Co., had targeted Japan as a key market for A380s since it
began marketing the superjumbo in the late 1990s, though
neither JAL nor ANA has ordered the plane. The A380 has begun
making regular appearances in Tokyo with airlines including
Singapore Airlines Ltd.,  Air France-KLM  and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG. Emirates, the largest customer for the A380,
has also talked about putting A380s onto routes into Japan.  Competition  John Leahy, chief operating officer at Airbus, said
Japan has been the one market where he has failed since
becoming head of sales in 1994, and that only with new
carriers can Airbus finally hope to build its share in the
market.  “We’ve been frustrated with the situation in Japan,”
said Leahy in an interview on Feb. 16. “Both JAL and ANA are
very traditional, and don’t necessarily support competition.
They’ve always bought Boeing planes and don’t see any reason
not to continue. But to the degree that the market opens up
and independent operators begin putting risk-capital at work
in Japan, you’ll see them having free and open competition.”  Japan hasn’t been considered a viable market for a low-
cost carrier in the past because of the high costs of both
labor and infrastructure, Sheridan said today. The same was
said of  India , yet low-cost operators have flourished there,
and the same could happen to Japan, he said, citing the
emergence of ANA’s now low-cost affiliate A&F Aviation as
well as Fuji Dream Airlines.  “We’re happy to have our first breakthrough with
Skymark,” said  Tom Enders , CEO of Airbus in an interview.
“This deal will leave absolutely leave a mark in the
Japanese skies.”  Enders said Airbus is also keen to develop more
industrial partners in Japan, a country where aerospace
contractors generally work for Boeing. Japanese companies
supply 30 percent of the structure for Boeing’s 787, though
declined Airbus’s offer to take an 8 percent share in its
A380, taking less than half that instead.  Low Fare Approach  Skymark CEO Nishikubo said his airline is a low-fare one.  “It’s the same for all airlines in Japan, that landing
fees are high and fuel-taxes are high,” Nishikubo said.  Skymark dropped 2 percent to 1,332 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo trading. The shares have gained about 41
percent since the carrier in November announced the A380
orders, after tripling in 2010.  Earlier this week A&F said it would lease 10 Airbus
A320s from General Electric Co.’s Gecas to tap regional
demand for leisure travel including in  China , with plans to
start flights next year.  The Skymark CEO said he had also considered buying
Boeing 777s and the company used Boeing 747s from JAL, yet
opted for the A380 because it was more efficient.  “We’re looking to fly airplanes in long-haul
international markets serving London and Paris,” said the
CEO. “In Japan, tickets for business class are very
expensive. Right now for example the fares between London and
Tokyo round trip is 700,000 yen ($8,400). We’re aiming at
half that price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 