-- 
Senate Agrees to Add Flights to Washington From Western U.S.

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-02-17T20:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/airlines-win-senate-backing-to-add-more-washington-flights-to-western-u-s-.html
The  U.S. Senate  agreed to add 16
daily round-trip  flights  between Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport and the western U.S., settling a dispute that
helped delay an aviation funding bill for more than three years.  The agreement announced by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a
Texas Republican, clears the way for approval as early as today
of a $34.6 billion bill to fund the Federal Aviation
Administration for two years. There are currently 12 flights
between the airport and the western U.S.  “We do now have a breakthrough and a way forward,”
Hutchison said on the Senate floor. The deal is not complete
because senators must agree during a House-Senate conference
committee later this year on how the government will decide
which cites in the western U.S. will get the new flights.  The Senate plan also needs to be reconciled with House
lawmakers’ views. The House version of the FAA legislation
approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee yesterday allows just five additional flights linking
Reagan and the western U.S.  The number of long-distance flights to Reagan National has
been limited since 1966 due to noise concerns, and to bolster
growth at Washington Dulles International Airport. The limit
adopted by Congress in 1986 allows 12 flights beyond a perimeter
that splits the U.S. into eastern and western segments.  Cities that now get the flights include Denver with four,
Phoenix with three, Seattle with two, and one each at Salt Lake
City, Las Vegas and  Los Angeles .  Carriers with those flights include  US Airways Group Inc .
with four,  Alaska Air Group Inc . and  Republic Airways Holdings
Inc .’s Frontier Airlines with three each, and  Delta Air Lines
Inc . and  United Continental Holdings Inc . and with one each.  The agreement described by Hutchison allows carriers with
seven flights from Reagan to cities within the perimeter to
instead move them to cities outside the boundary. Five new
beyond-perimeter flights would be added for carriers with little
or no service to Reagan. Four would be added sometime later if
studies show they would not add to congestion, Hutchison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 