-- 
Akzo Nobel Profit Beats Analyst Estimates, Driven by Specialty Chemicals

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-02-17T06:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/akzo-nobel-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-driven-by-specialty-chemicals.html
  Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s biggest
paintmaker, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates, driven by paint demand in Asia and sales of polymers
and personal-care ingredients.  Net income was 162 million euros ($219 million), or 69
cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of 60 million
euros, or 26 cents, the Amsterdam-based manufacturer said in a
statement. Analysts predicted profit of 66 million euros,
according to the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Akzo is bolstering its specialty-chemicals division as its
mainstay paints business struggles against a construction
slowdown and the rising cost of raw materials, including
titanium dioxide. Chief Executive Officer Hans Wijers forecast
raw-material prices will rise further in 2011, offset by cost
reductions and prices.  “Akzo Nobel expects to make further progress on its
medium-term strategic ambitions,” the company said in the
statement. The company is aiming for more than 5 percent revenue
and earnings growth in 2011.  Akzo has gained almost 5 percent in Amsterdam trading this
year, valuing the Dutch maker of Dulux and Glidden paints at
more than 11 billion euros. That’s in line with U.S. rival  PPG
Industries Inc . The shares of  Sherwin-Williams Co . are little
changed, valuing the Cleveland-based competitor at about $9.2
billion.  Inflation  Rising supply costs have increased pressure on paintmakers
to raise their prices at a time when construction is making a
stuttering recovery from the financial crisis. Data from the
U.S. Commerce Department yesterday showed a drop in single-
family housing starts, offset by a surge in new construction of
multifamily units.  Any growth in the U.S. decorative-paint market will
probably be “slow and erratic,” Sherwin-Williams CEO
Christopher Connor predicted Jan. 25. His company’s fourth-
quarter earnings beat estimates.  Western paintmakers are seeking expansion in emerging
markets, where  government spending  on infrastructure and gross
domestic product growth have proved resilient amid a wider
global slump. PPG said last month that a non-decorative paint
joint venture with Asian Paints Ltd. of  India  will be expanded.  For Akzo Nobel, revenue from Asia surged 34 percent in the
fourth quarter, even as growth in  China  moderated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  