-- 
Galleon, JPMorgan, Commerzbank, UBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-17T12:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/allstate-galleon-commerzbank-ubs-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
The insider-trading trial of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam next month is the
culmination of U.S. investigations dating back 12 years that
involved blind alleys, anonymous tips, wiretaps and a trip into
the Tamil Tiger underworld before prosecutors got their man,
Bloomberg News’ Patricia Hurtado reports.  Rajaratnam, 53, stands accused by Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  of leading an insider-trading conspiracy that
earned his fund about $45 million. He has pleaded not guilty.  Testimony at a four-day hearing in October to consider the
admissibility of wiretaps showed what evidence the U.S. is
likely to rely on at trial, set for March 8, as well as much of
the inside story of how investigators cracked the case.  The government began pursuing the Sri Lankan-born
Rajaratnam as long ago as 1999. Federal prosecutors in
California and New York, as well the Securities and Exchange
Commission, would eventually carry out what became the largest
insider-trading probe of hedge funds. To date, at least 26
people have been charged; 19 have pleaded guilty.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it considered
placing an undercover agent inside the New York-based Galleon
firm, before opting instead to tap his phones because it had no
viable candidate. The case was woven from other threads,
including a former  Intel Corp . employee’s confessions; a 2006
regulatory probe of his brother Rengan, instant messages from
Rajaratnam; and a March 2007 anonymous letter to the SEC.  Jim McCarthy, a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Allstate Sues JPMorgan Over Mortgage-Backed Securities    Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, sued JPMorgan Chase & Co. alleging the bank
fraudulently sold residential mortgage-backed securities.  Allstate, based in Northbrook, Illinois, bought more than
$700 million of the securities from JPMorgan and other
defendants, including WaMu Asset Acceptance Corp. and Bear
Stearns Asset Backed Securities LLC, according to the lawsuit
filed Feb. 15 in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Allstate was made to believe it was buying highly rated,
safe securities,” according to the complaint. “Defendants knew
the pool was a toxic mix of loans given to borrowers that could
not afford the properties and thus were highly likely to
default.”  A spokeswoman at New York-based JPMorgan, Jennifer
Zuccarelli, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Allstate Bank v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
650398/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  NYSE Euronext Sued Over Deutsche Boerse Takeover  NYSE Euronext, the parent company of the New York Stock
Exchange, was sued by a shareholder seeking to block its planned
$9.53 billion sale to  Deutsche Boerse AG , a deal that would
create the world’s largest owner of equities and derivatives
markets.  The all-stock transaction is “grossly inadequate” and
resulted from a flawed process, lawyers for shareholder Samuel
T. Cohen claimed in the complaint made public yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. The proposed sale values
NYSE at less than targets in similar deals, such as  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc ’s purchase of Canada’s TMX Group Inc.,
according to the lawsuit.  “There appears to have been no sales process, and the
proposed transaction did not emerge from an auction,” Cohen’s
lawyers said in the complaint. “A board that provides a would-
be acquirer with an exclusive opportunity to bid on a company
and fails to conduct a market-check, does not act in the
interests of shareholders.”  Ray Pellecchia, a spokesman for New York-based  NYSE
Euronext , had no immediate comment on the complaint.  The deal, announced Fe. 15, would give Deutsche Boerse 60
percent of the combined entity. Deutsche Boerse, which runs the
Eurex futures platform and Frankfurt Stock Exchange, is swapping
one share of its own stock for one share in the company, while
every NYSE Euronext share will be converted into 0.47 share, the
companies said in a statement.  The case is Cohen v. NYSE Euronext, CA6198, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Stanford Brokers Claim Receiver Mismanaged Firm Fate  R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver was
countersued by a group of the indicted financier’s securities
brokers, who allege the receiver mismanaged the firm, causing
them $100 million in damages.  The securities brokers, who were affiliated with Stanford
Group Co., allege receiver Ralph Janvey destroyed the company’s
value by barring the brokers from contacting clients,
interfering with their abilities to get new jobs and allegedly
failing to accept a $500 million offer for the business.  “Janvey ignored the recommendation of his industry
consultant,” the brokers said in a Dallas federal court filing
yesterday. The unnamed suitor “eventually gave up.”  Stanford Group Co. was one of the businesses Janvey was
appointed by the court to operate two years ago when the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission sued Stanford for allegedly
running a $7 billion investment fraud scheme.  Stanford has denied the SEC’s allegations as well as those
contained in a 21-count indictment returned by a Houston grand
jury in 2009. He is being held without bail awaiting trial.  The receivership has sued 329 former Stanford employees,
seeking to recoup $265 million, including $114 million in
commissions earned selling allegedly fraudulent certificates of
deposit issued by the Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd.  Janvey’s outside counsel, attorney Kevin Sadler, said the
countersuit wasn’t unexpected. Their claim the securities firm
could be sold “is something that defies logic, common sense and
the facts under these circumstances,” he said in a phone
interview.  The case is Janvey v. Alguire, 3:09-cv-00724, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Rajaratnam May Be Guilty of Conspiracy Without Trade  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam can be
convicted of joining in an insider trading conspiracy even if he
didn’t trade in particular stocks, a prosecutor said at a
pretrial hearing in Manhattan.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told U.S. District
Judge  Richard Holwell  yesterday that prosecutors can prove
Rajaratnam “violated the conspiracy law” merely by taking a
single act to further an illegal scheme. He needn’t have made an
actual trade, he said.  The argument came as Holwell denied requests from
Rajaratnam’s lawyers to exclude certain testimony that
prosecutors plan to offer at the March 8 trial. Prosecutors may
present proof of illegal trades in 35 stocks and portions of 173
wiretap recordings that may be vague or don’t explicitly refer
to an insider-trading scheme, the judge said.  “It’s the agreement that’s the nub” in an insider trading
conspiracy, and not the actual illegal trades, Holwell said.  Rajaratnam faces five counts of conspiracy and nine counts
of insider trading. To prove insider trading, prosecutors will
have to show actual trades. He denies wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Commerzbank Asks to Dismiss U.K. Banker Bonus Lawsuits    Commerzbank AG  asked a London appeals court to dismiss a
lawsuit from 104 current and former bankers at its Dresdner
Kleinwort unit in the largest U.K. bonus dispute stemming from
the financial crisis.  The bankers, who are seeking as much as 50 million euros
($67 million), also asked the appeals court to overturn a
decision from May that dismissed part of their case. That ruling
prevents them from using any evidence prior to a December 2008
letter to staff of the investment bank regarding their bonuses.  “There are a number of aspects of this case that require
all of the evidence possible,” a lawyer for the bankers, Andrew
Hochhauser said at a hearing yesterday. “It requires a proper
trial of the issues rather than summary disposal of them.”  Lawyers for Commerzbank have said the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . and its affect on the financial markets
made it impractical for the bank to pay what it considered to be
discretionary bonuses. The bankers say they were paid a 10th of
what they were owed in a contract with Dresdner before it was
acquired by Commerzbank.  “Our position is that it was not appropriate for us to
provide large sums in bonuses for employees of a unit that had
lost catastrophically large sums of money,” said Jonathan
Sumption, a lawyer for the bank. “Our position is not that we
could not afford it.”  The case is The Parties Named in Schedule A v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Ltd. & anr, U.K. Court of Appeal, A2/2010/1599.  Judge Orders Hearing Into U.S. Wiretaps of Trader Drimal  A federal prosecutor will take the witness stand when a
judge weighs whether the government properly recorded telephone
conversations between former Galleon Group LLC trader Craig
Drimal and his wife.  Drimal is among five men who face a May trial for trading
with inside information. U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan
yesterday ordered a hearing on March 9 into whether the
prosecutors who secretly taped Drimal’s phone conversations
“demonstrated a high regard” for Drimal’s privacy rights by
not listening into conversations between him and his wife.  The judge previously ruled that Drimal’s other phone
conversations may be admitted into evidence.  “The court expects to hear testimony from the agents who
monitored” more than a dozen taped phone calls, Sullivan said
in a one-page order. “The court also expects to hear testimony
from the Assistant U.S. Attorney who supervised the agents.”  Drimal and the other defendants, who all deny any
wrongdoing, face charges in an insider-trading case involving
Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Also charged are
traders Zvi Goffer, Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman and
lawyer Jason Goldfarb.    Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara,
declined to comment. Drimal’s lawyer, Jane Anne Murray, didn’t
immediately return a call.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Starr Lawyer Says Restitution Deal Reached With U.S.    Kenneth I. Starr , the money manager who admitted to
defrauding his celebrity clients of as much as $50 million, has
reached a restitution agreement with the U.S. government, his
lawyer said in a letter to a federal judge.  The amount to be repaid to the victims wasn’t specified in
the Feb. 8 letter from Flora Edwards to U.S. District Judge
Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan. Starr, who pleaded guilty in
September to wire fraud, money laundering and investment adviser
fraud, faces 121 to 151 months in prison when he’s sentenced
March 2.  “We’re filing a letter next week that sets down the
details of the restitution agreement,” Ellen Davis, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, said in a telephone
interview. Victims will have until April 4 to submit documents
related to their losses, she said.  Starr, 67, was arrested in May and accused of defrauding
clients including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon. Actors
Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes were also clients. Edwards
and the government agreed, for sentencing purposes, that the
amount lost in the fraud totaled from $20 million to $50
million.  At a hearing yesterday, Assistant U.S. Attorney William
Harrington told Scheindlin that some of Starr’s victims are
entitled to more than they are promised in the restitution
agreement, the New York Post reported. The judge said she would
give victims as long as 30 days after the sentencing date to
file objections to the deal, the Post said.  According to a Dec. 22 court document, there were nine
victims of Starr’s fraud, owed $47 million. Three of the victims
were repaid a total $11.5 million, leaving a balance of $35.5
million, “much of which is contested.”  Edwards didn’t return messages seeking comment.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 10-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The civil suit
is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-CV-04270, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Billionaire Ho Files New Suit to Regain Casino Stake  Billionaire Stanley Ho filed a new lawsuit against some
family members to regain control of his assets, extending a
three-week public dispute over Asia’s biggest casino company.  A  writ  filed yesterday in Hong Kong’s High Court by law
firm Oldham, Li & Nie accuses Ho’s daughters Pansy Ho and Daisy
Ho of seizing the tycoon’s holding in Sociedade de Turismo e
Diversoes de Macau SA. Yesterday’s complaint follows a Jan. 26
lawsuit that was withdrawn after an oral agreement by them to
return the stake, according to the new claim.  The 89-year-old who built his casino business with a four-
decade monopoly in Macau is embroiled in a family feud over a
stake that’s worth at least HK$11.2 billion ($1.44 billion)
based on yesterday’s prices of listed arm  SJM Holdings Ltd .
 Videos  shown by his lawyer Gordon Oldham on Jan. 31 showed the
patriarch saying Pansy Ho and other family members took his
holdings without his consent and that he’d been forced to make a
televised statement saying the dispute was over.  The new writ again seeks an order declaring that the
transfer of Ho’s interest in Lanceford Co., which holds a 31.7
percent of closely held STDM was made without his approval.
STDM, with stakes in gambling, hotels and the former Portuguese
colony’s airline, owns 56 percent of SJM, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pansy and Daisy Ho “improperly and/or illegally”
transferred 99.98 percent of Lanceford’s shares to a company
they control along with their siblings and another controlled by
Chan Un-chan, whom Ho refers to as his third wife, according to
the writ.  Joseph Lo, an external spokesman for Lanceford at Brunswick
Group, declined to comment in a phone interview.  The case is Dr. Stanley Ho v. Ho Chiu King, Pansy,
HCA268/2011, High Court of Hong Kong.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Milan Assumed UBS, JPMorgan Did Swaps for Free, Witness Says  The City of Milan assumed banks that sold it derivatives,
and later restructured the contracts, did so for free, a former
city finance official testified at a trial where four firms face
fraud charges.  Angela Casiraghi, a witness for the prosecution, told a
court in Milan yesterday that she believed a commission of 0.01
percent paid to the banks for a 1.7 billion-euro ($2.3 billion)
bond sale in 2005 covered both the securities sale and the swaps
that adjusted payments on the borrowings.    Deutsche Bank AG , Depfa Bank Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  UBS AG  are accused of misleading Milan into thinking they could
save the city about 55 million euros by selling the bonds and
related derivatives and earning 101 million euros in hidden
fees. The banks deny the charges.  Officials for Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and UBS declined to
comment on yesterday’s testimony. Officials for Depfa didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail.  Casiraghi said the city considered the swaps part of the
bond sale. She said the city assumed that the banks restructured
the derivatives in subsequent years for free.  Asked whether city officials had discussed why the firms
might be working for nothing, Casiraghi said she thought the
banks were acting in their capacity as advisers to the
municipality.  “To this day I cannot come to terms” with the fact that
there may have been fraudulent activity, said Casiraghi.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Falcone’s Harbinger Lost 19.5% in Illiquid Fund, Settles Suit  Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, the hedge-fund run by
billionaire Philip A. Falcone, lost 19.5 percent last year in a
pool of hard-to-sell assets that it’s divesting, according to a
letter sent to investors this week.  Falcone also told clients in a separate letter this week
that the so-called side-pocket would be paying $45 million to
settle a civil suit involving  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc ., one
of the companies in the pool, said an investor who asked not to
be named because the fund is private.  Harbinger, started by Falcone in 2001, limited withdrawals
from its biggest fund in 2008 to about 65 percent of assets and
told clients that it may take as long as two years for the rest
of the money to be returned. The losses in the illiquid pool,
which held $1.3 billion of Harbinger’s $9 billion of assets as
of September 2010, compare with a 15 percent gain, including
reinvested dividends, by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The settlement stems from a 2006 lawsuit filed by  Nacco
Industries Inc ., a Cleveland-based company that makes small
appliances and forklifts, against Applica Inc. and Harbinger’s
main fund. Nacco said Feb. 15 that Harbinger agreed to pay $60
million in total to settle claims that it tried to hamper the
company’s bid for Applica, according to a regulatory filing. The
case had been scheduled to go to trial Feb. 28.  Harbinger said yesterday in a statement that the parties
agreed to settle the dispute on Feb. 14, while not disclosing
any amount. Steve Bruce, a spokesman for the New York-based
fund, declined to comment beyond the statement.  The Nacco lawsuit accused senior management at Applica of
tipping Harbinger advisers to confidential merger negotiations
allowing the hedge fund to succeed in a bidding war.  For more, click here.  Ex  KB Home  Executive Gets Probation in Backdating Case  Gary A. Ray, KB Home’s former head of human resources who
had pleaded guilty in an investigation of stock-option
backdating at the homebuilder, was sentenced to three years’
probation.  Ray, who cooperated with the government in its prosecution
of Bruce Karatz, KB Home’s former chief executive officer, also
got four months’ home detention, a $10,000 fine, and was ordered
to do 600 hours community service, Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul
Stern said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ray pleaded guilty two years ago to conspiring with Karatz
in 2006 to “impede and obstruct” a probe into backdating that
was being conducted by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Karatz last year was sentenced to five years’ probation,
including eight months’ home detention, and a $1 million fine
after a jury trial.  “He’s pleased to have this behind him,” Ray’s lawyer,
Mark Beck, said in a telephone interview. “He’s prepared to go
back to work and go on with his life.”  The case U.S. v. Gary Ray, CR08-1443, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  KBR to Pay $11.3 Million to U.K. to End Bribery Probe    KBR Inc . agreed to pay 7.03 million pounds ($11.3 million)
to U.K. prosecutors to end a four-year probe into bribes paid to
Nigerian officials to win a liquefied natural gas project
through a company unit based in England.  M.W. Kellogg Ltd., the U.K. subsidiary of KBR, self-
reported the illegal payments to the Serious Fraud Office and
cooperated with the investigation, the Houston-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  KBR and its former parent  Halliburton Co . paid $579 million
in February of 2009 to resolve U.S. criminal and regulatory
probes over claims bribes were paid to obtain contracts to build
the Bonny Island liquefied natural gas facility in Nigeria.  Halliburton will reimburse KBR for 55 percent of the U.K.
fine under an indemnity agreement. The penalty is equivalent to
the profits generated for M.W. Kellogg by the Bonny Island
project contracts, KBR said. KBR said last month the acquisition
Roberts & Schaefer and M.W. Kellogg would add total 17 cents a
share to its 2011 earnings.  “This settlement was expected and closes out an
unfortunate part of KBR’s past,” William Utt, the company’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “We have since
moved forward, conducting our business with transparency,
accountability and discipline.”  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.K. Lawyer Wanted for Bribery Drops Extradition Appeal  A British lawyer wanted over allegations he bribed Nigerian
officials to win contracts for KBR Inc. on a $6 billion natural
gas project will be sent to the U.S. to face charges after
dropping an appeal of his extradition.  Last month the Court of Appeal ruled Jeffrey Tesler should
be sent to Houston. Tesler’s lawyers had argued he shouldn’t be
extradited because the case has “strong links” to the U.K. and
because British prosecutors are carrying out their own
investigation.  “Jeffrey Tesler has withdrawn all appeals of his
extradition,” his U.S. attorney Brad Simon said in a telephone
interview. “I am currently in discussions with the U.S.
Department of Justice about his situation.” He declined to give
further details.  As he has dropped his appeal, Tesler will be sent to the
U.S. within a month, Crown Prosecution Service spokesman Tim
McAtackney said in a telephone interview. Tesler and another
U.K. citizen were indicted on Feb. 17 last year by a federal
grand jury in Houston, accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. If convicted of all charges, each faces a maximum
prison sentence of 55 years.  The case is part of an investigation into Houston-based KBR
over claims it paid bribes to win contracts to build a liquefied
natural gas project in Nigeria. KBR in February 2009 agreed with
former parent Halliburton Co. to pay $579 million to resolve
related U.S. criminal and regulatory charges.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 