-- 
GMAC Won’t Face Much of Maine False Foreclosure Documents Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/ally-s-gmac-wins-ruling-in-maine-case-over-false-foreclosure-documents.html
Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC mortgage
unit won’t have to face much of a lawsuit by  Maine  homeowners
seeking damages over what they said were the company’s wrongful
foreclosure practices.  U.S. District Judge D. Brock Hornby in Portland, Maine,
granted GMAC’s request to dismiss two claims in the complaint,
according to a decision yesterday. He will probably throw out
the remaining claim, Thomas Cox, a lawyer for the homeowners,
said in an interview.  “I just don’t see how anything survives,” Cox said.  The decision will hurt similar lawsuits across the country
in which homeowners are attacking the foreclosure practices of
lenders, Cox said. Based on the judge’s ruling, homeowners can
only challenge the use of false documents in their individual
foreclosure cases, preventing them from filing class-action, or
group, lawsuits, he said.  “It’s going to be cited as precedent in any other case in
the country where somebody is trying to bring an action against
a servicer for having filed false affidavits,” said Cox, a  Portland  attorney.  If false documents are used in foreclosure cases,
homeowners can seek to vacate the judgment in their particular
cases, Hornby wrote. They can’t file new lawsuits, according to
the decision.  “A contrary ruling would mean that the outcome of every
lawsuit could produce a later lawsuit by the unhappy loser,
seeking damages on account of the outcome of the former lawsuit
and claiming that it resulted from false testimony or false
affidavits,” Hornby wrote.  ‘Hollow Remedy’  Cox called that a “hollow remedy” because most homeowners
can’t afford defense attorneys.  Gina Proia, an Ally spokeswoman, declined to comment
yesterday.  The Maine homeowners, who filed the lawsuit last year
seeking class-action status, accused GMAC of filing false
documents in foreclosure cases. They said a GMAC employee signed
sworn affidavits without verifying the accuracy of the
information. The homeowners sought damages and in December
unsuccessfully tried to stop GMAC foreclosure sales in Maine.  GMAC has asked the court to throw out the remaining claim
alleging violations of Maine’s unfair trade practices act. Cox
said Hornby will probably side with GMAC.  The case is Bradbury v. GMAC Mortgage LLC, 10-00458, U.S.
District Court of Maine (Portland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  