-- 
MAN SE Seeks Bavarian State Help to Avoid Plant Closures in Scania Merger

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-18T08:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/man-se-asks-bavarian-state-help-to-avoid-factory-closures-in-scania-merger.html
  MAN SE , the German truckmaker that
may merge with  Scania AB , has asked lawmakers to step in to help
prevent job losses and factory closures in the event of a
combination with the Swedish rival.  MAN is talking with the  Christian Social Union , Bavaria’s
ruling party, about the impact of a merger with Scania on local
production, three lawmakers said. The CSU has proposed a motion
in the regional parliament urging the state to help protect
Munich-based MAN’s 17,000 Bavarian jobs.  “Our goal is to take up those concerns and ensure that no
breakup of MAN will creep on the agenda,” said Markus Blume, a
CSU lawmaker. The motion aims to ensure “that Munich will
remain the place where future strategic decisions at MAN are
taken.”  MAN and Scania have been exploring ways since last July to
cooperate and possibly combine to cut development and purchasing
costs. The merger talks take place amid bribery investigations
at MAN’s former unit Ferrostaal AG and a European Union probe
into price fixing that also involves  Daimler AG  and Volvo AB.    Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest automaker, is MAN’s biggest
investor with a 29.9 percent stake and controls 71 percent of
Scania’s voting rights. A combination of the truckmakers, with
annual revenue of $29 billion and a combined market value of $33
billion, would create the largest manufacturer of commercial
vehicles in  Europe .  ‘Eye to Eye’  Dominique Nadelhofer, an MAN spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Hans-Aake Danielsson, a spokesman at
Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania.  The CSU, the Bavarian sister party of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, will seek approval
by lawmakers in the Bavarian parliament of the pro-MAN motion on
Feb. 24, said CSU lawmaker Klaus Dieter Breitschwert.  MAN employs 48,000 workers, of which 27,000 are based in  Germany . The company makes heavy trucks, gear boxes and axles at
its Munich headquarters and engines in Nuremberg. Bavarian
operations also include the RENK AG unit in Augsburg, a producer
of gears for industry,  power plants  and marine propulsion.  “It’s crucial that the conditions of a merger, if it
happens, are fair and that MAN and Scania are looking eye to
eye,” said Juergen Wechsler, the Bavarian leader of  IG Metall ,
Germany’s biggest union. “It’s legitimate to rope in the
government. They may be able to influence the terms. Ultimately,
it’s a give-and-take for all players involved.”  ‘Bargaining Chip’  VW bought the MAN stake to help Scania fend off the German
rival’s hostile bid four years ago and took its controlling
stake in Scania in 2008. VW Chairman Ferdinand Piech has said he
wanted to see the truckmakers’ cooperation to accelerate.  “He’s juggling with Bavarian interests and that’s not
right,” said Erwin Huber, a CSU lawmaker and former state
minister. “MAN is no bargaining chip.”  Before today, MAN had risen 2.7 percent since Scania said
Nov. 15 that it’s considering a merger with the German company.
Scania had lost 9.2 percent in the same period.  MAN slid 2 cents to 84.68 euros at 9:38 a.m. on the
Frankfurt exchange. Scania lost 1 percent to 131.20 kronor on
the Stockholm exchange.  Hakan Thurfjell, a member of Scania’s supervisory board who
represents employees, said he’d also expect the Swedish company
to approach local lawmakers to help secure jobs if the merger
happens. Scania has about 35,500 workers.  “We’re equally eager to keep workers employed here in  Sweden ,” he said by phone, adding that Scania hasn’t reached
out to politicians. Whether MAN and Scania will end up merging
“is difficult to say.”  “You don’t want to be dragging the bride to the wedding,”
Thurfjell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 