-- 
Manchester United's Ferdinand Embraces Social Media as F.A. Warns Players

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-17T05:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/manchester-united-s-ferdinand-embraces-social-networking-amid-f-a-warning.html
Manchester United’s Rio Ferdinand is
turning away from traditional media outlets and using the
Internet to build his brand.  The 32-year-old defender is among soccer players including
Cesc Fabregas and  Nicolas Anelka  who are trying to reach
directly to their fans. Ferdinand is the most-followed Premier
League player on the Twitter social media site, with 540,000 
followers, ahead of Arsenal midfielder Fabregas’s 420,000 and 
Chelsea striker Anelka’s 128,000.  “People in the past may have thought I was a certain type
of character from what they read about me or what they heard,”
the  England  national soccer team captain said in an interview.
“I get better responses now from the public than I did before.
They see me for what I am rather than what I’m not. They don’t
have to like me but it’s important they see the real me.”  Athletes who once relied on newspaper and television
interviews to talk about their performances or a big match have
migrated to platforms like Facebook or Twitter, which has 175
million users. Utilizing their own sites allows them to control
the message while still appearing spontaneous, Ferdinand said.  Still, rants can lead to trouble, and there’s no excuse to
blame a journalist for a misquote.  Recent Twitter postings have included former Liverpool
forward  Ryan Babel  mocking up a picture of referee Howard Webb
in a Manchester United shirt after the official gave United a
penalty at Liverpool’s expense earlier this season. Arsenal’s
19-year-old midfielder  Jack Wilshere  also used the site to
criticize officials following a match with Newcastle. In July
2009 striker  Darren Bent  used the site to complain that
Tottenham Chairman Daniel Levy was blocking a transfer to
Sunderland.  F.A. Warning  The regularity of the postings led England’s Football
Association to warn players last weekend that they will face
sanctions if they overstep the mark.  “Any comments which are deemed improper, bring the game
into disrepute, or are threatening, abusive, indecent or
insulting may lead to disciplinary action,” the F.A. said in
its message to players and officials.  Ferdinand, who posts several messages a day, wrote that the
F.A.’s edict “will only affect players who don’t know how to
use Twitter properly.”  The influence of sites like Twitter and Facebook has been
highlighted with their use in campaigns to bring down
governments in Tunisia and  Egypt . Twitter has about 95 million
posts a day, according to its  website . That has risen from 50
million per day  in February .  Ferdinand, whose messages are also followed by 300,000
people on Chinese micro-blogging site Sina Weibo, is cautious
about giving interviews to newspapers. He said it’s because of 
a bad experience when he started his career with West Ham.  `Twisted and Contrived'  “I did an interview when I was a young player with a
journalist on a newspaper and it couldn’t be more twisted and
contrived,” he said. “I was naive, I trusted that person and
he took advantage of me.”  Phil Hall, a former editor of the U.K.’s best-selling
tabloid newspaper, The News of the World, explained Twitter’s
attraction to celebrities such as Ferdinand.  “I don’t think they can connect very easily because the
media are only looking for sensational, outrageous headlines on
them and this gives them a chance to connect with real people on
a real level and they do get feedback because people can come
back to them,” said Hall, who now runs his own public relations
company.  Amplified  The F.A. in its statement to players warned them that
though they may be talking to a small audience of followers,
their messages risked being amplified. Several players have
tried to delete postings only to see them published online or in
newspapers later on.  “When authorities prohibit people from airing their view
they will face the possibility that people will defy them by
using social media,” said Roy Greenslade, professor of
journalism at  London ’s City University and author of ‘Press
Gang: How Newspapers Make Profits from Propaganda.’ “There’s
not much they can do about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net  