-- 
ANZ Bank's Margin Slides, Business Lending Stagnates, Sending Shares Lower

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-02-18T01:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/anz-bank-first-quarter-underlying-profit-rises-27-on-fx-margin-increase.html
  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd . said lending profitability slipped last quarter,
triggering the biggest drop in its shares in three months.  ANZ Bank’s group margin fell as much as 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, in the three months through Dec. 31 from
the previous six months, Chief Financial Officer Peter Marriott
said in a call with analysts today.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp . posted wider margins earlier
this month.  “It’s the only bank that reported a decline in net
interest margin,” said Brett Le Mesurier, an analyst at BBY Ltd.
in Sydney with a “hold” rating on ANZ Bank. “That has a
material impact on income growth.”  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith  is expanding in  Asia  to
tap faster growing economies as lending to businesses stagnated
in the last three months of 2011. Melbourne-based ANZ Bank’s
unaudited underlying profit after tax in the three months to Dec.
31 climbed 27 percent to about A$1.4 billion ($1.42 billion)
from the same period a year earlier as mortgage lending climbed,
it said in a statement to the stock exchange today.  Shares of ANZ Bank tumbled 2.8 percent to A$24.94 as of
11:57 a.m. in Sydney, the biggest drop since Nov. 4, paring this
year’s gain to 6.8 percent.  Commonwealth, Westpac  Commonwealth Bank said Feb. 9 that first-half profit rose
to a record as its net interest margin widened to 2.12 percent,
from 2.08 percent in the six months to June 30. Westpac this
week reported fiscal first-quarter profit of about A$1.55
billion as its margin rose to 2.2 percent from 2.17 percent.    National Australia Bank Ltd ., the nation’s fourth-largest
lender, on Feb. 8 posted an 18 percent increase in first-quarter
profit. National Australia Bank increased its share of the
business lending market in the period.  At ANZ Bank, lending to households rose 2.5 percent in the
quarter, while business loan growth was “flat.”  “We will not compromise our credit standards in any way,”
Smith told analysts on the call.  ANZ joined Commonwealth Bank and Westpac in reporting a
rise in deposits that’s helping the lenders cut the amount of
money they need to raise in debt markets. Australia’s four
largest banks, which are rated Aa1, are being reviewed by
Moody’s Investors Service, which said this week their reliance
on global debt markets to fund lending is a concern.  ‘Fully Funded’  ANZ Bank’s loan growth in the fiscal first quarter was
“fully funded” from increased deposits and about half of the
A$25 billion the bank expects to rollover in debt markets during
the 12 months to Sept. 30 has been completed, Smith said. It
also bought back some government guaranteed debt maturing this
year.  ANZ Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its ability
to absorb potential losses, was 10.3 percent.  While ANZ’s group margin narrowed, CFO Marriott told
analysts the bank’s preferred margin measure -- which excludes
its global markets business -- rose between 2 basis points and 3
basis points in the fiscal first quarter from the previous six
months. The global markets business includes foreign exchange,
commodities and fixed income trading.  “There were no major positive surprises from ANZ” after
market expectations rose in the wake of recent earnings updates
from  Australia ’s three other largest banks, Morgan Stanley
analysts including Richard Wiles in Sydney said in a note today.
They rate ANZ shares as “equal-weight.” Still, “overall, we
thought the result was solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  