-- 
Apache Profit Misses Estimates as Expenses Climb

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-02-17T21:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/apache-net-income-climbs-on-higher-oil-prices-acquisitions.html
  Apache Corp ., the largest
independent U.S. oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
reported fourth-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates
after higher costs offset rising production.  Net income climbed 15 percent to $670 million, or $1.77 a
share, compared with $582 million, or $1.72, a year earlier,
Houston-based Apache said today in a statement. Per-share
profit, excluding acquisition costs and foreign currency
fluctuations, was $2.19 a share, 26 cents less than the average
of 25 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Output in the quarter was the equivalent of 728,657 barrels
of oil a day, a 24 percent increase from a year earlier. Fourth-
quarter sales climbed 34 percent from a year earlier to $3.43
billion. Costs rose 51 percent to $2.17 billion, including a 54
percent jump in lease operating expenses.  “They came below expectations basically because of much
higher costs,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co. in  New York  who has an “outperform” rating on the shares
and doesn’t own any.  Apache rose 11 cents to $120.62 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading as of 4:00 p.m. Crude for March delivery rose
$1.37, or 1.6 percent, to settle at $86.36 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day increase since
Jan. 31.  In July, Apache announced plans to buy assets from London-
based BP Plc in Egypt, Canada and the Permian Basin of  Texas  and  New Mexico  for about $7 billion. Apache in 2010 also completed
its purchase of Mariner Energy Inc. and of Devon Energy Corp.’s
shallow-water assets in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Transition Year  In November, Apache issued a forecast that production would
exceed 775,000 barrels a day for the following month, due to
acquisitions. Profit per share missed estimates as output for
the full quarter wasn’t as high as some people estimated,
according to Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St.
Louis .  “It was a combination of production volumes a little
lighter than expected and costs being a little bit higher, and
all that in a transition period where there’s a lot of moving
pieces,” said Youngberg, who has a “buy” rating on Apache
shares and owns none.  Oil futures traded in New York averaged $85.24 a barrel in
the fourth quarter, a 12 percent increase from a year earlier.
The  International Energy Agency  said in a  report  this month that
worldwide oil demand in 2011 is expected to rise about 1.7
percent from last year.  Capital Spending  Apache plans $7.5 billion in  capital expenditures  this
year, Apache Chief Executive Officer Steven Farris told analysts
and investors today on a conference call. The total is
“significantly less” than Apache’s expected cash flow, so
spending may rise depending on prices.  Farris said the company expects to reduce debt in part by
pursuing $1 billion in property sales. That may include sales
from conventional assets in  Canada , he said.  Apache expects production growth of 13 percent to 17
percent in 2011 compared with last year, excluding potential
sales or purchases, Farris said.  Largest Position  Apache’s production of oil and gas continued in Egypt
during weeks of protests against the government. Egypt is
Apache’s largest acreage position, according to the company’s
 website . The demonstrations forced President  Hosni Mubarak  to
cede power to the army on Feb. 11.  Apache said in today’s statement it “believes that Egypt
will continue to foster an environment that values foreign
investment and the development of its ample resource base.”  The compan ended last year with 2.95 billion barrels of oil
equivalent. Apache’s production last year was 240 million
barrels of oil equivalent. The company added 827 million barrels
of oil equivalent through acquisitions, discoveries and
extensions.  Independent oil and gas companies such as Apache don’t own
refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  