-- 
Oil Companies Complete Spill Containment System

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-02-17T18:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/marine-well-containment-completes-initial-containment-system.html
Marine Well Containment Co., a
nonprofit group whose founders include  Exxon Mobil Corp . and
ConocoPhillips, said an initial response system for future oil
spills in the  Gulf of Mexico  has been completed.  The status of potential containment systems has been a
focus for regulators following a record offshore U.S. oil spill
at  BP Plc ’s Macondo well in the Gulf last April. The U.S.
Interior Department said Jan. 25 that it was refusing to issue
deep-water exploration permits because energy companies hadn’t
shown a capability to respond to a massive spill.  The system includes a subsea capping stack with the ability
to shut in flowing oil or to send crude to surface vessels using
flexible pipes and risers, Marine Well Containment said today in
a statement. Other initial members of the group include  Chevron
Corp . and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  The achievement fulfills a plan to deliver a system within
six months of starting the well containment project, Marty Massey, the organization’s chief executive officer, said in
today’s statement.  The new system includes chemicals to break up oil below the
surface and equipment for surface processing and storage. Marine
Well Containment said it has consulted with the U.S. government
to ensure the system is designed to meet requirements.  Interim System  Exploratory drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet was
halted after BP’s Macondo well erupted off the Louisiana coast
in April, killing 11 rig workers and spewing more than 4 million
barrels of crude into the sea. BP made several efforts to cap
the well, located 5,000 feet (1500 meters) below the sea
surface, before finally shutting the leak after 87 days. BP has
joined the Marine Containment group.  Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar lifted the moratorium in
October, with the caveat that energy companies would have to
meet tougher safety, inspection and environmental-protection
rules to qualify for permits.  The containment system is designed to contain a spill of
the magnitude of the Macondo leak, in even deep waters. The
interim system is intended to operate in water depths of up to
8,000 feet, with storage and liquids processing capacity of up
to 60,000 barrels per day, according to today’s statement.  ‘Significant Progress’  The need to show well control and containment capacity for
deep-water drilling was made clear by the Macondo blowout,
Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, said today in an
e-mail.  She said the bureau appreciates the “significant
progress” in addressing the issue by Marine Well Containment,
“and we continue to encourage them to make their containment
system available as quickly as possible to deep-water operators
so that new, responsible oil and gas drilling in deep water can
proceed.”  The Bureau was participating in testing of the containment
components yesterday and was providing feedback on the
documentation associated with the system, Clay Vaughn, vice
president of deepwater projects at Exxon, said during a
conference call with reporters today.  The more developed version of the system, able to operate
in waters as deep as 10,000 feet, will be available next year,
Vaughn said.  Salazar should let deep-water drilling resume “right
away,” to keep  oil prices  from rising and lower the U.S.
dependence on foreign crude imports, House Natural Resources
Committee Chairman Doc Hastings, Washington Republican, said in
an interview yesterday.  The  energy industry  “has met every requirement for
resuming operations in the Gulf and is ready to get back to work
providing the energy this country needs,”  Jack Gerard , the
chief executive officer of  American Petroleum Institute , an
industry trade group, said in a statement today.    Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc . is also working on a
similar solution and expects to develop a containment system by
the end of March, spokesman Cameron Wallace said by phone
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  