-- 
Arsenal Rallies to Beat Barcelona 2-1 in Champions League; Shakhtar Wins

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-17T00:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/arsenal-rallies-to-beat-barcelona-2-1-in-champions-league-shakhtar-wins.html
Arsenal scored twice in the final 12
minutes to beat Barcelona 2-1 in the opening game of their
Champions League round of 16 tie, while Shakhtar Donetsk won 3-2
at Roma.    Robin van Persie  and substitute Andrey Arshavin scored five
minutes apart at the Emirates Stadium in London last night as
the Gunners rallied to beat the three-time European champion
team for the first time in six meetings.  “When you play Barcelona, you are always on the border of
collapsing against them because you can be punished severely for
mental mistakes,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in a news
conference. “We kept resilient and strong in the second half.
Overall it was an exciting and special night.”  Jadson, Douglas Costa and Luiz Adriano scored in a 12-
minute span during the first half to give Shakhtar Donetsk the
victory in  Italy . Simone Perrotta and Jeremy Menez got the Roma
goals.  Barcelona and Shakhtar will host the return matches in the
two-game series on March 8.  Arsenal, which has never won European soccer’s top prize,
had the game’s first chance as  Van Persie  had a shot from close
range blocked by goalkeeper Victor Valdes.    Lionel Messi , the World Player of the Year, then broke
clear only to chip wide of the post over Arsenal goalkeeper
Wojciech Szczesny.  Barcelona took the lead in the 26th minute through  David Villa , who stayed onside to accept a pass from Messi before
sending a low shot into the corner of the goal.  Goal Ruled Out  Barcelona was unfortunate not to double its lead 12 minutes
later. Messi was judged to be offside when he headed in the
rebound after Villa’s shot. Replays indicated he was onside.  Van Persie tied the game in the 78th minute when Valdes
allowed his shot from near the goal-line to pass between himself
and the post.  Five minutes later, Samir Nasri collected Cesc Fabregas’s
pass and squared for Arshavin to net the winner with a curling
first-time shot. The Russian had replaced  Alex Song  in the 68th
minute.  Szczesny then blocked Dani Alves’s shot with two minutes
left to play to scupper Barcelona’s last chance of the game.  Arsenal, which lost the 2006 Champions League final against
Barcelona, scored late to secure a 2-2 draw in the quarterfinals
last season before losing 4-1 in the second game, with Messi
scoring all of Barcelona’s goals.  “We created more chances than in the first leg last
year,” Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola said. “We dominated and
more or less controlled the game.”  Shakhtar Wins  At the Stadio Olimpico in  Rome , the home team took the lead
on Perrotta’s 28th-minute header. The advantage lasted one
minute as Jadson fired a right-footed shot past goalkeeper Doni.  Shakhtar, in the knockout stages for the first time, made
it 2-1 seven minutes later as Douglas Costa curled a shot inside
the far post and Luiz Adriano made it 3-1 four minutes before
halftime.  “Shakhtar have a great future,” Roma coach Claudio Ranieri told reporters. “They have young, talented players,
they are very good at keeping possession and always find a man
unmarked. They remind me of Barcelona.”  Roma pressed more in the second half against a team that
lacks playing time because of Ukraine’s winter shutdown. Menez
cut the deficit in the 61st minute with a shot past Shakhtar
goalkeeper Andriy Pyatov from 20 meters (22 yards).  “We’re a highly organized team and fast on the
counterattack,” Shakhtar coach Mircea Lucescu told reporters.
“In the second half you could see that Shakhtar lack a bit of
physical conditioning, so Roma performed well then and pressed
us hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at the Emirates Stadium in  London  at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 