-- 
Arsenal Shows Resilience in Mounting Comeback for First Win Over Barcelona

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-17T00:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/arsenal-shows-resilience-in-mounting-comeback-for-first-win-over-barcelona.html
Arsenal’s players heeded manager  Arsene Wenger ’s advice to keep their nerve as the Gunners
rallied to beat Barcelona 2-1 in the Champions League.  Barcelona, which had 61 percent of the possession at the
Emirates Stadium in London last night, led 1-0 on  David Villa ’s
goal before a mistake by goalkeeper Victor Valdes allowed  Robin van Persie  to tie it in the 78th minute. Substitute Andrey Arshavin got Arsenal’s winner five minutes later.  “Against Barcelona you are exposed many times because of
great possession and we kept resilient,” said Wenger, whose
team lost 6-3 to Barca over two games last season. “Our players
have showed exceptional strength and togetherness.”  Barcelona, which won the European Cup for the third time in
2009, completed 629 passes compared with Arsenal’s 299.  Xavi Hernandez , the Catalan club’s captain, hit 109 of those
successful passes, almost three times more than Arsenal’s most
accurate passer  Jack Wilshere , who had 40.  Getting the better of Barcelona for the first time in six
attempts will give his team a psychological lift for the return
round-of-16 game at the Camp Nou on March 8, Wenger said.  After rallying to draw last year’s quarterfinal opener
between the teams 2-2, the Gunners were floored at the Camp Nou
as  Lionel Messi  scored all Barcelona’s goals in a 4-1 victory.  “Barca are still favorite but we know tonight we can beat
them,” Wenger said, describing the Spanish champion as “the
best team in the world.”  Messi Miss  FIFA World Player of the Year Messi, who has 32 goals in 37
games this season, almost opened the scoring last night after 16
minutes when he latched onto Villa’s pass.  With just goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny to beat, the
Argentine put the ball the wrong side of the post. Villa wasn’t
as wasteful when Messi turned provider 10 minutes later, staying
onside before putting a low shot into the corner of the goal.  Messi had a header disallowed for offside five minutes
before halftime, though television replays suggested the goal
should have been allowed to stand.  Although Xavi continued to dictate play in the second half,
Barcelona’s superior possession failed to create clear openings.  “In general I’m happy with the performance,” Barcelona
coach Josep Guardiola said. “It’s the result I don’t like.”  Gunners’ Gamble  Wenger said he “gambled” by throwing on attackers Nicklas Bendtner and Arshavin to try to mount a comeback. Yet it was
Barcelona’s Valdes who put the Gunners back into the match when
he allowed  Van Persie ’s shot to squeeze in between him and the
near post.  The goal buoyed Arsenal and roused the home crowd, which
had spent much of the match silently watching Barcelona move the
ball from one side of the pitch to the other and work its
passing triangles.  Arshavin struck the winner in the 83rd minute. He slotted
the ball through a crowd of defenders and past Valdes following
a flowing move involving Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri.  Wenger said his team won’t sit back and defend its lead in
Barcelona, while Guardiola predicted the match would be one of
the highlights of the season.  “They will attack and we’re going to attack too,”
Guardiola said. “If you have time and nothing to do I suggest
you come and watch the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  