-- 
Hartford Adds $135 Million in Hurricane Protection

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-17T19:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hartford-adds-135-million-in-hurricane-protection-update1-.html
  Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc ., the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout last year, is
adding to the protection it receives through catastrophe bonds
as investors seek to buy securities with higher returns.  The latest bond, sold Feb. 15, provides $135 million of
coverage and pays 5 percentage points more than three-month
Treasury bills, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
matures in 2015 and protects against U.S. hurricanes for
Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the same
name. The insurer issued a separate $180 million catastrophe
bond last year, also to protect against U.S. hurricanes.  Institutional investors are buying catastrophe bonds from
insurers including  American International Group Inc . and  Allianz
SE  to get higher yields than on corporate bonds. Corporate debt
investors demand 96 basis points more than Treasuries with
similar maturities for notes due in one to three years. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We’ll continue to see more pension funds come into the
space,” said Paul Schultz, president of Aon Benfield
Securities, an investment banking division of  Aon Corp ., in an
interview last month. “The risk profile and the return profile
fit very well.”  The Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index gained about 1.8
percent in the past 12 months as the strongest hurricanes in the
Atlantic season missed the U.S. The figures don’t reflect  interest rates , which are higher than benchmark yields because
investors risk losing their principal in the event of a disaster
that meets predefined conditions.  AIG, Flagstone    Standard & Poor’s  gave a BB+ rating to the bond, issued by
Foundation Re III Ltd., a special-purpose company in the  Cayman
Islands . The rating is one level below investment grade. David Snowden, a spokesman for Hartford, declined to comment.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA
and AIG’s property-casualty unit Chartis were among sellers of
about $4.8 billion in catastrophe bonds last year, an increase
of about 40 percent from the full-year 2009 total, according to
a  report  from Aon on Jan. 14. Aon forecasts new issuance of
between $5 billion and $6 billion for 2011, as almost $4 billion
of bonds mature.  Insurers use catastrophe bonds as an alternative to
reinsurance to guard against the hurricanes, earthquakes and
other natural disasters. Global prices for reinsurance were set
to decline 7.5 percent for policies being renewed as of Jan. 1,
the reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. said in
December. Rates fell 6 percent in the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  