-- 
Asia Stocks, Won Gain on Growth Outlook; Treasuries Drop on Inflation Risk

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-02-18T02:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/asia-stocks-commodities-oil-gain-on-outlook-for-global-growth-earnings.html
Asian stocks gained, with the
region’s benchmark index set for its best week since December,
and the won strengthened amid signs of sustained global growth.
Treasuries declined as traders increased bets inflation will
accelerate as the  U.S. economy  expands.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.5 percent to 139.85 as
of 11:40 a.m. in Tokyo, bound for a 2.8 percent weekly advance.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were little changed after
the gauge reached a 32-month high yesterday. The won rallied 0.4
percent versus the dollar. Ten-year Treasury yields rose three
basis points to 3.61 percent. Copper snapped a three-day drop.    Taiwan ’s economy expanded at a faster-than-forecast pace
last quarter, fueling concerns that the island’s central bank
will need to raise borrowing costs.  Vietnam  lifted  interest
rates  yesterday for the first time since November and the U.S.
consumer-price index gained. Group of 20 policy makers, at odds
over smoothing over global economic imbalances, will have to
tackle a spread of inflation from emerging markets to advanced
economies as they meet in Paris from today.  “The global economy is recovering,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“Stocks gains are consistent on the U.S. economy but also beyond
the U.S. as well.”  More than two shares gained for each that declined on
MSCI’s Asian index, which was on course for its best week since
Dec. 3.  Billabong International Ltd . was the gauge’s best
performer, jumping 7.8 percent after the Australian surf-wear
maker boosted first-half revenue and forecast full-year sales
that exceeded analyst estimates.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.6 percent, taking
its gains for the week to 2.5 percent. The measure was also
poised for its best performance since the five days ended Dec. 3.
Taiwan’s Taiex rose 1.6 percent today and  South Korea ’s Kospi
index rallied 1.2 percent.  The won traded at 1,113.88 per dollar, the highest level in
more than a week. Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to
NT$29.32 against its U.S. counterpart after the island’s
statistics bureau said yesterday after the market closed that
gross domestic product climbed 6.92 percent in the three months
through December.  Malaysia’s economy grew 4.6 percent last quarter, following
a 5.3 percent expansion in the previous three months, according
to the median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News before today’s report.  Thailand ’s economy probably grew 4.1
percent during the quarter, according to a separate survey
before the figures are released on Feb. 21.  ‘Bullish’ on Growth  The dollar was at $1.3612 per euro from $1.3609 in New York
yesterday, after earlier weakening to $1.3627, the lowest level
since Feb. 10. It was set for a 0.4 percent loss this week. The
yen fetched 113.46 per euro from 113.37 yesterday, when it fell
to 113.68, the least since Jan. 28. The Japanese currency has
declined 0.3 percent this week.  “Investors are feeling more bullish on the economic
outlook,” said Kazuhiro Takahashi, a general manager at Tokyo-
based Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  An index of sentiment among factory executives in  France 
rose to 109 in February from 108 the previous month, while
industrial orders in  Italy  increased 2.1 percent in December
from November, when they fell 4.3 percent, according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists. U.K. retail sales climbed 0.5
percent in January from December, when they sank 0.8 percent, a
separate survey showed. All three reports are due today.  U.S. Inflation  U.S. data yesterday showed the Conference Board’s index of
leading indicators rose for a seventh straight month, while a
Federal Reserve gauge of Philadelphia-area manufacturing topped
economists’ estimates. Figures from the Labor Department showed
the consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent, exceeding the
0.3 percent median estimate of economists.  The difference between yields on two-year U.S. notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which tracks the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities,
expanded to 1.97 percentage points, the widest since July 2008.  Commodities climbed, with copper rising 0.9 percent to
$9,895 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Zinc and lead
gained at least 1 percent. Crude oil for March delivery
fluctuated after surging 1.6 percent on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange yesterday amid mounting tensions in the Middle East.  Bahrain’s army fired teargas shells, buckshot and rubber
bullets yesterday in the capital, Manama, to quell an uprising
by pro-democracy protesters. Credit-default swaps on Bahrain
jumped for a fourth day, rising 18.5 basis points to 286, the
highest since July 2009, according to CMA.  The past week has also seen anti-government protests and
clashes in  Libya ,  Africa ’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves,
and Yemen, a producer of liquefied natural gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 