-- 
Massachusetts Senator Brown Tells CBS He Was Sexually Abused by Counselor

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/massachusetts-senator-brown-tells-cbs-he-was-sexually-abused-by-counselor.html
Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts
Republican who won Edward Kennedy’s old seat, says that he was
sexually abused when he was 10 years old by a camp counselor,
CBS News reports.  In a “60 Minutes” interview scheduled to air Feb. 20,
Brown said the counselor threatened him if he told of the abuse.  “He said, ‘If you tell anybody, you know, I’ll kill
you,’” Brown said in an  excerpt of the interview  posted last
night on the “60 Minutes” website. He said he hadn’t spoken of
the incident before, and that the abuse happened when he was
young, vulnerable and “lost.”  “The thing that they have over you is they make you
believe that no one will believe you,” he said.  A spokesman for Brown didn’t respond to a request for
further comment.  A lawyer who earlier served in the  Massachusetts  state
legislature, Brown has written a book, “Against All Odds,”
that is scheduled for release Feb. 21. In it, he describes a
“savage beating” he sustained at the age of 6 when he tried to
protect his mother from a stepfather who had had too much to
drink, according to a  description  posted on Amazon.com.  In the CBS interview, Brown describes being haunted by
memories of what occurred in a childhood home in Wakefield,
Massachusetts, where he and his mother had lived with the man.
When the home came up for sale some time ago, he asked the real
estate agent if he could tour it and “relived kind of where
everything was,” he said, according to a story about the
interview posted on the “60 Minutes” website.  ‘Burn It Down’  “As I left, I said, ‘Man, I wish I had the money,’’ Brown
said. ‘‘I’d just buy this thing and burn it down.’’  Brown, 51, won a special election in January 2010 for the
Senate seat, an upset in a heavily Democratic state that vaulted
him to national prominence. He is the first Republican in more
than 30 years to represent Massachusetts in the Senate.  His win gave Republicans 41 votes in the Senate, enough to
delay or block initiatives by the Democratic majority in cases
where 60 votes are needed in the 100-seat chamber to end efforts
to thwart legislation. Following November’s elections,
Republican have 47 Senate seats; they will be seeking a majority
in next year’s vote.  Brown will seek a full six-year term in the 2012 elections.  He said his childhood prepared him for the tough world of
politics.  ‘‘When I’m getting the crap beat out of me outside, in the
political spectrum,” CBS quotes him as saying, “I’m like,
‘Psst. This is nothing. Bring it on. Let’s go. Next!’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  