-- 
Hastings Urges Restarting Oil Drilling in Gulf to Stem Rising Fuel Prices

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hastings-urges-restarting-gulf-drilling-to-stem-rising-prices.html
The Obama administration should
resume deep-water drilling “right away” and open new areas to
offshore exploration to keep  oil prices  from rising, said the
House Republican who oversees Interior Department legislation.  “I don’t wish for higher gasoline prices,” House Natural
Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings of Washington said in
an interview in his office yesterday. “As we get into more of
the tourist season, during which typically gasoline prices rise,
I think the American public will push that decision.”  Hastings, 70, said he plans to question Interior Secretary
Ken Salazar at a March 3 hearing about U.S. dependence on
foreign oil and the risk of a loss of crude supplies amid
political instability in nations such as Egypt.  Crude oil reached the highest price in more than two years
during protests last month that forced out Egypt’s President
Hosni Mubarak. Prices rose yesterday after Isarel’s military
said two Iranian gunboats were headed to Syria through Egypt’s
Suez Canal.  Drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, stalled
after  BP Plc ’s April spill, should resume without waiting for
regulators to approve oil and gas company containment systems to
respond to a similar disaster in the future, Hastings said.  The Interior Department hasn’t approved any development
plans and is seeking further information on spill-response
systems.  “The most critical missing piece in the process of
approving applications for permits to drill in deep-water is the
demonstration of well control and subsea containment
capability,” Michael R. Bromwich, director of the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, said in a
letter on Feb. 4.  Containment Systems  The letter was sent to  Exxon Mobil Corp .-led Marine Well
Containment Corp. and Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc., which
are developing separate blowout-response systems.  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  and  Chevron Corp . are among the companies
participating in the Exxon group; the Helix effort caters to
smaller explorers such as  Marathon Oil Corp . and  Newfield
Exploration Co .  Hastings said cutting spending for programs his committee
oversees is a priority. Additional spending by the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management should be funded by revenue from oil
company royalties on offshore leases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder at   jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 