-- 
Tata BP Says India Solar Bids Don't `Have Grip' on Real Technology Costs

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T10:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/tata-bp-says-india-solar-bids-don-t-have-grip-on-real-technology-costs.html
Bidders in  India ’s first solar
auction have committed to building plants at unviable rates
because they don’t understand the costs of the technology,  Tata
BP Solar Ltd.  said.  The government, expected to award the next round of
licenses later this year, should select bids closest to the
average to weed out unrealistically low ones, said Anil Patni,
deputy general manager of the photovoltaic equipment maker. Tata
BP Solar is jointly owned by  BP Plc  and Tata Power Co., India’s
largest non-state power producer.  India selected developers that offered the deepest
discounts to the rate at which they’ll sell their electricity to
ensure it wouldn’t over-subsidize the sector. European
governments, including  Spain  and  Germany , have had to curb solar
subsidies that set off a boom of investment and spiraling state
renewable-energy costs.  The auction should’ve worked “by the textbook,” Patni
told the  Noppen India Solar Energy Summit  in  New Delhi  today.
“The problem is the market doesn’t really have a grip on the
real numbers” because the technology is new.  In the December auction, the lowest solar photovoltaic bid
price came in at 10.95 rupees (24 cents) a kilowatt-hour and the
lowest solar thermal bid was 10.49 rupees a kilowatt-hour,
offering discounts of more than 30 percent to government-
proposed rates.    Abengoa SA , which has built plants in Spain and the U.S.,
and  Acme Group , constructing a 10-megawatt solar thermal plant
in India, were among the companies that lost out in the bidding.  Capital expenditure costs didn’t fall at the same rate
during that time period to justify those discounts, Patni said.  If companies quoting bids closest to the average had been
selected, projects would be committed to sell their power at
about 15 rupees a kilowatt-hour, Patni said.  “This is a tariff that’s still viable” and would also
make projects more likely to obtain funding from banks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 