-- 
BAA Must Sell Airports After U.K. Court Rejects Appeal

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-02-17T21:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/baa-must-sell-airports-after-u-k-court-rejects-appeal-update1-.html
BAA Ltd., the owner of London’s
Heathrow airport, will likely have to sell two of its U.K.
airports after the  Supreme Court  refused to hear an appeal of a
decision by a competition regulator.  BAA will have to sell London Stansted airport and either
the Edinburgh or Glasgow,  Scotland , airports, unless they can
negotiate a settlement with the U.K.’s antitrust regulator, the
Competition Commission, the company said today in a statement.
BAA, owned by Madrid-based  Ferrovial SA , already sold  London
Gatwick  under pressure from the regulator.  Originally ordered to sell the airports by spring 2011, BAA
previously had success fighting the forced sales.  An appeals
tribunal  in December 2009 accepted BAA’s argument that an
adviser for the regulator didn’t remove himself from the
investigation soon enough when a conflict of interest arose.
That ruling was overturned by an appeals court in October.  BAA is “disappointed” by the court’s decision not to hear
the appeal, the company said in a statement.  “We continue to make the case to the  Competition
Commission  that the circumstances in which they found reason to
force the sale of airports have changed significantly since
early 2009 and should certainly be reviewed in the light of the
government’s policy to rule out new runway capacity in the
southeast of  England ,” the company said.  The commission is “currently examining whether there have
been significant developments since we made the original
decision back in March 2009 that could cause us to reconsider
that decision,” Rory Taylor, a spokesman for the regulator,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “We should report back on this towards the end of next
month,” Taylor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 