-- 
Bahrain's King Seeks Talks With Foes Amid Clashes in Region

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-18T21:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bahrain-security-forces-kill-two-people-overnight-human-rights-groups-say.html
Bahrain’s King Hamad Bin Isa Al
Khalifa called for a “dialogue” after hundreds of protesters
were injured by Bahraini security forces in two days of turmoil
in the capital, Manama.  President  Barack Obama  said today he is “deeply
concerned” by the violence in Bahrain, home to the  U.S. Navy’s
Fifth Fleet , as well as by clashes in Libya and in Yemen, whose
government cooperates with the U.S. on anti-terror efforts. In
addition, police opened fire today on demonstrators in Djibouti,
the Horn of  Africa  nation that hosts the only U.S. military base
on the continent, according to the leader of an opposition
party.  In Bahrain, King Hamad asked his son, Crown Prince Salman
bin Hamad Al Khalifa, to try to resolve the conflict, the
Bahrain News Agency reported. The prince, who attended the U.S.
Defense Department high school in Bahrain and earned a B.A. at
American University in  Washington , is viewed by American
diplomats as a part of the “reformist camp within the ruling
party,” according to a Dec. 2009 embassy cable made public by
the WikiLeaks group.  “We have assigned him to start a dialogue with all parties
and sections in our beloved Bahrain without exception,” the
king was quoted as saying.  The king’s announcement came after security forces attacked
protesters -- many of them majority Shiite Muslims in the Sunni-
ruled island nation -- for a second day. Doctors in Manama
treated bullet wounds and broken bones among demonstrators
urging the government’s ouster.  Bullet Wounds  More than 100 people were wounded and being treated at
Salmaniya Hospital, Ahmed Jamal, president of the Bahrain
medical society, said after today’s clashes. Ghassen Dhaif, a
surgeon in a Salmaniya operating room, said four are in critical
condition and some have been hit by live bullets. “It couldn’t
be from a rubber bullet,” Dhaif said.  The crackdown took place during a fifth day of protests,
drawing the week’s biggest crowd, in the Persian Gulf island
nation, where at least five people have been killed in the
turmoil.  Abdulwahab Hussain, a senior Shiite Muslim leader, earlier
today told more than 10,000 demonstrators that the government
must resign and parliament should shut down pending a transition
to democracy.  The dissent in Bahrain and elsewhere, including  Jordan  and
Kuwait, follows the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular
movements in Egypt and  Tunisia  and marks the spread of unrest
into the Gulf, where most of the Middle East’s oil is produced.    Oil Prices   Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 35 cents at $86.71 a barrel at 1:19 p.m. London
time.  Brent crude  for April settlement was down 35 cents at
$102.24 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , after
reaching a 2 1/2-year high this week.  President Obama is “deeply concerned by reports of
violence in Bahrain, Libya and Yemen,” according to a statement
read to reporters traveling with the Obama today on Air Force
One by White House spokesman Jay Carney. The U.S. urges regimes
“to show restraint in responding to peaceful protest and to
respect the rights of their people,” Carney said.  In  Libya , Africa’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves,
activists called for more rallies to remove  Muammar Qaddafi , in
power for more than 40 years.  Human Rights Watch  said 24 have
been killed in protests this week, and  Al Jazeera  television put
the figure as high as 50.  Clashes in Yemen, Djibouti  In Yemen, the biggest crowd since protests began more than
a week ago demanded the ouster of Ali Abdullah Saleh, president
for three decades. Police and government supporters attacked
demonstrators with stones and batons. Three people were killed,
one by a hand grenade thrown at the protesters, Al Jazeera
reported.  Police opened fire on demonstrators in Djibouti, according
to opposition leader Mohamed Daoud Chehem, head of the  Djibouti 
Party for Development.  “The police are confronting demonstrators,” he said by
phone from the protest in the capital, without being able to
specify if anyone was injured or what type of ammunition was
used.  Chehem earlier said that as many as 20,000 people had
joined the protest against President Ismail Guelleh, and that he
expected numbers to swell to 50,000.  Live ammunition was used by both sides and a crowd of
around 100 demonstrators started throwing stones after leaders
of the protest were escorted away, according to Djibouti-based
website Djibouti24. Witnesses saw injured police and
demonstrators with guns were arrested, according to the website.
Fog from tear gas made it difficult to verify how many
demonstrators were injured, it reported.  Cairo Demonstration  Cairo’s Tahrir Square, the center of the popular revolt
that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year rule, was crammed with tens
of thousands urging the army to stand by the promises of a
transition to democracy it made when assuming power last week.  In Bahrain, protesters blamed security forces for the
violence. “We were walking holding the Bahrain flag, more than
2,000 people, and suddenly they shot at us,” Nabil Ali, a 22-
year-old student who was among the protesters, said today. “The
military, they shot us.”  Protesters were fleeing toward the Salmaniya hospital,
where many had sought refuge or been taken for treatment after
yesterday’s crackdown, in which the army fired tear gas,
buckshot and rubber bullets. Doctor Feras Hashim, an orthopedic
surgeon, said he saw injuries today including bullet wounds,
blunt-force trauma and broken bones.  Brink of Abyss  Earlier, thousands had attended the funeral of two
protesters, hugging their coffins and shouting: “We sacrifice
for Bahrain.”  Bahrain’s authorities said the intervention by security
forces yesterday was necessary to restore order.  “The country was on the brink of a sectarian abyss,”
Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al Khalifa said at a
press conference. “It was a very important step that had to
happen. Police took every care possible.”  The protesters are calling for a constitutional monarchy
and a change of government in the Shiite-majority country. The
prime minister, the focus of the demonstrators’ demands, has
held the office for four decades. Shiites make up some 60 to 70
percent of the population, which is about 740,000 according to
the CIA World Factbook, and claim discrimination by the
country’s Sunni ruling family and its supporters.  ‘Marred by Violence’  At a rival pro-government demonstration, hundreds of cars
looped around central Manama, waving flags. Some had Qatari
license plates.  “We were shocked at the protests, we love the royal
family,” said Mai al-Majid, 30, a central bank employee. The
king “listens to what everyone has to say and his door is open
to everyone.”  The cost of insuring Bahrain debt rose for a fifth day,
climbing 18 basis points to 302, the highest in 17 months,
according to CMA prices for credit default swaps. Fitch Ratings
yesterday put Bahrain on rating-watch negative, saying the
protests “increase the risks to the sovereign’s credit
profile.”  Swap contracts for  Saudi Arabia , used as a measure of
confidence although the country has no debt to insure, jumped
10.5 basis points to 137, the highest since July 2009, on
concern the unrest may spread to the world’s biggest oil
exporter, which neighbors Bahrain and has a Shiite minority
population in the Eastern Province, where most of its oil is
produced.    Iran  Crackdown  Saudi Arabia’s main regional rival, Shiite-ruled Iran, has
also experienced protests this week, and deployed security
forces to suppress a Feb. 14 rally by opposition movements to
show solidarity with the Arab revolts. Many Shiite Bahrainis
retain cultural and family ties with Iran, while Bahrain’s Sunni
ruling family has links with Saudi Arabia.  In Libya, small groups set fires in the streets of the
capital, Tripoli, and the office of internal security was set
ablaze in Benghazi, the  BBC  reported today. Pro-government
rallies have taken place in Tripoli and Qaddafi has been meeting
with tribal leaders to solicit their support, Al Jazeera said.  Gunfire broke out in Yemen’s capital, Sanaa, on the eighth
straight day of anti-government demonstrations. More than 20,000
protesters streamed out of Friday prayers toward the
presidential palace, overwhelming police efforts to contain
them. “After Mubarak, Ali,” they chanted, calling on President
Ali Abdullah Saleh to quit.  Saleh said this month he won’t seek another term when the
current one ends in 2013. “A number” of people have been
killed since demonstrations began, the official Saba news agency
said yesterday, without elaborating.  Tear Gas, Rubber Bullets  Kuwaiti authorities used tear gas, rubber bullets and water
cannons to break up a demonstration by about 1,000 stateless
residents west of  Kuwait  City today. The government says there
are about 100,000 stateless people in the country. Many don’t
have access to basic services such as medical care and
education.  Eight people were injured in Jordan in clashes between
government supporters and protesters demanding wider rights and
higher  living standards , Al Arabiya television said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  