-- 
BofA Unit’s Utah Foreclosures Violate Law, State Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-02-17T21:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bank-of-america-unit-s-utah-foreclosures-violate-law-ag-says.html
A  Bank of America Corp . unit is
breaking the law by foreclosing on homeowners in  Utah  because it
doesn’t meet state requirements, the state attorney general’s
office said in a federal appeals court case.  ReconTrust Co., a subsidiary of Bank of America, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets, isn’t a member of the state bar
or a title insurance company and is unqualified to carry out
trustee foreclosures, Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff wrote
in court papers filed yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Denver.  “ReconTrust Co. N.A. is a non-depository national bank
initiating approximately 4,000 home foreclosures in Utah each
year in violation of Utah law,” the attorney general’s office
said.  The court filing was made in a homeowner’s lawsuit against
ReconTrust and Bank of America.  “National banks must abide by state law,” said John
Christian Barlow, an attorney for the homeowner, Peni Cox.
“ReconTrust just wants to foreclose, period,” he said.  A Utah state judge issued an injunction last year blocking
ReconTrust from trustee foreclosure sales in the state, Barlow
said. A federal judge later lifted the injunction.  ‘Applicable Laws’  “It is Bank of America and its related affiliates’ policy
to handle foreclosures in compliance with applicable laws,”  Jumana Bauwens , a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe the district court was correct in
its ruling in our favor and believe the ruling should not change
as a result of this appeal.”  Recontrust also was stopped from conducting nonjudicial
foreclosures, or those that don’t require court supervision, in
Nevada by a state judge. A  Nevada  federal judge later dissolved
the state court order, allowing foreclosures to proceed.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , argued
in court papers that it has the authority to conduct
foreclosures in Utah under the federal National Bank Act. Under
that law, only statutes of the state where the bank is located
can be applied to fiduciary activities, Bank of America said.  No other state laws limiting or establishing preconditions
are applicable to national banks, it said. ReconTrust is based
in  California  and its trust operations for Utah foreclosures
take place in  Texas , according to the court filing.  The case is Cox v. ReconTrust Co., 10-04117, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 