-- 
Berkowitz Sees Profitable St. Joe With Changes in Landowner's Management

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-02-17T18:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/berkowitz-sees-profitable-st-joe-with-changes-in-landowner-s-management.html
  Bruce Berkowitz , the  fund manager 
seeking to oust the board of  St. Joe  Co., said the money-losing
Florida landowner can become profitable under new management.  Berkowitz, whose Fairholme Capital Management LLC is the
developer’s biggest shareholder, is seeking investors for St.
Joe land, he said in an interview today. The change in control
at  General Growth Properties Inc ., the Chicago-based mall owner
that exited bankruptcy last year, can be a model for a
turnaround, he said.  “We did it there,” Berkowitz said in a telephone
interview today. “The restructuring, new management, all done
in less than a year.”  Fairholme, William Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP and  Brookfield Asset Management Inc . committed
more than $8 billion to bring General Growth out of bankruptcy.
Fairholme agreed to sell its stake in the mall owner to
Brookfield in January in a deal valued at about $1.7 billion.  Berkowitz and Fairholme President Charles M. Fernandez
resigned from St. Joe’s board this week after disagreements over
its compensation, nominating and governance process. They hired
executive search firm  Spencer Stuart  to solicit investor
approval to replace the board of the Watersound, Florida-based
company, which has lost money for 10 consecutive quarters.  St. Joe Opposition  St. Joe’s board “adamantly opposes” Fairholme’s plans,
the company said in a statement yesterday. The developer, which
has hired Morgan Stanley to explore strategic alternatives, said
Berkowitz is attempting to take control “through a costly and
disruptive proxy contest.”  St. Joe Chief Executive Officer William Britton Greene had
total compensation of $2.8 million in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That year, St. Joe reported a loss of
$130 million on revenue of $138.3 million.  “We could bring in tomorrow fabulously successful, proven
executives in this space at half the price,” said Berkowitz,
who was named the top U.S. stock manager of the decade last year
by Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based research firm. “It can
all be done quickly. It gets complex when roadblocks are put up
everywhere in order to protect self interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 