-- 
Berlusconi Hangs On as Tremonti Keeps Italian Budget Deficit Under Control

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-17T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/berlusconi-hangs-on-as-tremonti-keeps-italian-budget-deficit-under-control.html
By his own reckoning, since becoming
Italy’s prime minister,  Silvio Berlusconi  has endured 105
judicial probes and trials and 2,500 court hearings, and spent
more than 300 million euros ($409 million) in legal fees
defending himself against allegations of  tax fraud , bribery,
corruption, and more. That’s 48,000 euros a day since he was
first elected in 1994, when he parlayed his celebrity as a media
baron and one of  Italy’s richest men  into a political career.  No conviction of Berlusconi has survived Italy’s tortuous
appeals process, a fact the prime minister cites as evidence
that his judicial tormentors are nothing more than closet
communists who want to bring him down, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Feb. 21 issue. His latest trial begins April 6.
Prosecutors in Milan allege that the prime minister paid to have 
sex with a minor -- a young Moroccan dancer whose stage name is 
Ruby Heartstealer -- and that he abused the power of his office 
to cover his tracks.  “I’m not the least bit worried,” Berlusconi said at a
 press conference  in  Rome  on Feb. 16, the day after the
indictments were handed down.  Salacious details of Berlusconi’s off-duty life, like
allegations of suggestive dances with young girls in the bunga-
bunga room of his villa, have made Berlusconi the butt of jokes.
From economist  Nouriel Roubini ’s  Twitter page : “Berlusconi’s
defense: I screwed all Italians for 15 years for free and no one
complained; now that I screw one and pay her, they give me
hell.” In demonstrations on Feb. 13, hundreds of thousands of
Italian women called for Berlusconi’s resignation and an end to
the sexism they feel he has done so much to promote. Their
slogan: “If not now, when?”  Northern League  The answer may be, not just yet. Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party and its coalition ally, the Northern League, cling
to a tiny majority in Parliament. In a Feb. 8 poll about
possible early elections, 61 percent of respondents said
Berlusconi should resign. Yet the survey indicating that many
voters abandoning Berlusconi may shift to the  Northern League ,
not the opposition, so his alliance maintained a 3 percentage
point lead over the biggest opposition bloc. The  Democratic
Party , the pillar of the opposition coalition, is stuck in
the political wilderness, with three leaders in three years.  With no compelling alternative, many Italians may vote for
Berlusconi again if his legal troubles lead to elections before
his term expires in 2013. He has a core following among voters
who share his conviction that the Democratic Party is riddled
with communists, or who admire him as Italy’s ultimate self-made
man and model of virility.  Averting Catastrophe  Berlusconi also has a secret weapon: Giulio Tremonti, his
finance minister. While Tremonti has not reversed the widening
economic divide between Italy and its main European Union
partners, he has averted the kind of catastrophe that dragged
down Ireland and  Greece .  That’s an achievement, given that the  International
Monetary Fund  last May described Italy’s economic performance as
 “dismal.”  Among the failings cited were low productivity,
rigid labor markets and a bloated public sector. Italy’s gross
domestic product grew at an average rate of 1.5 percent a year
from 1999 to 2007, compared with 2.2 percent for the EU. Last
year growth was 1.1 percent, following a 2009 contraction in GDP
of 5 percent.  A tax lawyer by training, the 63-year-old Tremonti has kept
the public accounts in order. He has tempered Berlusconi’s
populist instincts by playing bad cop to his boss’s good cop.
That meant blocking the kind of stimulus spending that helped
turn  Spain ’s 2007 budget surplus into a deficit of 9.3 percent
of GDP by last year.  Bad Cop  “He is seen as the guarantor of fiscal discipline during a
period when other governments were much more relaxed on the
fiscal front,” said Chiara Corsa, an economist at UniCredit
Bank in Milan. As a result, Italy’s budget shortfall was a
manageable 5 percent of GDP last year.  Overall debt remains almost 120 percent of GDP, versus 76
percent for  Germany . The yield premium that investors demand to
hold Italian 10-year bonds over German debt has roughly doubled
since early 2010. That is still less than half the gap between
yields on German debt and the sky-high yields on Portuguese,
Irish, and Greek bonds.  Tremonti, a northern Italian who first ran for Parliament
as a Socialist and who regularly rails against the ills of
globalization, is known for using creative methods to keep  Italy ’s deficit in check. He has fashioned a series of amnesties
for tax dodgers that pardoned the transgressions for a fee that
was lower than the maximum penalties. In the most recent
amnesty, Italians paid the government 5 billion euros to have
100 billion euros of undeclared funds regularized.  Creative Methods  Both Berlusconi and Tremonti have gotten an assist from
high private savings levels, which helped ordinary Italians
weather the depths of the recent recession fairly intact,
despite an 8.6 percent jobless rate. Private debt in Italy is
only 42 percent of GDP, versus 118 percent for Ireland.  Tremonti has told EU authorities they should take this low
private debt level into account when figuring out how to improve
Europe’s finances. EU authorities want mandatory debt-reduction
targets for the union’s most-leveraged states. Tremonti argues
that  Europe ’s debt crisis was caused by reckless banks and  hedge
funds , not public spending. “Public debt isn’t the cause of the
crisis. It’s the medicine,” he says.  ‘Evil of Italy’  Tremonti could end up succeeding the 74-year-old Berlusconi
if his boss’s position weakens dramatically and his party starts
to disintegrate. For now, Berlusconi’s supporters defend their
man and accuse the judiciary of trying to override the will of
voters, who re-elected Berlusconi by a landslide in 2008.  Berlusconi’s opponents, meanwhile, wonder whether Italy can
ever move beyond its fascination with the man. “We think the
evil of Italy is Berlusconi,” says Luigi Zingales, professor of
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
and a graduate of Milan’s  Bocconi University . “I think the evil
of Italy is a culture that makes Berlusconi a normal politician.
That is much more difficult to change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  