-- 
Bill Winters Gets Rothschild Funding for Renshaw Bay

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-02-17T14:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bill-winters-gets-rothschild-funding-for-renshaw-bay-update2-.html
  Bill Winters , the former co-chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s investment bank,
started an asset management and advisory firm with funding from  Jacob Rothschild ’s  RIT Capital Partners Plc .  Winters, 49, will own 50 percent of the new company called
Renshaw Bay, according to a statement. London-based investment
trust RIT and  Reinet Investments SCA , a Luxembourg-based
investment company chaired by Johann Rupert, will own the rest.  Winters was ousted by JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon in September
2009 after 26 years at the bank. He was last year named to the
U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking, which is reviewing the
structure of the country’s financial-services industry.  “Bill Winters, RIT and Reinet each intend to invest
substantial capital,” according to the statement. “The
business may also seek to build out or acquire its own
investment management capabilities.”  Renshaw Bay will work “focus on risk management and
alignment between investors and investment managers,” Winters
said in the statement. It will “cooperate closely” with RIT
Capital, which is chaired by Jacob Rothschild. Winters will
become a non-executive director of RIT Capital. RIT Capital’s
investments include  Vallar Plc , a mining investment company
founded by Jacob’s son, Nathaniel.  “Bill Winters has proven to be among a handful of truly
exceptional leaders in the global finance community,”
Rothschild said.  Reinet’s Rupert is chairman of Geneva-based Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry maker. Reinet was
created in 2008 when Richemont span off its tobacco and
technology investments. In 2009, Reinet bought a stake in a
private equity fund from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
bankrupt U.S. securities firm.  “I have come to know Bill well,” Rupert said. “He has an
exceptional track record.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  