-- 
Bloomberg's New York City Budget Said to Include Dismissing 4,666 Teachers

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bloomberg-s-new-york-city-budget-said-to-include-firing-of-4-666-teachers.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
will present a preliminary budget for next fiscal year today
that proposes reducing the city’s 80,000 teachers by 6,166,
including 4,666 dismissals, administration officials said.  An improving economy has helped pour about $2 billion of
unanticipated revenue into city coffers, though it’s not enough
to avoid personnel cuts, said the officials, who have seen the
proposal. In November, Bloomberg said he would eliminate 10,000
of the most-populous U.S. city’s 300,000 workers to close a $2.4
billion deficit in a $67.5 billion spending plan.  The revenue boost will replace $2.1 billion in state aid
Bloomberg said he had expected, and which Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
omitted in his Feb. 1 budget proposal, said the officials, who
declined to be named before the mayor’s speech today. The
preliminary budget must go to the City Council for negotiations
and be approved before the July 1 start of fiscal 2012.  “We have been able to keep making  New York City  a safer
and more attractive place to live, raise a family and run a
business -- and the latest economic news reflects that,” said
Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson in an e-mail. “But right now we
face very difficult decisions on how to balance the budget
without harming the progress we have made, especially in our
schools.”  Bloomberg, 69, has called on state lawmakers to permit him
to fire teachers based upon performance rather than through a
last-in, first-out seniority system.  “The only thing worse than laying off teachers would be
laying off the wrong teachers,” Wolfson said.  Teacher Dismissals  Michael Mulgrew, president of the  United Federation of
Teachers , has opposed teacher dismissals with a television ad
calling for increased taxes on the city’s highest-income earners
rather than school spending cuts.  “Our schools are short of money, yet he refuses to ask
millionaires to pay their fair share,” the ad’s narrator says.  Mulgrew called the notion of firing teachers “a bogus
strategy” in a statement late yesterday.  “Given the city’s growing revenues, along with the
governor’s clear statement that the state budget should not
require local layoffs, the mayor’s insistence on teacher layoffs
becomes more and more bizarre,” Mulgrew said. “We’ve already
lost nearly 5,000 teachers to attrition in the last two years,
and class sizes are skyrocketing.”  Today’s presentation in City Hall will mark the 10th
occasion in which Bloomberg has proposed a budget since first
taking office in 2002. While unaffiliated with a political
party, he won election to a third term in 2009 running on the
Republican and Independence Party lines.  Raised Taxes  In that time he raised taxes and borrowed to close deficits
for two years of national recession and recovery from the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks. He then applied surplus revenue to
lower debt service and pay future employee health-care
obligations as  Wall Street  prospered in the last decade.  Bloomberg has also said he wants the Legislature to grant
him power to negotiate pension benefits in collective bargaining
with unions.  Pension costs , now about $7 billion, will rise to
about $8.3 billion in 2012, from $1.4 billion in 2002, he has
said.  The city has gone through nine rounds of administration-
ordered budget cuts since March 2007 to reduce spending by a
total of more than $5 billion by 2012, the officials said.  The  November spending plan  included a hiring freeze and an
increase in parking-meter rates.  To reduce debt-service, which will cost about $6 billion in
2012, the mayor has proposed a 20 percent cut in the city’s 10-
year capital spending plan. The plan for 2010 through 2019
anticipated spending $61.9 billion, of which $47 billion comes
from municipal funds.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  