-- 
BOE's `Game Changer' Prompts Economists to Alter Interest-Rate Forecasts

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-17T12:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/boe-s-game-changer-brings-forward-rate-increase-forecasts.html
The  Bank of England ’s inflation
projections prompted economists at banks including  Barclays
Capital  to bring forward their forecast for the first interest-
rate increase this year.  Barclays economist  Simon Hayes  said policy makers are
“leaning toward a rate hike over the next few months” after
the central bank published its Inflation Report in London.  Hayes, a former Bank of England official, changed his
prediction for the first rate increase to May from November,
while Hetal Mehta at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  now sees the
first increase in August rather than November. She described the
report as a “game changer.”  The central bank projected in its Inflation Report
yesterday that consumer-price growth will accelerate to about
4.4 percent this year before easing to its 2 percent target by
the middle of 2012. Risks are “skewed to the upside,” it said.
The outlook is based on its benchmark interest rate rising from
a record low of 0.5 percent to 1 percent this year and 2 percent
by the end of 2012.  The pound rose against the dollar today after policy maker  Andrew Sentance  repeated his call for higher  interest rates . He
also said that the bank can’t be “relaxed” about price
pressures related to the weakness of the currency, which has
fallen about 20 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the
start of 2007.  Sterling appreciated as much as 0.3 percent, and traded at
$1.6125 at 11:38 a.m. in London. It also strengthened 0.3
percent against the euro to 84.05 pence.  ‘Too Optimistic’  The central bank’s forecasts for inflation to return to
target are “too optimistic,” Sentance, who has voted for rate
increases every month since June, said in a speech in London
today. Policy “‘would most likely need to be tightened faster
and by more than the markets currently expect to bring inflation
back to target.”    Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, also revised his rate forecast and sees the Monetary Policy
Committee increasing it in May rather than November. He said
there is a “modest risk” of a move next month.  “Maintaining policy credibility seems to require some
action -- rhetoric is unlikely to suffice,” he said. Still,
“it is difficult to see the MPC raising  bank rate  by much more
than 50 basis points given the fragile growth trajectory and the
likelihood that inflation is falling back in the second half.”  ‘Best’ Judgment  U.K. inflation accelerated to a 26-month high of 4 percent
last month, boosted by  oil prices  and a sales-tax increase. King
said the “best collective judgment of the committee is that the
chances of inflation being above or below the target” by the
end of bank’s forecast period are “broadly equal.”  Investors scaled back their bets on rate increases this
year after King said policy makers haven’t preannounced any
moves and that “some people are running ahead of themselves.”  “That decision has not been taken and it won’t be taken
until we get to the next meeting, or the following meeting,”
King said. “It may be many quarters before we do anything.”  The yield on short-sterling futures expiring in December
has fallen 8 basis points this week 1.7 percent today.  The Inflation Report “worked to knock down some of the
expectations that have built around monetary tightening in
recent weeks, even if the specter of a rate hike being delivered
at some point during the coming months was not entirely
removed,” said Stuart Green, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Although the upside risks to inflation may eventually force
some monetary tightening over the two-year forecast horizon, the
uncertain growth environment dictates that no pre-commitment on
rates exists.”  “Any move higher in rates is likely to fall well short of
current market pricing,” Green said. He maintained a forecast
that the bank will not raise its key interest rate this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  