-- 
Borders Bankruptcy May Snuff Ackman’s Merger Ambitions

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-02-17T21:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/borders-bankruptcy-may-snuff-ackman-s-stake-merger-ambitions.html
  William Ackman , whose stake in  Borders Group Inc . will probably be wiped out by bankruptcy,
also may be thwarted in his ambition to wed the bookstore chain
to larger  Barnes & Noble Inc ., analysts say.  The founder of hedge-fund firm Pershing Square Capital
Management LP sought in December to help Borders fund a purchase
of Barnes & Noble. Borders filed for bankruptcy yesterday in New
York after four years of sales declines, and now plans to shut
about 40 percent of its superstores in the next several weeks.  Barnes & Noble probably will avoid a Borders purchase
because the chain doesn’t have an appealing digital reading
business or much attractive real estate, said Peter Wahlstrom,
an analyst for Morningstar Investment Services in  Chicago .
Instead, Barnes & Noble may seek a chunk of the more than $500
million in sales Borders’s collapse will free up.  “Barnes & Noble hasn’t expressed an interest to expand
their number of stores,” Wahlstrom said. The company needs to
focus on digital reading because “if you take your eye off the
growth ball, you risk exposing yourself to the same kind of fate
as Borders.” Barnes & Noble itself is shutting stores, cutting
the count by 10 percent over the last four years.  Pershing owns about 31.3 percent of Borders’s publicly
traded equity interests, according to a court petition filed
yesterday.  Pershing’s Stake  Pershing bought 5.1 million shares of Borders in the third
quarter of 2006 when the stock traded between $18 and $20. The
value of Pershing’s stake in common stock peaked at $173.3
million in March 2007 and the holdings increased to 10.6 million
by the end of 2007.  Ackman, 44, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble, and  Mary Davis ,
a spokeswoman for  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders, declined to
comment.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, rose 7 cents to $18.84
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have surged 24 percent since Dec. 9, when Borders said it
planned to refinance its debt and might face a liquidity
shortfall.  This month, Ackman said Pershing lost $125 million on its
investment in Borders. The retailer, whose market value has
shrunk by more than $3 billion since 1998, racked up losses by
failing to adapt as consumers switched to digital readers.  Borders Sale  Borders put itself up for sale in March 2008 and
speculation mounted that Barnes & Noble would buy it. Pershing
owned shares of both companies at the time. Borders ended the
process in November of that year without finding a bidder, and
Pershing sold its Barnes & Noble stake in December 2008.  Ackman also approached  Leonard Riggio , founder and chairman
of Barnes & Noble, and Ronald Burkle, a large Barnes & Noble
investor, about combining the companies, according to court
documents and testimony from a lawsuit last year. Riggio
declined to pursue a deal for Borders because he didn’t want any
more exposure to retail space, court documents showed.  On Dec. 6, Pershing offered to help Borders fund an all-
cash acquisition of Barnes & Noble for $16 a share, valuing the
chain at about $960 million. At the time, Barnes & Noble
declined to respond.  Now Borders’s bankruptcy could put $550 million in revenue
up for grabs, Gary Balter, an analyst for Credit Suisse, wrote
yesterday in a note to clients. The closings may increase sales
at Barnes & Noble superstores 6 percent, said Balter, who has a
“neutral” rating on Barnes & Noble shares.  Digital Books  Those sales also could go online instead. The emergence of
digital books, which account for about 10 percent of U.S. book
sales, has led to competition from  Apple Inc . and  Sony Corp .
Online bookseller  Amazon.com Inc . has only bolstered its lead in
the market with its best-selling Kindle digital reader,
introduced in 2007.  Although the impact of Borders’s bankruptcy won’t be as
great on Barnes & Noble as it would have been five years ago,
“the majority of book sales are still physical books,”  Michael Souers , an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York, said in an
interview. “Overall, it’s a benefit for Barnes & Noble.”  Both book chains have posted annual declines in sales at
stores open at least a year, a key indicator of growth because
new and closed stores are excluded. In the quarter ended Oct.
30, Barnes & Noble’s same-store sales fell 3.3 percent and
Borders’s dropped 12.6 percent.  The Nook marks one of the differences between the chains.
While Barnes & Noble invested in its own e-reader and e-book
library to compete with Amazon’s Kindle, Borders decided to sell
a handful of devices from manufacturers such as Sony in its
stores and partnered with Kobo Inc. to run its digital
bookstore.  “If digital is the one area of growth in the industry, you
have to set your sights on an Amazon and an Apple, and not worry
about the other physical booksellers,” Morningstar’s Wahlstrom
said. “Barnes & Noble has bigger fish to fry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  