-- 
Blockbuster, Borders, Ambac, TerreStar: Bankruptcy

-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-02-17T13:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/borders-ambac-terrestar-point-blank-mers-bankruptcy.html
Movie rental chain  Blockbuster Inc .
may be running out of cash or might liquidate, if papers filed
last night by the landlords for 38 stores are correct. Or,
Blockbuster may be on the cusp of another round of store
closings.  The landlords say they haven’t been paid February’s rent,
even though bankruptcy law requires “timely” payment on leases
after a Chapter 11 filing.  The landlords want the bankruptcy judge either to require
immediate payment of rent or declare the leases rejected. A
hearing date hasn’t been set on the motion. The landlords
include  Centro Properties Group  and USB Realty Investors LLC.  Blockbuster is already scheduled to face Summit
Entertainment LLC at a Feb. 24 hearing where the video supplier
alleges it hasn’t been paid for goods delivered after
bankruptcy.  Blockbuster filed an operating report for five weeks ended
Jan. 1 showing a $26.1 million operating loss on total revenue
of $206.5 million.  The net loss was $11.7 million thanks to a reversal of $6.1
million in reorganization costs and $9.3 million of income from
non-bankrupt subsidiaries.  Blockbuster had cash on Jan. 2 of $66.2 million. At the
same time, accounts payable were $145.8 million, with accrued
expenses at $194.4 million.  Blockbuster filed under Chapter 11 after negotiating the
outline of a debt-for-equity swap with holders of 80 percent of
the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes. The plan
and accompanying disclosure statement are yet to be filed.  After bankruptcy, Blockbuster rejected approximately 220
leases for stores previously closing. Blockbuster said it would
close 72 additional stores by the end of 2010 and another
approximately 110 in the first quarter of 2011.  Dallas-based Blockbuster began reorganization in September
with 5,600 stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. and the remainder
abroad. Among the U.S. stores, 3,000 were owned. The rest are
franchised. About 200 stores closed before bankruptcy.  The petition listed assets of $1.017 billion against debt
of $1.465 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  Updates  Borders Trade Suppliers Owed $302 Million    Borders Group Inc ., the book retailer that filed for
reorganization yesterday in New York, will close 200 of its 642
stores initially and may close another 75.  The going-out-of-business sales will be conducted by a
joint venture among Hilco Merchant Resources LLC, SB Capital
Group LLC and Tiger Capital Corp. There will be an auction to
test whether another group of liquidators will make a better
offer.  Borders, based in Ann Arbor,  Michigan , listed assets of
$1.275 billion and liabilities totaling $1.293 billion. Debt
includes $196 million owing on a revolving credit where General
Electric Capital Corp. and Bank of America NA are agents. There
is a $48.6 million  term loan , secured by other assets, with GA
Capital LLC as agent.  Trade suppliers are owed $302 million for inventory.  Borders has a commitment for $505 million in financing
where GECC and GA Capital will be agents. When Borders was
trying to avoid a bankruptcy filing, GECC made a commitment for
$550 million in secured financing. The commitment had several
conditions Borders couldn’t satisfy. For details on the
conditions, click here for the Jan. 28 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Unlike the pre-bankruptcy version, the $505 million
financing commitment has no requirement for $125 million in
subordinate financing. The loan provides for $400 million to be
available on an interim basis.  At the so-called first-day hearing yesterday, Borders was
given interim approval for the loan. The new financing will pay
off the existing term loan and revolving credit.  Lacking capital to be a “viable competitor,” Borders said
it will use Chapter 11 to provide “the opportunity to achieve a
proper infusion of capital.” Elsewhere in the bankruptcy
papers, Borders blamed its failure on “external economic and
competitive factors.”  In negotiations before bankruptcy, trade suppliers were
represented by Lowenstein Sandler PC. Landlords were using
Kelley Drye & Warren LLP as counsel.  Borders is 31 percent owned by Pershing Square Capital
Management LP and 15.4 percent by LeBow Gamma LP.  Borders generated net sales of $2.3 billion for the fiscal
year ended Jan. 29. Through Dec. 25, the loss was about $168
million, court papers said. For the fiscal year ended Jan. 30,
2010, the net loss was $110.2 million and the operating loss was
$84.9 million on revenue of $2.791 billion.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here and here.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ambac Aims to Stop IRS Suit in Federal District Court    Ambac Financial Group Inc ., the parent holding company for
an insurance company partially in rehabilitation, will be in
bankruptcy court today looking for a preliminary injunction to
stop the U.S. Justice Department from continuing a lawsuit filed
on behalf of the Internal Revenue Service in a federal district
court in Wisconsin.  The suit for the IRS aims at setting aside an order from a
Wisconsin state court prohibiting the IRS from collecting taxes
from subsidiary Ambac Assurance Corp., the municipal bond
insurer with $50 billion in policies undergoing rehabilitation.  The Ambac parent contends the suit for the IRS violated an
agreed order signed by the bankruptcy judge in November where
the government agreed to give five days’ notice before taking
any action to collect taxes. Ambac wants the Wisconsin federal
court suit halted by the bankruptcy judge for failure to give
the required five days’ notice.  Ambac said in its papers this week that the IRS suit could
wreck both the subsidiary insurance company’s rehabilitation and
the parent’s Chapter 11 case. The IRS, among other things, is
likely intent on recovering $700 million in refunds paid last
year, most of which went to the insurance subsidiary.  Click here for the story in the Nov. 10 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report about the disputes with the IRS, and click
here for the Feb. 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy report and a rundown
on the new suit on behalf of the IRS.  At today’s hearing, the creditors’ committee is opposing
Ambac’s requested six month extension of the exclusive right to
file a plan. The committee says no plan is yet filed because
company executives are “hopelessly conflicted” given that they
also serve as officers for the insurance subsidiary.  The committee says the only plan they will support would
contain provisions disadvantageous to the subsidiary.  The committee listed several disputes standing in the way
of a plan for the parent. The principal unresolved issue
involves how tax-loss carryforwards will be shared between
parent and subsidiary.  In January the Wisconsin state court approved a plan for
rehabilitation of the part of Ambac Assurance that’s in
rehabilitation. Policy holders are to receive 25 percent in cash
and the remainder in notes.  The insurance subsidiary stopped paying dividends to the
parent in 2007 and stopped writing new business entirely in
mid-2008. The Ambac parent filed under Chapter 11 in November.
The Ambac parent listed assets of $90.7 million and liabilities
totaling $1.624 billion, virtually all unsecured. Nearly all the
debt is made of up $1.622 billion owing on seven note issues.
One issue for $400 million is subordinated.  The new suit for the IRS is U.S. v. Wisconsin State Circuit
Court for Dane County, 11-00099, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Wisconsin (Madison). The state case is In re The
Rehabilitation of Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corp.,
2010cv001576, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).
The parent’s Chapter 11 case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc ., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  TerreStar Abandons Plan, Holding Company Files  TerreStar Corp., the indirect parent of TerreStar Networks
Inc., filed under Chapter 11 yesterday along with subsidiary
TerreStar Holdings Inc.  In court, TerreStar Networks said it was dropping the
Chapter 11 reorganization plan that was scheduled for approval
at a March 4 confirmation hearing. The company previously said
it would pursue a sale to produce a more favorable outcome for
creditors.  Along with the new Chapter 11 filings yesterday, the
companies said that TerreStar New York Inc. and six Motient
companies will drop out of the consolidated proceedings with
TerreStar Networks. Those companies will reorganize together
with the two that filed in Chapter 11 yesterday.  The court filings said the two groups of companies will
move ahead on different timetables in view of “substantial
differences between their businesses, stakeholders, and the
circumstances that required them to seek Chapter 11 relief.”  For the parent holding company, Solus Alternative Asset
Management LP is to provide a $13.4 million in financing.  Under the plan that TerreStar Networks, a satellite-based
mobile phone provider, abandoned yesterday, control of the
business would have gone to EchoStar Corp. For details on the
now-abandoned plan, click here for the Dec. 23 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, provides mobile
satellite coverage throughout the U.S. and  Canada  where
traditional mobile networks are unavailable.  EchoStar is a television equipment and satellite services
company.  TerreStar Networks listed assets $1.4 billion and debt
totaling $1.64 billion. In addition to $944 million in 15
percent senior secured pay-in-kind notes and $179 million in 6.5
percent exchangeable pay-in-kind notes, debt includes $86
million on a purchase money credit agreement.  The older case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The holding company case is In re  TerreStar Corp .,
11-10612, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Filing  Alabama Aircraft Files in  Delaware  to Bust Pensions  Alabama Aircraft Industries Inc., a provider of scheduled
 maintenance  for U.S. military aircraft, filed for Chapter 11
relief on Feb. 15 in Delaware after negotiations with the union
failed regarding the pension plan.  AAI, previously known as Pemco Aeroplex Inc., operates
under a long-term lease at the Birmingham International Airport
in Alabama. The company chiefly maintains and repairs transport,
tanker and patrol aircraft.  The company said it’s been unable to make required $5.7
million annual payments toward the pension plan for union
workers. At the end of 2010, the plan was underfunded by $31.5
million, court papers says. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.
is putting liens on the assets as a result.  The PBGC is listed with the largest unsecured claim, $68.5
million.  AAI said negotiations failed with the union over reducing
pension obligations under the collective bargaining agreement.
Saying pension obligations were the “primary driving force”
behind bankruptcy, the company said it will invoke powers in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code “in the near term” to reduce ongoing
pension obligations.  A fund affiliated with Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC is
owed $2.5 million on a note.  A court paper said assets were on the books for more than
$32 million in September.  The case is In re  Alabama Aircraft Industries Inc .,
11-10452, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Default  Ahern Misses Bond Interest Payment, Price Down 37%  Ahern Rentals Inc., a Las Vegas-based equipment supplier,
didn’t make a $10.9 million interest payment due Feb. 15 on the
$236.7 million in 9.25 percent second-lien notes.  Ahern said it has a forbearance agreement covering the $350
million first-lien revolving credit and the $95 million term
loan.  Ahern said that the nonpayment had “support” from a
majority of the holders of the defaulted notes. Ahern said there
has been a “significant improvement” in the business.  The bonds last traded yesterday at 35.5 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Yesterday’s last
trade represented a 37 percent decline from 56 cents on the
dollar, the last reported trade the day before.  Ahern had 72 locations in November.  The company reported a $39.1 million operating loss in the
first three quarters of 2010 on revenue of $213 million. The net
loss for the period was $67.1 million. Over the same period in
2009, the net loss was 448.2 million.  Downgrade  Dave & Buster’s Downgraded on Dividend to Owners  Dave & Buster’s Inc. was downgraded one notch yesterday by  Standard & Poor’s  to a B- corporate credit on news the
restaurant operator would issue $100 million in new pay-in-kind
notes to finance a dividend to shareholders.  The senior unsecured notes also fell one notch to CCC+.  The 57 restaurant and entertainment complexes were acquired
in May by management and Oak Hill Capital Partners.  The company is based in Dallas.  Daily Podcast  Registration Exemptions, MERS Problems, Hotel: Bankruptcy Audio  The bankruptcy podcast discusses how  Point Blank Solutions
Inc . may be the test case for the Securities and Exchange
Commission in stopping an allegedly improper use of equity
rights offerings. Next, the implications arising from the
decision by a New York bankruptcy judge ruling that the MERS
system for recording mortgages can’t be used to prove who owns a
mortgage or mortgage note is analyzed. Bloomberg Law’s Lee
Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle
close by talking about the ability to purchase an uncompleted
hotel near the airport in Las Vegas. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Market Value Not Proper When Markets Disfunctional  Market value when the markets are dysfunctional is not the
proper value for calculating damages from termination of a
repurchase agreement, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
ruled yesterday.  The case involved  American Home Mortgage Investment Corp .,
as the company was known when it filed under Chapter 11 in
August 2007. It made so-called Alt-A loans to individuals who
couldn’t qualify as prime borrowers but still weren’t subprime.
The mortgage servicing business was sold to Wilbur Ross’ newly
formed AH Mortgage Acquisition Co.  Just before bankruptcy, a subsidiary of  Credit Agricole SA 
called a default and terminated a repurchase agreement where the
repurchase price was $1.14 billion for a package of 5,700
mortgage loans with an unpaid principal balance of about $1.2
billion. The bank filed a proof of claim and later claimed the
deficiency in August 2008 was about $480 million.  The parties agreed that the market was “dysfunctional”
when American Home filed in Chapter 11.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  looked at the
governing statute, Section 562 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, held
a trial, heard expert witnesses, applied the discounted cash
flow method of valuation, and concluded that the mortgage loans
on the termination date were worth more than the repurchase
value. Sontchi therefore threw out the bank’s multihundred
million dollar deficiency claim. The bank appealed.  The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia
upheld Sontchi by ruling that market value isn’t the proper
method for valuation when the markets are dysfunctional. The
appeals court said using the discounted cash flow method was
correct.  The circuit court was construing portions of Section 562
which say that the measure of damages for a repurchase agreement
is “commercially reasonable determinants of value.” The court
said that market value isn’t the only measure of damages when
markets are dysfunctional.  The opinion, by Circuit Judge Dolores K. Sloviter, said
that Section 562 is not ambiguous even though the parties have
different interpretations.  The appellate court said Sontchi was also correct when he
said market value is the proper measure of value when markets
are operating properly.  Sloviter said that if Congress meant for market value to be
the only method, it would have said so.  Sloviter said that it was case of first impression, meaning
that no federal circuit court had before ruled on the question.  American Home confirmed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in
February 2009 that was implemented in November 2010.  The appeals court case is Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank New York Branch v. American Home Mortgage
Holdings Inc. (In re American Home Mortgage Holdings Inc.),
09-4295, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Philadelphia). The
case in bankruptcy court is In re American Home Mortgage
Holdings Inc., 07-11047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  