-- 
Borders Wins Approval to Liquidate 200 Stores

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-17T18:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/borders-wins-approval-to-liquidate-200-stores.html
  Borders Group Inc ., the second-
biggest U.S. bookstore chain, won bankruptcy court approval to
liquidate 200 stores in a deal that may bring in $175 million to
creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez  in  Manhattan  today
approved the closings of about 30 percent of Borders’ stores
after a group of liquidators made the highest bid for rights to
sell merchandise and furniture. The sales will begin Feb. 19,
allowing Borders to take advantage of the President’s Day
holiday in the U.S.  “These are neglected stores,” David Friedman, a lawyer for
Borders, told Gonzalez. The shelves are under-stocked, and that
“daily drives away customers, not just from those stores -- it
diminishes the brand as well,” Friedman said.  Hilco Merchant Resources LLC, SB Capital Group, Tiger
Capital Group LLC and Gordon Brothers Group won the bidding to
handle the liquidation sales, Adam Shiff, another lawyer for
Borders, told Gonzalez today. Gordon and Hilco, which initially
led competing groups, joined forces to make the winning bid
after a nine-hour auction that drew 38 bids.  The deal would return almost 86 percent of the cost value
of merchandise at the stores, topping an initial offer from
liquidators led by Hilco that would have returned 73 percent and
brought in about $148 million, Shiff said. The liquidators will
fund operations during the sales and share 50 percent of any
sale proceeds.  ‘Minimizing Distractions’  “The debtors believe bringing in a professional liquidator
will allow them to maximize sale proceeds while minimizing
distractions to management” as it focuses on reorganizing other
stores, Shiff told Gonzalez.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, filed for Chapter 11
protection yesterday after management changes, job cuts and debt
restructuring failed to make up for sagging book sales in the
face of competition from  Amazon.com Inc . and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc .  The company made an emergency request to close at least 200
of its 642 stores, and potentially 75 more, to stem losses of
about $2 million a week. Borders will try to save “thousands
and thousands” of jobs at remaining stores, Friedman told
Gonzalez yesterday. The stores are under the Borders,
Waldenbooks, Borders Express and Borders Outlet names in the
U.S. and  Puerto Rico , according to a court filing.  Gonzalez yesterday allowed Borders to draw $400 million on a
$505 million loan from lenders led by General Electric Capital
Corp. He first demanded that a budget for the bookstore chain’s
use of the money be filed with the court.  Amazon.com  Borders, whose market value shrank by more than $3 billion
since 1998, racked up losses by failing to adapt to shifts in
how consumers shop. Its first e-commerce site debuted in 2008,
more than a decade after Amazon.com revolutionized publishing
with online sales. The world’s largest online retailer beat it
again by moving into digital books with the Kindle e-reader in
2007, a market Borders entered in July.  Gonzalez handled the case today and yesterday in the
absence of Judge Martin Glenn, who was assigned the case.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 