-- 
BP Knew of Halliburton’s Troubles Before Gulf Blowout

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-02-17T22:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bp-knew-of-halliburton-s-troubles-before-gulf-spill-panel-says.html
  BP Plc  failed to “adequately”
supervise  Halliburton Co .’s work at its  Gulf of Mexico  oil well
that ruptured even after uncovering troubles the contractor had
on a different well, according to a presidential panel.  In a 2007 audit, BP found that Halliburton lacked
experience testing well cement work, Fred Bartlit, the chief
counsel for the  National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon
Oil Spill , said today. Issues identified in 2007 “mirrored
problems” at BP’s Macondo well, where Halliburton was in charge
of designing cement to plug the well.  Bartlit’s report underscores the commission’s finding that
the spill was the result of poor management by BP, Halliburton
and  Transocean Ltd , owner of the rig. The April 20 blowout of
BP’s well, which killed 11 workers, destroyed Transocean’s $365
million Deepwater Horizon rig and spewed crude for 87 days, was
preventable, Bartlit said in his report.  “BP‘s failures are especially troubling because it had
previously identified several relevant areas for concern during
a 2007 audit of Halliburton’s capabilities,” Bartlit said. The
audit “identified several issues that mirror problems at
Macondo.”  Halliburton and BP lacked a management process to ensure
adequate testing of cement used to prevent oil and gas from
seeping into the well, the report found. Both companies were
aware that tests of the cement before the blowout showed the
recipe wasn’t stable.  Cooperation Declined  BP didn’t question Halliburton about the cement mixture
even after it failed to perform properly during testing, Bartlit
said. Once Bartlit’s team identified issues with the cement
recipe, Halliburton declined to cooperate with investigators.
The panel didn’t have power to subpoena witnesses or documents.  “BP has made every effort to understand the causes of the
Deepwater Horizon accident to help prevent similar events from
occurring in the future,”  Scott Dean , a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail. “The findings of the Presidential Commission --
particularly that the accident was the result of multiple
causes, involving multiple parties -- are largely consistent
with those contained in the BP internal investigation report.”  A spokeswoman for Halliburton didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  The panel, appointed by President  Barack Obama , presented
its full report on Jan. 11. It identified failures by government
regulators and warned that a similar accident may occur without
“significant reform.”  New Inspectors  In his 2012 budget released Feb. 14, Obama proposed raising
fees on offshore drillers to help hire more than 100 inspectors
to oversee the industry. The administration also has begun to
revamp the offshore regulator to eliminate potential conflicts
of interest between officials charged with collecting government
royalties for oil and natural gas production and those
responsible for enforcing safety and environmental rules.  Bartlit also helped to investigate the 1989 Occidental
Piper Alpha North Sea platform explosion that killed 167, the
deadliest oil rig explosion.  “The sad fact is that this was an entirely preventable
disaster,” Bartlit said in a statement. “Poor decisions by
management were the real cause.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 