-- 
BP Says Feinberg Too Generous With Future Spill Losses

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-17T18:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/bp-says-feinberg-too-generous-in-estimating-future-spill-losses.html
  BP Plc  said  Kenneth Feinberg , who
runs the $20 billion compensation fund for victims of the
company’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill, is being too generous in
calculating future losses.  BP took exception with a Feb. 2 report by Feinberg, the
Washington lawyer heading the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, that
outlined how he planned to judge final claims.  The “draft methodology’s key assumptions regarding risk of
future loss are not supported by actual data or by the analysis
of the GCCF’s own consultants,” London-based BP said in a
response filed with Feinberg and posted on the fund’s website.  BP created the $20 billion fund and named Feinberg its
manager after negotiations with President Barack Obama’s
administration over damages from the company’s April 20 blowout
in the  Gulf of Mexico , which spewed crude for 87 days.  Feinberg and the Gulf Coast Claims Facility have provided
“benefits well beyond” what federal law requires, BP said.  Under the protocols Feinberg released, most spill victims
would get lump-sum payments equal to double the documented
damage for 2010. Oystermen will be paid four times their actual
losses because oysters may need additional time to recover,
Feinberg said.  BP said it recognizes “the benefits to all parties of a
settlement process that will enable them to avoid the burden,
expense, uncertainty and delay of litigation.”  2010 Losses  The company suggested a lower estimate than Feinberg
proposed, from 25 percent to 50 percent of a claimant’s 2010
losses.  BP says federal law doesn’t call for paying future losses
and Feinberg’s offer of quarterly interim payments should be
sufficient to protect spill victims.  “For all of these reasons, BP respectfully requests” that
Feinberg change the protocols, according to the response.  Dozens of comments have been filed with Feinberg since the
draft was released for discussion two weeks ago. Feinberg has
been faulted for not being generous enough.  “You are shutting businesses down along the  Gulf Coast  by
intentionally dragging your feet on paying claims,” according
to a comment from a Florida resident. The claims facility posts
the responses anonymously. BP confirmed the contents of its
letter.  “BP has done everything they can to spin the news and spin
the damages,” said Jeffrey Breit, a Norfolk, Virginia-based
attorney and member of a plaintiffs’ steering committee
representing spill victims.  ‘Hardly Enough’  The payments Feinberg has offered are “hardly enough”
given the uncertainty about how long it will take the Gulf to
recover, he said in an e-mail.  Asked about the oil company’s comments, Feinberg said today
in an interview that the fund “welcomes input from any and all
interested parties.”  The fund has paid $3.46 billion to people and businesses
hurt by the spill, according to the  facility’s website . Gulf
Coast policy makers have complained that spill victims haven’t
been compensated quickly enough, and have challenged Feinberg’s
contention that he is independent of BP, which is paying for his
work.  A federal judge in  New Orleans  ruled on Feb. 2 that
Feinberg can’t identify himself as an independent administrator.  The New York Times reported on BP’s comments earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 