-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Yields Drop on Minimum Wage Bill Passing Lower House

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-02-17T14:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/brazil-rate-futures-yields-drop-on-minimum-wage-bill-passing-lower-house.html
Yields on most of  Brazil ’s interest-
rate futures contracts due after this year fell as investors bet
on falling borrowing costs after the Lower House of Congress
voted last night to approve a minimum wage bill that the
government said won’t undermine its austerity drive.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013, the most
traded today in Sao Paulo, fell 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 12.67 percent at 9:39 a.m. New York time.
The January 2015 contract fell 10 basis points to 12.56 percent.  The chamber, in a voice vote late yesterday, set the wage
used to calculate monthly pension payments at 545 reais ($326),
a 6.8 percent increase from last year. Lawmakers rejected two
amendments, pushed by the opposition with the support of unions
and a few dissenting members of President Dilma Rousseff’s
alliance, to lift the wage to as high as 600 reais. The bill now
goes to the Senate.  The difference in yields between shorter-term and longer-
term rate futures contracts is shrinking as investors from
outside Brazil are betting the government won’t have to keep
interest rates as high for as long, said Mariano Cirello, who
manages 5 billion reais in Brazilian assets as chief investment
officer at Mapfre Investimentos in  Sao Paulo .  “The long-term curve is flattening a lot,” he said by
phone. Traders are betting “they will come back to the lower
interest rates faster than we thought,” Cirello said.  Annual Inflation  Policy makers last month raised the benchmark interest rate
for the first time since July to 11.25 percent in a bid to cool
annual inflation that in January reached 5.99 percent, near the
upper end of the bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent. The bank will boost the overnight rate by at least an
additional 50 basis points at its March meeting, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate-futures show.  Rousseff, who took office Jan. 1, set a goal last week to
cut spending by 50 billion reais in a bid to help the central
bank contain inflation running at the fastest pace in 26 months.
The government has yet to give specifics about where the cuts
will take place, though it has vowed to eliminate waste at all
ministries and freeze hiring.  The real was little changed at 1.6693 per dollar, from
1.6692 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  