-- 
Brent Crude Trades Near Two-Year High on Mideast Supply Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-17T13:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/brent-oil-near-two-year-high-as-protests-spread-across-middle-east-africa.html
Oil traded near the highest in more
than two years in  London  as civil unrest spread in the Middle
East, renewing concern crude shipments will be disrupted.  Brent futures were little changed after closing yesterday
at the highest level since September 2008 as pro-democracy
demonstrations stretched into a third day in Bahrain, while
protesters clashed with police in Yemen and Libya, the eighth-
biggest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Prices in the U.S. slumped after inventories at the
country’s storage hub swelled in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  “The  risk premium  from the whole Middle East story is more
reflected in Brent,” said  Tobias Merath , head of commodity
research at Credit Suisse AG in Zurich. “The divergence between
Brent and WTI is stunning, and explained by regional factors.
Oversupply at Cushing is a topic again.”    Brent crude  for April settlement was at $103.67 a barrel,
down 11 cents, at 1:39 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London after advancing as much as 52 cents to $104.30 a
barrel. The contract rose yesterday by $2.14 to $103.78, the
highest close since Sept. 25, 2008.  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $84.88 a barrel, down 11 cents. The contract
rose 0.8 percent yesterday to $84.99, the highest close since
Feb. 11. Oil in New York is up 9.9 percent from a year ago.  The difference between the April contracts in London and
New York was at $15.96 a barrel, compared with $15.94 yesterday.
The March West Texas Intermediate contract in  New York  expires
on Feb. 22.  Middle East  Political risks to oil supply are “high and rising” amid
unrest in the Arab world, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report.
Crude rose yesterday after Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said two Iranian gunboats planned to move through the
Suez Canal. The canal authority’s head of traffic said today no
Iranian warships have applied to cross through the waterway.  Pro-democracy protesters in Bahrain stepped up demands for
the government to resign after an overnight security crackdown
left at least three people dead. The  Associated Press  reported
the first protests against Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi, who
has held power since leading a military coup in 1969.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  “Political tensions in the Middle East continued to
intensify, adding to crude supply disruption concerns,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in a note today.    Libya  pumped 1.59 million barrels of crude a day in
January, making it the eighth-biggest oil producer among those
with quotas in OPEC, Bloomberg News estimates show.  Fed Outlook  U.S. Federal Reserve officials “continued to express
disappointment in both the pace and the unevenness of the
improvements in labor markets,” while also judging the recovery
to be on a “firmer footing,” the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said in minutes of its Jan. 25-26 meeting, released yesterday in  Washington . Policy makers raised projections for economic growth
this year and made little change to forecasts after 2011 or for
unemployment and inflation.  The jobless rate will average 8.8 percent to 9 percent in
the fourth quarter, Fed officials projected, down from November
forecasts of 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent.  U.S. crude stockpiles increased by 860,000 barrels to 345.9
million last week, an Energy Department report showed yesterday.
A 2 million-barrel gain was forecast, according to the median of
13 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies rose 205,000 barrels to 241.1 million,
the highest level since March 1990. Analysts projected a 1.85
million-barrel increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  