-- 
U.K.’s Top Stock Picker Bets on Pubs, Housing as Economy Falls

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-17T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/britain-s-top-stock-picker-bets-on-pubs-house-builders-as-economy-shrinks.html
Paul Spencer, the U.K.’s best stock
picker over the last five years, likes to stay local. The 45-
year-old money manager lives in Halifax, northern England, where
he was born and works less than 15 miles away in Leeds.  Having beaten rivals by betting on stocks that get most of
their earnings from overseas in 2010, Spencer says now’s the
time for investors to return home. As the economy shrinks,
inflation climbs and policy makers consider raising interest
rates, he’s buying pub chains such as  JD Wetherspoon Plc  and
house builders such as  Bovis Homes Group Plc . Other managers
at BlackRock Inc. and Old Mutual Plc disagree.  “Many U.K. stocks are already pricing in a very, very
bleak environment so anything slightly better than that could
give some of these domestic-facing stocks quite a lot of scope
to perform well,” Spencer said in an interview at his office in
Leeds, nearly 200 miles north of London. “I’ve probably taken a
contrarian stance here.”  Spencer has run Rensburg Fund Management Ltd.’s U.K. Mid-
Cap Growth fund since 2006 and has returned 86 percent since
then, beating all other U.K. equity funds with assets of more
than 350 million pounds ($562 million), according to  Morningstar
Inc.  The 390 million-pound fund, which invests in FTSE 250
stocks, has also outperformed all its rivals, including Fidelity
International Ltd.’s Special Situations Fund, formerly run by
Anthony Bolton, over three, five and 10 years. The FTSE 250 is
made up of U.K. firms with a market value of 100 million pounds
to 3.4 billion pounds.  Growth Slows  An investment of 10,000 pounds in Spencer’s fund five years
ago was valued at 18,600 pounds as of Feb. 14, compared with
12,700 pounds for the average U.K. equity fund, according to
Morningstar, the Chicago-based fund researcher. The same
investment in a fund tracking the FTSE 250, Spencer’s benchmark,
was worth 12,630 pounds.  The Bank of  England  said yesterday the U.K.’s growth
outlook has worsened and inflation will rise to 4.4 percent this
year, more than twice its target. The forecast assumes its key  bank rate  will rise to 1 percent by the end of this year and 2
percent by the end of 2012 from 0.5 percent today.
Separately, the government also reported that unemployment
claims unexpectedly rose in January.  Spencer said he pays little attention to macroeconomic
forecasts. “Market forecasters only exist to give astrologists
a good name,” he said, paraphrasing economist John Kenneth Galbraith, author of “The Great Crash: 1929.” Instead, he
said he picks stocks he considers are undervalued by the market.  Shifted Holdings  About 50 percent of Spencer’s fund is now made up of U.K.
firms that get most of their revenue at home compared with about
40 percent in the third quarter of 2010. The balance is made up
of stocks that get the majority of their earnings from overseas.
Spencer made the change late last year as the U.K. economy
shrank 0.5 percent in the last three months of 2010 and
inflation accelerated to almost double the Bank of England’s 2
percent target.  “I can find businesses trading on valuations that presume
life will remain pretty tough and in some cases get worse for a
few years,” he said. “You’ve got an opportunity to buy
businesses whose price expects no upside surprises whatsoever.”  Richard Plackett, manager of BlackRock’s U.K. Special
Situations Fund in London, the No. 2 performer over the last
three years and fourth-best over five years, disagreed.  ‘Structural Adjustment’  “The U.K. is facing a very significant structural
adjustment,” he said. “A huge proportion of U.K. GDP is made
up of either government spending or consumer expenditure. In
both of those areas, growth is heavily constrained. You don’t
want to be betting against the economic forces in the world
right now.”  Plackett, 47, whose 1.4 billion-pound fund has returned 40
percent over the last three years and 48 percent over five
years, said software-maker  Aveva Group Plc  and engineers  Victrex
Plc ,  Rotork Plc  and  Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc  will be winners
this year, bolstered by sales in the U.S. and emerging markets.  Richard Watts , manager of Old Mutual Plc’s 900 million-
pound U.K. Select Mid-Cap Fund in London, has returned 56
percent over the last five years, making it the second-best
performing British fund over the period, agreed with Plackett in
preferring overseas-earning firms.  “I personally think they’ve got further to run,” he said
in an interview. “But I would suggest it’s more about stock
selection within that particular part of the market that’s going
to drive your relative return this year.”  U.K. Manufacturers  Watts, 33, favors manufacturing firms such as  Cookson Group
Plc ,  Melrose Plc  and  IMI Plc , which all get a third or less of
their revenue from the U.K., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Top-line growth will be difficult to come by for a lot of
the consumer-facing businesses in the U.K. market,” he said.
“It’s hardly the most exciting outlook for U.K.-focused
businesses.”  The FTSE 250 Index climbed 26.3 percent in five years,
compared with a rise of 3.8 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and a 4 percent increase in the MSCI World Index.  Spencer studied economics at Nottingham University and in
1987 joined a brokerage named Battye, Wimpenny & Dawson, which
later merged with Rensburg. His open-plan office, where he sits
with fellow U.K. fund managers, overlooks the Leeds-Manchester
canal, a relic of the city’s 19th century industrial heyday.  House Builders  Canal Wharf , as the area is known, was gentrified in the
1990s and now hosts thousands of newly built flats as well as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.-owned Asda’s U.K. headquarters and a
shopping center. The father of two boys says U.K. consumer
stocks may be in line for a similar revival.  Pub chains, house builders and some retailers have fallen
so much they present a good opportunity to benefit should
Britain’s economy rebound more quickly than expected, Spencer
said.  He now owns pubs with low debt such as JD Wetherspoon and  Mitchells & Butlers Plc  and firms with high levels of cash
reserves including house builders Bovis and  Persimmon Plc  and  Greggs Plc , Britain’s biggest bakery chain.  “I’m not expecting a Phoenix-type recovery from the
U.K.,” he said. “Quite the opposite. Things will be very, very
tough. But there comes a valuation point at which you say, ‘is
this factored in?”  Weir, Spectris  Spencer posted a 32.6 percent return last year, beating his
benchmark  FTSE 250 Index  by 3.5 percentage points and more than
80 percent of his rivals after investing in engineering firms
such as  Weir Group Plc  and  Spectris Plc , which get most of their
earnings from outside the U.K. Both firms have risen by more
than 50 percent in the last six months. That growth is unlikely
to continue, Spencer said.  “We felt there’s a very, very crowded trade participating
in overseas earners,” he said. “If there’s the slightest slip
up in emerging markets or demand from China, how quickly will
these stocks fall?”  A major risk to U.K.-focused stocks is if the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee raises interest rates from
the record low of 0.5 percent, according to Derek Stuart, who
manages Artemis Management Group Inc.’s U.K. Special Situations
Fund in London, the fourth-best performer over the last decade.  “They may go up as a warning sign to say that inflation is
an issue, but I think it’s a real risk for the economy,” he
said.  Interest Rates  Stuart is countering this by buying large firms such as  Vodafone Group Plc  and  BAE Systems Plc , which will benefit from
economic growth outside the U.K. Both firms’ dividend yields are
more than 5 percent, within the highest 15 percent of FTSE 100
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spencer agreed that a rate rise would hurt his investments.  “I’m hoping the MPC errs toward the growth bias rather
than trying to act to damp down inflation,” he said. “The
elements that are prompting inflation at the moment aren’t going
to be influenced by rate rises: Food and fuel and tax increases.
Putting rates up wouldn’t have any great influence on any of
those items.”  London and Johannesburg-listed  Investec Plc  sold Rensburg
last month to San Mateo, California-based  Franklin Templeton
Investments , which has $670 billion in assets. The firm will
move offices later this year -- to another site in Leeds.  “I like living in Yorkshire,” Spencer said of the county
where he lives and works. “We’re probably quite contrarian as
well as being deeply skeptical. Being outside London probably
suits our style.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 