-- 
Cameron Drops Plan to Sell Off Forests in Biggest Reversal of Premiership

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T13:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/cameron-drops-plan-to-sell-off-forests-in-biggest-reversal-of-premiership.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  bowed
to protests and abandoned plans to sell hundreds of thousands of
acres of state-owned woodland in  England  in the biggest policy
U-turn since his government took power last May.  Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman told lawmakers in
London today the Conservative-led coalition would end a
consultation on whether to sell 258,000 hectares (638,000 acres)
of woodland currently run by the Forestry Commission to private
investors, charitable and community groups. Spelman only
announced the plan 21 days ago.  Cameron was reacting to criticism of the sell-off from
lawmakers within his own party, environmentalists, celebrities
such as actress Judi Dench and the head of the Church of
England, Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams. More than half
a million people signed a petition against the sale.  “If you launch a consultation and you get a very strong,
clear response it’s the right thing to do in government to be a
listening government,” Cameron told reporters in east  London 
today. “The big picture for the government overall is these
twin aims of reducing our deficit and getting our public
finances back in balance, but at the same time aiming to build a
bigger, stronger society.”  “If there is one clear message from this experience, it is
that people cherish their forests and woodlands,” Spelman told
lawmakers to jeers and laughter. “I am sorry; we got this one
wrong but we have listened to people’s concerns.’’  Director of Strategy  Cameron came into power pledging that his ministers would
have a freer rein than under previous governments on developing
and handling their own policies. This week, though, the premier
appointed Andrew Cooper, the founder of polling company Populus
Ltd., as a new director of strategy, to take charge of the
administration’s “grid” of forthcoming announcements and to
help shape the future direction of government.  “There is a always a question for the prime minister about
how much to delegate to colleagues,” Tim Bale, professor of
politics at Sussex University, said in a telephone interview.
“Since  Margaret Thatcher  there has been a model whereby you
control from the center and look like a control freak, or you
can delegate and risk looking weak.”  Cameron intended a relaunch of his plans to encourage
charitable volunteering and the announcement of an overhaul
welfare payment to dominate the political week in Britain.
Instead, he was forced to defend his economic policy amid
accelerating inflation and climbing unemployment.  Ed Miliband ,
who leads the opposition  Labour Party , attacked Cameron on both
the economy and the forest sale at the premier’s weekly
question-and-answer session in the House of Commons yesterday.  Cameron has four years until he has to call a national
election and is betting that his plan to all but eliminate the
deficit by 2015 will see a resurgence in growth before then. The
economy shrank in the final quarter of last year and Cameron
said this week he expected his popularity to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 