-- 
Cameron Says He'll Purge Incentives Not to Work in U.K.'s Welfare System

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-17T14:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/cameron-plans-to-purge-welfare-incentives-not-to-work.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged
to change the U.K.’s welfare system to give people incentives to
take work.  The  Welfare Bill , published today, set out to simplify the
system of state benefits that cover everything from child care
to sickness payments. The goal is to remove traps that see some
people lose more than 90 percent of every extra pound they earn
as means-tested benefits are withdrawn.  “The benefit system has created a benefit culture,”
Cameron said in a speech in  London . “It doesn’t just allow
people to act irresponsibly but often actively encourages them
to do so. Sometimes they deliberately follow the signals that
are sent out. Other times, they hazily follow them, trapped in a
fog of dependency.”  Social protection, which includes state-pension payments,
is the single largest item in the government’s budget at 194
billion pounds ($312 billion). About 5 million of the U.K.’s
population of 62 million claim out-of-work benefits and almost a
fifth of households had no one in work in 2009, government
figures show.  The new universal credit will have a “taper rate” of 65
percent, Cameron said, meaning that people will always know
they’ll keep 35 pence from every extra pound they earn. The
government estimates the changes will leave 1.5 million low
earners better off and save 1 billion pounds a year in fraud,
error and waste.  Housing Benefit  Cameron said the current housing-benefit system, which
costs 20 billion pounds a year, was particularly flawed, citing
cases where people had been able to claim as much as 2,000
pounds a week in rent.  Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith, the former
Conservative Party leader who has championed the idea of
simplifying welfare for years, earlier said he was dropping a
policy announced last year by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  of cutting housing payments by 10 percent for people out
of work for more than a year. Osborne had argued the measure was
fairer. Duncan Smith told the BBC today people out of work for a
year will get intensive help finding jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 