-- 
Canada December Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-17T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/canada-december-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of Canada's wholesale trade report for December from  Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales increased for a fifth consecutive month
in December, rising by 0.8% to $45.9 billion. Overall, six
of the seven subsectors reported gains, representing
almost all of wholesale sales.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were up 1.2% in
December.  Nearly half of December's gain came from the machinery,
equipment and supplies, and the motor vehicle and parts
subsectors.  The machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
accounted for more than one-third of the rise in wholesale
sales in December. Sales for this subsector increased 1.3%
to $9.9 billion. This was the eighth monthly increase in
2010 for this subsector.  Sales for the motor vehicle and parts subsector rose by
1.2%, largely reflecting higher sales by wholesalers of
new motor vehicle parts and accessories.  The personal and household goods subsector advanced by
0.8% in December, after falling by 1.3% in November.  The sales of food, beverages and tobacco products rose
by 0.6%. Sales in this subsector have been strong
throughout most of 2010.  The farm products subsector (-6.0%) was the only
subsector that saw a drop in sales in December,
representing less than 2% of wholesale sales.  Sales up in most provinces  Sales rose in seven provinces in December, while
wholesalers in  Quebec , Manitoba and Prince  Edward Island 
recorded lower sales.  Wholesale sales in Ontario rose by 1.0% to $23.3
billion in December. This growth was mainly a result of
higher sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector and
the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector.  Saskatchewan posted the highest provincial growth rate
in December. Sales in the province rose by 5.5%, largely
as a result of increased sales in the agricultural
supplies industry. This was the fifth sales increase in
Saskatchewan in six months.  In Quebec, wholesale sales edged down 0.2% in December,
following a 2.9% advance in November.  Inventories down  Inventories fell by 0.5% in December to $52.5 billion.
Overall, 14 of the 25 industries registered lower
inventories.  The largest decrease was in the inventories of the
construction, forestry, mining, and industrial machinery,
equipment and supplies (-2.8%). This decrease was offset
by an inventory gain of 7.1% by motor vehicle wholesalers.  The decline in wholesalers' inventories, combined with
increased sales, led to a decrease in the inventory-to-
sales ratio, which fell from 1.16 in November to 1.15 in
December.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Wholesale sales bounce back 2010  After declining in 2009, as a result of the global
economic downturn caused by the financial crisis,
wholesale sales increased by 8.0% from 2009 to over $530
billion in 2010.  The seven component subsectors in wholesale trade
registered increases in 2010. The motor vehicle and parts
subsector was responsible for most of the gains in 2010,
followed by wholesalers of the building materials and
supplies subsector.  Wholesale sales increased in all provinces and
territories in 2010.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  All annual comparisons in this release use the sum of
unadjusted monthly estimates. With the release of data in
April, seasonally adjusted monthly figures for 2010 will
be revised to equal the sum of the unadjusted estimates.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  