-- 
Chile May Resume Tightening, Raise Rate to 3.5% on Inflation Expectations

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-02-17T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/chile-may-resume-tightening-raise-rate-to-3-5-on-inflation-expectations.html
Chile’s central bank will probably
raise its benchmark interest rate today after pausing last month
as accelerating economic growth has pushed inflation
expectations to the upper limit of its target range.  Policy makers led by bank President Jose De Gregorio will
raise the overnight rate by a quarter-point to 3.5 percent,
according to 17 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three
analysts expect the bank to keep the rate at 3.25 percent for
the second straight month.  The central bank forecasts that  South America ’s fifth-
biggest economy probably grew at the fastest pace since 2005
last year and may post its biggest expansion in more than a
decade in 2011. At the same time, rising global food and energy
prices have led economists surveyed monthly by the bank to
forecast that annual inflation will 2011 at the highest level
since mid-2009.  “We’re seeing a major increase in inflation
expectations,” Rodrigo Aravena, chief economist at Banchile
Inversiones, said in an interview from Santiago. “When
inflation expectations rise as quickly as we’ve seen -- also
including two-year inflation expectations -- the interest rate
without a doubt has to increase.”  Economists in a February central bank survey estimated
annual inflation would close 2011 at  4 percent , up from the
forecast of 3.2 percent made in December. The bank will raise
the overnight rate to about 4.5 percent by June as food and
energy continue to pressure prices and inflation expectations,
Aravena said.  Growth, Inflation  The economy probably grew 5.2 percent in 2010 and is on
track to expand 6.5 percent in 2011, the central bank said in
its latest monetary policy report, published Dec. 20.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in January from a month
earlier, the fastest pace in four months, and 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, the National Statistics Institute reported Feb. 8.
The bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus 1
percentage point over a two-year horizon.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of the average price rises over the next 12 months,
rose 4.3 percent yesterday from 3.40 percent on Jan. 3, when the
central bank announced plans to buy $12 billion in U.S. dollars
to weaken the peso.  Two-year breakeven inflation increased to 4.04 percent
yesterday from 3.66 on Jan. 5, when policy makers started buying
dollars in $50-million daily tranches.  Target    Chile ’s strengthening job market will continue to add
pressure to inflation rates this year, Aravena said.  The  unemployment rate  has dropped from 8.6 percent in the
three months through April last year to 7.1 percent through
December.  The central bank’s dollar-buying program also has
contributed to an increase in inflation expectations, Celfin
Capital said in a Feb. 14 note e-mailed to investors. A weaker
dollar increases the price of imports.  De Gregorio’s comments in  Israel  over the weekend that
controlling inflation -- not managing the exchange rate -- is
the central bank’s primary role raises the odds the central bank
will raise  interest rates  today, Italo Lombardi, an economist at
BNP Paribas SA, said in a Feb. 15 report.  “This central bank has inflation targets, not  exchange
rate  targets,” Aravena said. “That has been made quite
clear.”  Peso  Policy makers may pause at 3.25 percent today to support
their dollar-purchasing program, which has not weakened the peso
as expected, Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de Credito
e Inversiones, said in a Feb. 8 note to investors.  Raising rates would discourage foreign investors from
betting in favor of Chile’s peso, he said.  Chile’s peso has appreciated 4.4 percent since the dollar-
buying program started on Jan. 5 after falling 5.9 percent in
the two days after the Jan. 3 announcement. The peso fell 0.3
percent yesterday to 474.05 per dollar from the Feb. 15 close of
472.55.  At their last meeting on Jan. 13, policy makers kept the
rate at 3.25 percent on concern over currency appreciation,  Benito Berber , senior Latin America strategist at Nomura
Securities, said in a Feb. 15 presentation e-mailed to
investors. The last time the bank bought dollars to weaken the
peso in April 2008, it held rates unchanged for two months.  Central bankers know today’s interest rate is expansive
and that the real rate, which is calculated by subtracting
inflation from the nominal rate, is close to zero, Aravena said.  Policy makers said in a statement accompanying last month’s
rate decision they would start raising rates again in coming
months at a pace that depends on economic conditions.  At 3.25 percent, Chile has the second-lowest benchmark rate
among major Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg behind  Colombia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  