-- 
China Opposes Use of Web Freedom as Excuse to Meddle

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T14:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-opposes-use-of-web-freedom-as-excuse-to-meddle-update1-.html
  China  opposes the promotion of
Internet freedom as an excuse for interfering in the internal
affairs of other countries, Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu 
said at a regular press briefing in Beijing today.  Ma was responding to a question about pledges made by U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to help people who live in
oppressive regimes circumvent state controls on the Internet.
China blocked access to the Internet in Xinjiang province in
October 2009 after ethnic rioting in the capital Urumqi left at
least 197 people dead.  “We are against other countries using the Internet as a
pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of other
countries,” Ma said. “China enjoys rapid development of the
Internet, we encourage and support the development of the
Internet and guarantee freedom of speech online.”  Clinton vowed the U.S. will step up support for global
Internet freedom, as citizens use social networking sites run by
Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. to organize demonstrations that
have been spreading across the Mideast and North Africa.  Clinton, in her second major speech against Internet
restrictions, said recent protests show how technology can
accelerate “political, social, and economic change” or “slow
or extinguish that change,” referring to government efforts in  Egypt ,  Iran ,  Syria  and elsewhere to restrict online and mobile
media.  Evading Filters  The U.S. will help “people in oppressive Internet
environments get around filters, stay one step ahead of the
censors, the hackers, and the thugs who beat them up or imprison
them for what they say online,” she said in a speech in  Washington  on Feb. 15.  The U.S. Embassy in Beijing said today that some Internet
sites in China, which it didn’t identify, removed discussions by
users on Clinton’s latest comments.  “It’s ironic that the Chinese are blocking an online
discussion about Internet freedom,” the embassy said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We are disappointed.”  The embassy maintains accounts on online discussion forums
in China including the microblog services of Sina Corp. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd ., similar to that of Twitter Inc. U.S.
Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman has made least one post to
engage Chinese  Internet users  in discussion about Clinton’s
speech, the Wall Street Journal  reported  today.  Ma said today he had no information on the removal of
material from Chinese websites.  Praising Google  During protests against Mubarak, Clinton urged Egypt to
unblock Facebook and Twitter, which were used to organize
protests. She praised  Google Inc . for resisting Chinese
censorship in her January 2010 speech on the Internet, and has
called on technology companies to stand firm against repressive
regimes and protect user privacy.  Clinton announced the creation of a State Department office
for Cyber Issues that will be led by Christopher Painter, an
official on President Barack Obama’s National Security Council
and former federal prosecutor specializing in computer crime.  The State Department this month started Twitter feeds in
Arabic, which reached 570,000 in its first days, and Farsi,
which reached 288,000 people within hours, officials said.
Clinton announced the department will soon launch similar feeds
in Chinese, Russian and Hindi.  Canadian Attack  Separately, Ma said he had no details on a Canadian
Broadcasting Corp. report that  Canada ’s government was hit by a
cyber attack from Chinese-based computers last month that broke
into computer systems at the Finance Department and Treasury
Board. As a result of the attack,  Internet access  in both
ministries was cut off, the report said.  China respects international laws and is “firmly opposed”
to hacking or targeting networks of other countries, Ma said.
China has itself been a “victim” of such attacks, he said.  “Any report that the Chinese government was in any way
involved in the attacks on Canada is a baseless, groundless
sheer fabrication,” Ma said.  --Edmond Lococo, with assistance by  Mark Lee  in Hong KOng.
Editors: Ben Richardson, Josh Fellman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  