-- 
China Faces EU Duties as High as 62.9% on Construction Material

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-02-17T12:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-faces-eu-duties-as-high-as-62-9-on-construction-material.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
as high as 62.9 percent on a construction material from  China  to
help Czech, Latvian and other EU producers vie with cheaper
imports that account for more than half the market in  Europe .  The duties punish Chinese manufacturers of open-mesh
fabrics of glass fibers for selling in the EU below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . Open-mesh fabrics of glass fibers are
used mainly as a reinforcement material in construction.  EU producers including  Saint-Gobain Vertex sro  of the  Czech
Republic  and Valmieras Stikla Skiedra AS of  Latvia  suffered
“material injury” as a result of dumped imports from China,
the European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s trade authority in
Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal . The levies, due to
take effect tomorrow, are for six months and may be prolonged
for five years.  Chinese exporters including Yuyao Mingda Fiberglass Co. and
Grand Composite Group expanded their combined share of the EU
market for open-mesh fabrics of glass fibers to 51 percent in
the 12 months through March 2010 from 38.6 percent in 2006,
according to the commission.  The duties are the preliminary outcome of an inquiry that
the commission opened last May after a dumping complaint by EU
producers, which also include  Germany ’s  Vitrulan Technical
Textiles GmbH  and Hungary’s  Tolnatex Fonalfeldolgozo es
Muszakiszovet-gyarto Bt . The levies range from 48.4 percent to
62.9 percent, depending on the Chinese manufacturer.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties against China into “definitive” levies
lasting for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  