-- 
China State Oil Companies Act Independently, IEA Says

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-02-17T23:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/chinese-national-oil-companies-largely-independent-eia-says.html
(Corrects acronym in headline of story that ran Feb. 17)    China ’s state-owned oil companies
are run without much influence from the government, contrary to
perception in the  energy industry , the  International Energy
Agency  said today in a report.  PetroChina Co.,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp . and  Cnooc
Ltd . have invested in projects worldwide. The deals have
increased global supplies of oil, rather than blocking them for
some energy importers, the Paris-based adviser said.  “These are far from puppet companies operating under
control of the Chinese government, as many have assumed,” said
Julie Jiang, co-author of the report with Jonathan Sinton.
“Their investments in recent years have been driven by a strong
commercial interest, not the whim of the state.”  The IEA last week raised its 2011 forecast for global crude
oil demand for a fifth month, driven by China and other emerging
markets. China overtook Japan to become the world’s largest
economy behind the U.S. last year.  Almost half of global oil demand growth will come from
China in the next five years, according to the IEA. Chinese  oil
companies  operated in 31 countries at the end of last year and
were entitled to a share of production in 20 countries, the
report said.  “Decisions about the marketing of equity oil, where the
Chinese companies have control over the disposition of its share
of production, appear to be dominated by market
considerations,” the report said. “For instance, almost all
the equity production Chinese NOCs have in the Americas was sold
locally instead of being shipped back to China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  