-- 
China Data to Help Clarify Eligibility for CO2 Credits

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-17T12:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-may-provide-data-to-clarify-eligibility-for-carbon-credits-un-says.html
  China  may provide data on the power
tariffs it pays for renewable energy, helping developers know
whether projects are eligible for greenhouse-gas credits, the
chairman of the United Nations emissions regulator said.  Renewable-energy projects can win credits if they
demonstrate they need assistance to be viable, according to
rules of the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism. Requests for
credits under the program, where richer nations invest in
emission-cutting projects in the developing world, will probably
rise 54 percent this year to 1,700 applications, according to a
UN presentation.  The executive board overseeing the program uses a list of
highest tariffs in a given region or province when determining
whether projects should be approved for credits, Martin Hession,
the  newly appointed chairman  of the board, said in a phone
interview from Bonn.  “We have published the highest tariff rates in so far as
we have them,” Hession said. “The Chinese authorities are
working on confirming” any differences. He didn’t say when the
new data may be available.  The dialog between government subsidies and emission
credits is a “really difficult area,” Hession said. “I think
everybody knows that is not a perfect rule.”  The high-tariff list doesn’t work because it includes
prices from years ago designed to encourage renewable projects,
said Susanne Haefeli-Hestvik, technical director at Tricorona, a
Stockholm-based emission-reduction developer owned by  Barclays
Plc  of London.  Erroneous Lists  The lists don’t distinguish between richer and poorer
regions in the same province, she said yesterday in a phone
interview. Hydro projects in poorer regions may be missing out
on support from emission credits because there are higher
tariffs in more developed parts of the same province, she said.
“The high tariff rule should go away this year.”  Tricorona would welcome better data from China because the
current list contains errors, Haefeli-Hestvik said. It also
welcomed Hession’s comment that the board will consider projects
on a case-by-case basis. China has produced more emission
credits than any other nation.  Certified Emission Reduction credits for December were
unchanged today at 11.35 euros ($15.38) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . The credits, which stem from
the Clean Development Mechanism, or CDM, can be used by power
stations and factories in the European Union carbon program, the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market by traded volume.  ‘A Conservative Rule’  EU permits traded at a 3.44-euro-a-ton premium to CERs as
of yesterday’s close, compared with an average 2.87 euros last
year, ICE data show.  Using the highest tariff lists is “a conservative rule,”
Hession said. “And it’s not perhaps a very flexible rule. But
that’s what we could do. It’s pretty clear.”  The board is seeking proposals from projects wanting
assessment using different criteria, Hession said. The regulator
is unlikely to change its rule this year, he said. The board
this week appointed Maosheng Duan of China as vice chairman.  “We’re open to establishing tariff rates on another basis,
on a case-by-case basis,” Hession said. “I think the market
frustration is that we haven’t given any guidance on what
alternative approaches there might be.”  The current rules may reduce the incentive for developing
nations to adopt a cleaner path than developed countries,
Haefeli-Hestvik said. Poor nations may be dissuaded from
introducing new renewable-energy subsidies today if they will
crimp revenue from the CDM in years to come, she said.  Hession will seek to cut the time it takes to win approval
for new systems that attract credits, known as  methodologies , he
said. Some methodologies have been waiting for more than a year
for approval, he said. The board would seek to cut the time it
takes for approval to less than a year, he said, declining to be
more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  