-- 
China Video Site PPLive Reviews Initial Offering Plans After Softbank Deal

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-17T12:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-video-site-pplive-reviewing-ipo-plans-after-softbank-deal-ceo-says.html
Synacast Corp. , the Chinese online
video company that drew a $250 million investment this month
from Japan’s  Softbank Corp ., said it has held talks with banks
on a possible initial public offering as revenue surges.  “We keep very close contact with the bankers,” Vincent
Tao, chief executive officer at Synacast, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The Shanghai-based company, known as PPLive,
is “always trying to choose the best time for an IPO,” though
a listing isn’t planned in the “near term,” he said.  Bigger Chinese rival  Youku.com Inc . more than doubled on
its first day of trading in  New York  in December as investors
bet advertisers in the world’s second-largest economy will boost
spending on online video sites. Tao, a former executive at  Microsoft Corp ., said PPLive aims to post sales growth this year
that matches the almost fourfold increase in 2010.  “Advertisers are shifting their spending from traditional
media like television and newspapers to online,” said Zhao
Xufeng, an online video analyst at research company iResearch in  Shanghai . She said PPLive’s service is similar to that of Hulu
LLC, the U.S. video-on-demand site that offers content from
investors including  Walt Disney Co .’s ABC and  News Corp .’s Fox.  PPLive, founded in 2004, offers videos and live programs
from Chinese television stations including Hunan Satellite, and
owns the exclusive online television rights in  China  for the
English Premier League soccer competition, Tao said. PPLive
doesn’t allow users to upload their own content, he said.  “Our service exceeds Hulu in a way, because we offer live
programs,” Tao said. PPLive’s business is different from that
of Youku, which also offers user-generated content, he said.  Peer-To-Peer  PPLive’s service is based on peer-to-peer video streaming
technology, which incurs lower network costs than the hosted
video streaming technology used by Youku, according to a Feb. 7
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report. Peer-to-peer services may
sometimes be slower, according to the report.  Professionally-produced content such as soap operas, movies
and music videos account for about 70 percent of traffic on
Youku, said Jean Shao, a spokeswoman at the Beijing-based
company. User-generated content and self-produced content are
also “influential” in China’s online video market, she said.  PPLive offers its content on the company’s website, and
also through some proprietary software installed on users’
computers, Tao said. Youku also offers some “optional”
software, though users can view the company’s content by
accessing its website, Shao said.  Softbank Investment  Softbank, the fastest-growing mobile-phone carrier in Japan,
said Feb. 3 it paid $250 million for a 35 percent stake in
PPLive. The investment is the biggest financing deal for an
online video company since  Google Inc . bought Youtube in 2006,
according to Tao.  Other investors in PPLive include Draper Fisher Jurvetson,
a California-based venture capital company, and the local
government of Shanghai, Tao said.  Youku’s IPO in the U.S. raised $233.3 million, according to
Bloomberg data. The stock rose 161 percent on its first day of
trading on Dec. 8.  Softbank’s investment in PPLive followed earlier deals in
which the Japanese company acquired a stake of about 30 percent
in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company. The Tokyo-based phone carrier and Internet investor is
also the biggest shareholder in Oak Pacific Interactive Corp.,
owner of Renren.com, the most-popular social-networking service
in China.  Collaboration between PPLive, Renren.com and Alibaba will
increase following the Softbank investment, Tao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 