-- 
China's Foreign Direct Investment Rises 23.4%, Adding to Overheating Risks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T04:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-s-foreign-direct-investment-rises-23-4-adding-to-overheating-risks.html
Foreign direct investment in  China 
climbed in January, adding to record inflows last year that are
complicating Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to tame inflation in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Investment rose 23.4 percent to $10 billion last month from
a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in Beijing today.
Estimates of four economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ranged
from an increase of 10 percent to 23 percent.  China may need to add to last week’s third interest-rate
increase since mid-October and allow faster appreciation of the
yuan to control the cash that’s flooding the economy from the  trade surplus , foreign investment and surging bank lending.
Inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in January and the nation’s
top economic planning agency said last month price gains will
remain at a “high” level in the first quarter.  “Foreign inflows are complicating the government’s efforts
to reduce excess liquidity and contain inflation,” Scott Chen,
an economist at Bank SinoPac in Taipei, said before the release.
“These long-term capital inflows will also add pressure for the
yuan to appreciate.”  Rising incomes and demand for  luxury goods  will continue to
attract foreign direct investments in China this year, after
inflows rose to a record $105.7 billion in 2010, Chen said.  Luxury Sales    LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s largest
maker of luxury goods, expects sales at its watch and jewelry
unit to rise the fastest in China this year, as company spends
more on marketing and distribution to catch up on its rivals,
Philippe Pascal, LVMH’s director of watches and jewelry, said in
an interview this month.  New stores planned for 2011 include a Zenith shop in Hong
Kong and De Beers stores in Beijing and Hong Kong, LVMH said.  Prada SpA, the Italian fashion house known for its
triangular logo, in January said it will start the process for
selling shares in an initial public offering in  Hong Kong , as
rising incomes in China spur demand for luxury products.  The number of individuals with personal wealth of 10
million yuan rose 6.1 percent last year to 875,000, according to
the annual  Hurun Wealth Report  released in April. China’s
households hide as much as 9.3 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of
income that’s not reported in official figures, according to a
study conducted for Credit Suisse AG and published by the China
Reform Foundation in August.  Services Sector  Growth in foreign investment in service industries in
January outpaced the overall increase, climbing 31.8 percent
from a year earlier to $4.69 billion, according to today’s
statement. Inflows into manufacturing gained 18.9 percent to
$4.7 billion, the ministry said.  “The scale of foreign investment into the services sector
will further expand as the structure of  China’s economy 
transforms, especially in large cities,” Yao Jian, spokesman
for the ministry, said at a briefing in Beijing today.  The number of new foreign-invested companies approved rose
20 percent from a year earlier to 2,243, and investment into
western China surged 81 percent to $510 million, the data show.
The proportion of foreign-invested companies targeting the
domestic market now accounts for more than 60 percent of the
total, Yao said.  Non-financial outbound investment in January rose 15.9
percent to $2.74 billion, the commerce ministry said. China’s
investment in  Africa  last year was $10 billion.  Merger Reviews  Government scrutiny of acquisitions by foreign companies
may slow inflows this year as China sets up a ministerial panel
to approve overseas takeovers of local companies under new
procedures covering national security issues.  The committee will study deals involved in defense,
agriculture, energy, resources, infrastructure, transport,
equipment-manufacturing and technology, the State Council said
in a statement on Feb. 13.  “We recognize that reviewing mergers and acquisitions is a
prerogative of the Chinese government,” said Jacques de
Boisseson, president of the Beijing-based European Union Chamber
of Commerce in China. “However, we hope that implementation of
the new approval process does not adversely affect the
predictability of foreign investments in China.”  Commerce ministry spokesman Yao said today that such a
review committee is “absolutely necessary” as the number of
mergers and acquisitions in China involving foreign companies is
expected to grow.  China hopes that the U.S. will increase the transparency of
its own national security reviews of foreign acquisitions and
grant “fair treatment” to Chinese companies, Yao said.  --Chinmei Sung, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  