-- 
China ‘Hot-Money’ Inflows $35.5 Billion, SAFE Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T10:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/china-hot-money-inflows-35-5-billion-safe-says-update1-.html
  China ’s  State Administration of
Foreign Exchange  estimated $35.5 billion of so-called “hot
money” flowed into  Asia ’s largest economy last year, 42 percent
more than the average in the past decade.  The figure accounted for 7.6 percent of the accumulation in
foreign-exchange reserves, the currency regulator  said  in a
report published on its website today. The average annual net
inflow of hot money, or short-term speculative capital, was
about $25 billion in the last 10 years, SAFE said.  “This suggests that the hot money issue is not a major
problem for managing the currency, nor a key source of asset
price bubble threat,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “This may reduce
worries that rate hikes will attract more such flows, allowing
the central bank to continue the relatively fast pace of
hikes.”  The People’s Bank of China has raised major lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios seven times since the start of last
year to help drain funds from the financial system. The central
bank boosted borrowing costs last week for the third time in
four months to help damp inflation. The monetary authority has
permitted the yuan to strengthen 3.6 percent since a two-year
dollar peg was scrapped on June 19.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
increased by a record $199 billion in the fourth quarter to
$2.85 trillion, the central bank said on Jan. 11.  SAFE pledged to monitor cross-border capital flows and
expand outflow channels, in a statement accompanying the report.  -  Judy Chen , Eva Woo. Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 