-- 
Clearwire Sees Positive Earnings, Cash During 2012

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T23:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/clearwire-sees-positive-earnings-cash-during-2012.html
  Clearwire Corp ., the fourth-
generation wireless service provider, said profit, excluding
some items, may be positive next year and eliminate the need for
additional funding.  The company’s cost-cutting efforts and growth, including
“prudently” pacing its retail expansion, will allow its
existing business to report positive earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, during 2012, Clearwire
said in its fourth-quarter earnings report today.  The company could potentially become cash-flow positive
afterwards without needing to raise additional funds. Last year,
Clearwire warned investors it was short on cash and could run
out by mid-year, before raising $1.325 billion in bonds and
exchangeable notes in December. It also cut sales and marketing
spending and jobs to save as much as $200 million in the first
half of this year.  The unprofitable company said it is working to raise money
and cut costs to continue expanding its network across the U.S.
Clearwire said it has received offers for its excess spectrum
from multiple parties and is holding discussions with the
interested parties.  “Our strong preference is to secure additional strategic
equity investments, and we continue to hold discussions with
interested parties,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Morrow said
in a conference call. “Having multiple strategic investors with
both capital and customers is a win-win. An alternative to the
equity investment path is a possible sale of spectrum assets.”  Wider Loss  Clearwire, which was the first company to build a
nationwide 4G network in the U.S., is now facing competition
from  Verizon Wireless  and, later this year,  AT&T Inc .  Clearwire shares rose 19 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $5.40 in
trading after U.S. markets closed. Clearwire had declined 17
cents, or 3.2 percent, to $5.21 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have risen 1.2 percent this
year.  The company reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $128
million, compared with a loss of $98.7 million a year earlier.
Excluding the effect of an equity investment, the company lost
53 cents a share. Analysts on average estimated a 57 cent loss,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Sales rose to $180.7 million. Analysts had on average
estimated $190.2 million.  (The company held a conference call to discuss the results
at 4:30 p.m. New York time. To access a replay of the call, go
to  http://investors.clearwire.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  