-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose for Seventh Month

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-climbed-for-seventh-month-on-energy-food.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably climbed in January for a seventh month, led by higher
prices for fuel and food that have yet to filter through to
other goods and services, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index rose 0.3 percent following a 0.4
percent gain in December, according to the median estimate of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core rate,
which excludes volatile food and energy costs, may have
increased 0.1 percent for a third month.  Growing economies in  Asia  and Latin America are boosting
global demand for oil and other commodities, raising costs for
American factories. Nonetheless, joblessness at 9 percent means
companies have little room to pass these expenses to customers,
one reason why the  Federal Reserve  is seeking to boost growth
through a second round of unconventional easing.  “With the substantial slack in the  U.S. economy ,
businesses have only a limited ability to pass through higher
input costs to consumers,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “While
the Fed has acknowledged the recent sharp price increases in
gasoline, crude oil and food, they remain focused on the weak
gains in core prices.”  The Labor Department’s price data is due at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains
of 0.2 percent to 0.5 percent.  More Claims  Another Labor Department report at the same time may show
first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  rose last week from
the lowest level since July 2008. Initial applications rose to
400,000 from 383,000 the prior week, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed.  Fed policy makers took a more optimistic view of the
economy last month while maintaining their dissatisfaction with
job growth as they pressed forward with an expansion of record
monetary stimulus, minutes of last month’s policy meeting
released yesterday showed.  Even with soaring commodity costs, the Fed remains
concerned that consumer inflation is below its long-range annual
target of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “Despite further increases in commodity prices, measures
of underlying inflation remained subdued and longer-run
inflation expectations were stable,” the minutes showed.  Fed’s Concern  Even with soaring commodity costs, the Fed remains
concerned that consumer inflation is below its annual target of
1.6 percent to 2 percent.  An  unemployment rate  that’s held at or above 9 percent
since May 2009 is also restraining labor costs. The threat of
deflation, or a prolonged decline in prices that’s harmful to
the economy, prompted Fed policy makers on Nov. 3 to announce
the central bank’s purchase of $600 billion in additional  Treasury securities  by the end of June.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, a benchmark for
consumer home mortgages, has climbed on evidence the economy is
improving. It reached 3.74 percent on Feb. 28, compared with
2.57 percent on Nov. 3, the day of the Fed announcement. The
yield was at 3.62 percent late yesterday.    Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc ., which owns and operates quick-
serve Mexican restaurants across the U.S., is seeing its costs
for imported tomatoes, green peppers and tomatillos rise, along
with beef and cheese. Still, the company has been reluctant to
raise prices.  No Price Increase  “Commodity inflation has continued to push our food costs
higher in 2011 already, and we expect continued inflationary
pressure on many of our ingredients,” said John R. Hartung,
chief financial officer at Denver-based Chipotle in a Feb. 10
earnings teleconference. “We plan to hold off on any menu-
pricing decisions until later in the year, which will allow us
to see how inflation plays out on a sustained basis and allow us
to see how consumers react to price increases from other
restaurants and grocers.”    Illinois Tool Works Inc ., a Glenview, Illinois-based
diversified manufacturer of engineered products and specialty
systems, is one company that has been able to pass on higher
costs to customers.  “Costs have continued to rise, even in the first quarter,
for things like steel,” Ronald D. Kropp, chief financial
officer, said in a conference call on Jan. 31. “We have put
price increases in place. Our goal is to recover not just the
cost, but also the margin.”  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis at   bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  