-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Holds Near Two-Month Low

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-17T16:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-holds-near-two-month-low.html
  Consumer confidence  last week held
near a two-month low, and more Americans turned pessimistic on
the outlook for the economy as gasoline prices rose.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
US Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 43.4 in the period
to Feb. 13 compared with minus 46 the prior week. Twenty-nine
percent of those surveyed said the economy will worsen, the most
since November and up from 23 percent in early January, today’s
release said.  The highest gasoline prices in two years have pinched
household budgets and threaten to stem the rebound in  consumer
spending , the biggest part of the economy, that began last year.
At the same time, a decrease in firings may help Americans
overcome concern their jobs are in jeopardy, easing some of the
negative effects from rising energy bills.  “Consumer confidence is coming back grudgingly,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “Gasoline prices keep
climbing, and this may be hurting consumers in their wallets and
keeping a lid on confidence.”  The minus 46 reading two weeks ago was the lowest since
late November. That week’s five-point drop was the biggest
setback since January 2010.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump increased to $3.13 on Feb. 15, the highest since October
2008, according to figures from AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring group.  Fuel Costs  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have moved in the
same direction 98 percent of the time since 2004, according to
calculations by Brusuelas. Changes in the four-week average of
claims for jobless benefits have been in sync with the comfort
gauge about 72 percent of the time.  More Americans filed applications for unemployment
insurance payments last week, figures from the Labor Department
showed today. The number of claims increased to 410,000 from
385,000 the prior week.  Another report from the Labor Department showed consumer
prices rose 0.4 percent in January, propelled by costs of food
and fuel. Excluding food and fuel, the so-called core gauge rose
0.2 percent from the prior month.  The consumer comfort survey also showed registered
Republican voters have gained confidence over the past two
months at the expense of Democrats.  Gap Widens  The index for Republicans stood at minus 32.9 last week, up
from minus 38 the week before. For Democrats, it was minus 48.9,
up from minus 51. The 16-point difference last week was the
biggest since mid-December. The spread has averaged about 31
points in favor of Republicans since this index’s inception in
1990.  The biggest political gap on record, 90 points, was in July
2004, when Republicans were optimistic and Democrats were
pessimistic. Since then, Republicans have turned more
pessimistic, narrowing the difference.  The mood among Republicans turned more dour than that of
Democrats in December 2009 for the first time in 13 years. The
last time Democrats were optimistic overall was in July 2001.
Since December 2008, the month after  Barack Obama  was elected
president, the gap has not exceeded 31 points.  Income plays a central role in shaping respondents’ views,
the report showed. The index for Americans earning less than
$15,000 a year was at minus 76.6 last week, compared with minus
79 the week before. For those making more than $100,000, the
index fell to minus 4.6 from minus 4.  Random Sample  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of about 1,000
consumers ages 18 and over.  Each week, about 250 respondents are asked for their views
on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The share of households with a positive view of the economy
was 14 percent last week, little changed from the prior week.  Those with an upbeat rating on their personal finances
climbed to 45 percent from 43 percent, and the share saying it
was a good time to buy needed items held at 25 percent.  A separate measure of expectations showed 33 percent of
those surveyed said the economy will get better. Compared with
the 29 percent who said it was getting worse, the gap narrowed
to 4 percentage points from a 10-point spread in favor of
optimists in January. This gauge represents responses from 500
Americans interviewed in the first two weeks of each month.  Retail Sales  The Conference Board said today that its index of leading
indicators rose in January for a seventh month, signaling the
expansion will extend into 2011. Separately, the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia  said manufacturing in the region expanded
in February at the fastest pace in seven years, underscoring
factories’ contribution to the recovery.  Retail sales rose less than forecast in January, signaling
it will be difficult for consumers to sustain last quarter’s
pickup in spending without bigger gains in employment, figures
from the Commerce Department showed this week.  Purchases increased 0.3 percent, the smallest gain since a
drop in June. The data also indicated winter snowstorms may have
played a role in the slowdown as Americans stayed away from
home-improvement stores and restaurants.  Restaurant Chain    BJ’s Restaurants Inc ., which operates its namesake brewery,
pizza and grill chains, is among companies concerned about
rising fuel prices, unemployment, and home foreclosures. While  Huntington Beach , California-based BJ’s sales trends have
continued to be “solid” since the start of 2011, customers are
under pressure, Chief Executive Officer Jerry Deitchle said on a
conference call on Feb. 10.  “We are still operating in a very difficult, volatile
environment for consumer discretionary spending,” Deitchle
said. “Consumers are facing significantly higher food and
gasoline prices.”  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age,
income level, race, region of residence, political affiliation,
marital and employment status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  