-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Prices Rise More Than Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T22:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast-on-higher-food-fuel-costs.html
Rising global demand for food and
fuel pushed up the U.S. cost of living more than forecast in
January, a sign the risk of a damaging drop in prices is ebbing.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent for a second
month, led by the biggest increase in food costs in more than
two years, according to figures today from the Labor Department
in Washington. Other reports showed manufacturing is bolstering
the expansion, and  consumer confidence  is being buffeted by
rising household expenses.  Americans are paying more for air travel and clothing as
growing economies in  Asia  and Latin America boost demand for
commodities like oil and cotton. Another report today showing
more people than projected filed claims for jobless benefits
last week indicates workers don’t have the power to seek bigger
pay increases, evidence inflation is unlikely to flare.  “You’re seeing some pass-through of commodity costs in a
few areas like airline fares, tires and clothing, but it’s still
pretty muted,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “For an upward
spiral in CPI, we need to see wage inflation start to
accelerate, and that’s not in the cards.”    Treasury securities  climbed as the increase in applications
for  unemployment benefits  showed the labor market will take time
to recover. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves
inversely to prices, dropped to 3.57 percent at 5 p.m. in  New
York  from 3.62 percent late yesterday.  Exceeds Forecast  Consumer prices were projected to rise 0.3 percent last
month based on the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from increases of 0.2 percent
to 0.5 percent.  Over the past 12 months, costs climbed 1.6 percent.  Energy costs increased 2.1 percent in January from a month
earlier and rose 7.3 percent for the prior 12 months, today’s
report showed. Food prices rose 0.5 percent last month, the
biggest gain since September 2008, and were up 1.8 percent for
the 12-month period.  The so-called core rate, which excludes volatile food and
fuel prices, rose 0.2 percent, the biggest gain since October
2009. These expenses increased 1 percent from January 2010,
compared with a record-low 0.6 percent year-over-year gain as
recently as October.    Core inflation  was boosted by a 1 percent increase in the
cost of clothing, the most since February 2009, and a 2.2
percent rise in airline fares.  Higher Fares    AMR Corp .’s American Airlines boosted round trip fares $20
on most of its domestic routes in December, a move later matched
by  Delta Air Lines Inc ., according to Farecompare.com. The fare
comparison web site also said United Continental Holdings Inc.
added a $20 round-trip peak travel day surcharge to fares on
future travel dates.  “You’re going to see more companies that attempt to pass
through” higher costs, said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist
at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York, who correctly forecast
the gain in core prices. “How successful they are depends on
the economic backdrop. We’re looking at a slightly firmer
inflation backdrop.”  Another Labor Department report showed applications for
jobless benefits increased by 25,000 to 410,000 in the week
ended Feb. 12, exceeding the 400,000 median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed View  Federal Reserve  policy makers took a more optimistic view
of the  U.S. economy  last month while maintaining their
dissatisfaction with job growth as they pressed forward with an
expansion of record monetary stimulus, minutes of last month’s
policy meeting released yesterday showed.  Even with soaring commodity costs, the Fed remains
concerned that consumer inflation is below its long-range annual
target of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “Despite further increases in commodity prices, measures
of underlying inflation remained subdued and longer-run
inflation expectations were stable,” the minutes said.  The CPI report showed average hourly wages adjusted for
inflation dropped in each of the past three months, and were up
0.2 percent since January 2010, the smallest year-over-year gain
since a drop in the 12 months ended May.  “To the extent that we’re getting commodity prices passed
through while wage inflation is really low, it squeezes real
income for consumers,” said IHS  Global Insight ’s Gault.  Consumer confidence last week held near a two-month low,
and more Americans turned pessimistic on the outlook for the
economy as gasoline prices rose, another report showed today.  Flagging Confidence  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
US Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 43.4 in the period
to Feb. 13 compared with minus 46 the prior week. Twenty-nine
percent of those surveyed said the economy will worsen, the most
since November and up from 23 percent in early January.  Also today, manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
expanded in February at the fastest pace in seven years,
underscoring factories’ contribution to the economic expansion.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose
to 35.9, the highest level since January 2004 and exceeding the
median forecast of 21 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis at   bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  