-- 
Cotton Tops $2 for First Time in New York as Bulls Go ‘Berserk’

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-02-17T21:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/cotton-rises-above-2-for-first-time-as-supply-tightens-on-chinese-demand.html
Cotton topped $2 a pound in  New York 
for the first time ever as accelerating global growth boosted
demand for garments manufactured in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer and importer, amid shrinking global supplies.  China’s apparel exports in January surged 34 percent from a
year earlier to $13.38 billion, the Customs Bureau said this
week. Stockpiles monitored by ICE Futures U.S. have plunged 84
percent since June 1. Flooding in Australia and Pakistan and
drought in Russia and other parts of  Europe  have reduced output.  Textile mills are buying more fiber as the global economy
recovered from the worst recession since World War II. Costs may
rise for U.S. retailers including Gap Inc., J.C. Penney Co.
because cotton has more than doubled in the past 12 months. Olah
Inc., a U.S. apparel manufacturer that supplies Gap, said it
raised prices for “several products.”  “The bulls have gone berserk, and it looks like they want
prices to go higher,” said Sid Love, the president of Joe Kropf
&  Sid Love  Consulting Services LLC in  Overland Park , Kansas.
“China’s demand still remains strong.”  Cotton for May delivery rose by the exchange limit of 7
cents, or 3.6 percent, to settle at a record $2.0193 on ICE
Futures U.S. at 2:41 p.m. in New York. Prices have gained 39
percent in 2011, the most of any of the 19 commodities in the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  “There was short-covering by textile mills,” said  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.  Trading in cotton options was halted by the exchange, which
determined that the synthetic price change for contracts was at
least two times the daily limit, ICE said today in a  statement .  Draining Stockpiles  For the year that began Aug. 1, China will consume 47
million bales, exceeding domestic output estimated at 30 million
bales, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said on Feb. 9. The
deficit may help drain global stockpiles to 42.8 million bales,
the smallest since 1996, according to the USDA.  “The recent momentum has been undeniably bullish,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , said by telephone from Sydney. “Considering that we
have hit this $2 mark, which is where many people are suggesting
the near-term target in the market was, where do we go from
here? It’s really an uncertain environment.”  September-delivery cotton traded on the Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange climbed 3.5 percent to an all-time high of 34,870 yuan
($5,297) a metric ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  