-- 
Oil Surges in N.Y. on Mideast Unrest, Shrinks Discount to Brent

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-17T20:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/crude-oil-prices-fluctuate-on-reports-about-iranian-warships-u-s-economy.html
Oil surged the most this month amid
mounting Middle East tensions, narrowing a record spread between
U.S.-traded West Texas Intermediate and Brent in  London .  Crude oil in New York rose 1.6 percent after protesters
clashed with police in Bahrain, Yemen and Libya, and Iranian
state-run television said the country was sending two warships
through the Suez Canal. Brent slipped from a two-year high as
traders moved money into the U.S. contract.  “The spread between Brent and WTI is coming in,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “There’s some catch-up for
WTI when it comes to the geopolitical situation taking place.”  Crude for March delivery rose $1.37 to settle at $86.36 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day
increase since Jan. 31. Futures have gained 12 percent in the
past year. April crude on the Nymex gained $1, or 1.1 percent,
to $88.84. The March contract in  New York  expires on Feb. 22.    Brent crude  for April settlement fell $1.19, or 1.1
percent, to $102.59 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. The contract increased to $103.78 yesterday, the
highest settlement since Sept. 25, 2008.  The difference between the April contracts in London and
New York was at $13.75 a barrel, compared with $15.94 yesterday.
The spread had widened amid a glut of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for the New York-traded contract.  Brent prices tumbled 1.3 percent and New York futures
jumped 1 percent in the two hours before floor trading closed on
the Nymex.  Trade Flows  “We’ve seen an extraordinarily wide spread between Brent
and WTI in 2011, and today we’re seeing a correction,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “This is all about trade flows. After the action takes
place, we go searching for a reason, when what we’re looking at
is money sloshing around.”  Brent was $1.06 a barrel cheaper than Nymex crude a year
ago, and the differential averaged 76 cents last year. The
European crude has typically traded at a discount to WTI.  Oil supplies at Cushing jumped to a record 38.3 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 28, pressuring the price of WTI
on the Nymex. Cushing inventories gained 250,000 barrels to 37.7
million in the seven days to Feb. 11, according to an Energy
Department report yesterday. That’s 23 percent higher than year-
earlier levels.  “Nymex is such a false market right now,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “We’ve taken out the lows from the early part of
the year and are back into an area of congestion between $80 and
$85. The market’s going to look at that as a buying opportunity,
especially with Brent comfortably over $100.”  Bahrain Unrest  The army deployed in Bahrain’s capital, Manama, following
the deaths of five people in overnight conflicts, and pro-
democracy demonstrations stretched into a third day. Protesters
also clashed with police in Yemen and Libya, the eighth-biggest
oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  The  Press TV  report on the Iranian warships raised concern
about a possible confrontation between Israel and  Iran  which
could curb Middle Eastern oil supplies after Israeli Foreign
Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said yesterday that plans to send the
ships through the canal to  Syria  were a “provocation.”  “Until now, we don’t have any information or a license
from any ministry in Egypt,” Ahmed El Manakhly, the canal
authority’s head of traffic, said in a phone interview after the
Iranian TV report.  Egypt ’s Defense Ministry must approve any
vessel’s use of the canal, he said earlier.    Suez Canal   About 2.5 percent of global oil output moves through Egypt
via the Suez Canal and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Iran is OPEC’s second-
largest oil producer after  Saudi Arabia , pumping 3.72 million
barrels a day last month, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  “We can’t dismiss the fact that there’s a lot going on in
the Middle East, whether it’s Iran, Bahrain or  Libya ,” said
Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.
“Nobody can really say whether it’s going to be good or bad for
us. With a long weekend ahead, it’s better to be safe than
sorry.”  U.S. financial markets will be closed Feb. 21 for the
Presidents Day holiday.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 905,165
contracts as of 3:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 942,065
contracts yesterday, 28 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.54 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 