-- 
Daimler's Bernhard Trades Tomahawk for Mercedes Assembly Lines

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-02-18T09:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/daimler-s-bernhard-trades-tomahawk-for-assembly-lines-in-bid-for-top-job.html
Wolfgang Bernhard, production chief
at Mercedes-Benz, has made four trips to central  Hungary  since
rejoining the  Daimler AG  management board a year ago. His career
depends on a factory being built on the region’s sandy soil.  The 800 million-euro ($1.1 billion) plant near the city of
Kecskemet has received special attention from Bernhard, regarded
by analysts as the most likely successor to Chief Executive
Officer Dieter Zetsche, because it’s the location where Daimler
plans to build two compact cars.  The 50-year-old executive, who made headlines when he
roared into the 2003 Detroit auto show on a Dodge Tomahawk
motorcycle, has kept a low profile since returning to Daimler in
2009, five years after being pushed out by former-CEO Juergen Schrempp. Bernhard’s main challenge is making factories run more
smoothly as Mercedes lags behind  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi in filling assembly lines.  “Bernhard is the central candidate for the top job,” said  Stefan Bratzel , head of the Center of Automotive Management in
Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany. “But he’s got a lot to do.
Daimler’s results in recent years have resembled a rollercoaster
ride. Continuity is a key challenge.”  After initially leading the unit that makes Sprinter
delivery vans, he was promoted to the Stuttgart, Germany-based
manufacturer’s management board a year ago today, and charged
with boosting profit margins at the world’s second-largest maker
of  luxury vehicles .  Earnings Disappoint  The lack of consistency was evident in the fourth quarter.
Mercedes earnings before interest and taxes slipped to 8.3
percent of sales from 9.5 percent in the third quarter. The
surprising drop in profitability contributed to a 4.4 percent
decline in Daimler shares when it released earnings Feb. 16. The
stock has gained 60 percent since Bernhard joined the board.  “It’s clear that Mercedes was below expectations,” said
Stefan Bauknecht, a  fund manager  with DWS Investments in  Frankfurt . “A 9 percent margin should have been possible.”  The stock was down 1.1 percent at 52.40 euros at 10:07 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading today, extending declines since posting
earnings to 6.5 percent.  Daimler’s car unit, which includes Mercedes, the Smart city
car and the ultra-luxury Maybach brand, targets consistent
profit margins of 10 percent by 2013. The company is aiming for
the boost even as it doubles the lineup of small cars, which are
typically less profitable than big sedans like the E- and S-
Class.  Keeping Pace  Small cars are critical for Mercedes to meet tighter
emissions standards and keep pace with BMW and Audi in sales.
Mercedes also needs new models to attract younger drivers to the
brand, with its average customer older than competitors. A
revamped B-Class, the first of the line, will be introduced
later this year. A compact hatchback, coupe and sport-utility
vehicle are also planned.  The Daimler unit, which accounted for 65 percent of the
group’s 7.3 billion euros in 2010 operating profit, will
probably use 88 percent of capacity at European factories this
year, compared with 92 percent at BMW and 93 percent at Audi,
according to data from IHS Automotive.  Convincing Staff  Mercedes in 2011 aims to beat record output of 1.21 million
vehicles this year. Last year’s production at an all-time high
came even though the carmaker started the year with factories
running on reduced schedules.  Bernhard spent much of 2010 convincing staff and suppliers
that the turnaround in demand was for real and that overtime
instead of short workweeks was necessary, said a person with
direct knowledge of his schedule.  The former chief operating officer at Chrysler, where he
worked alongside Zetsche when the unit was still part of
Daimler, declined to be interviewed for this story. Daimler
doesn’t comment on the activities or schedules of individual
executives, spokesman Marc Binder said.  Bernhard, who started his career as a consultant with
McKinsey & Co., developed production line expertise as a manager
for S-Class assembly between 1994 and 1999. In his current
position, he typically conducts meetings on the factory floor
rather than conference rooms to see problems first-hand.  Minute Details  He also gets involved in minute details, such as changing
the process for installing wire harnesses to make it easier for
workers and reduce the time needed for the task by about 20
percent, a person who’s worked with him said.  Despite improving Mercedes’ fourth-quarter margins by 3
percentage points compared with last year, Bernhard has bigger
challenges waiting, including making profitable cars at
Kecskemet and its sister plant in Rastatt,  Germany , and
addressing sensitive issues like taking small-engine production
away from the high-cost Stuttgart plant.  “If Bernhard’s going to progress, then he needs to
successfully implement long-term strategy,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS Automotive. “The
current A- and B-Class made only a marginal contribution to
profitability.”  After challenging Schrempp and subsequently losing his
position as head of Mercedes in 2004, Bernhard led Volkswagen’s
namesake brand for less than a year before again losing a power
struggle, this time with Chairman Ferdinand Piech. He also
antagonized VW unions by threatening to relocate Golf assembly
outside Germany.  Collegial Tone  Since returning to Daimler, he’s stayed out of the public
eye and taken on a more collegial tone, meeting foremen on the
factory floor and extolling the virtues of teamwork in town hall
meetings with workers, according to two people who worked with
him. Zetsche, 57, has a contract running until the end of 2013.  “Bernhard had acquired a reputation as a ruthless cost-
cutter, but now he has to make a name for himself in the more
subtle art of people management,” said IHS’s Stuermer. “It’s
very important at Mercedes to become a good guy to work for,
someone who’s not going to bruise people with big egos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 