-- 
Decade-Old IPO Plans of Germany's Talanx Lure Investors as Insurers Rally

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-02-18T08:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/decade-old-ipo-plans-of-germany-s-talanx-lure-investors-as-insurers-rally.html
Preparations for an initial public
offering of Talanx AG, Germany’s third-biggest insurer, are
attracting investors’ interest after stocks in the industry
rallied this year.  “Talanx would be a real gain for the German stock market
as there are not that many listed insurers,” said Dieter Ewald,
who helps manage about 15 billion euros ($20 billion) at  Frankfurt  Trust. “They are more of a German-market play than  Allianz SE , and an IPO would be big enough to lure international
investors.”  The insurer, which is based in Hanover, Germany, has been
pondering an IPO for more than a decade. Talanx, led by Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Haas, 56, has said it would like to
sell shares to the public to help fund its international
expansion and that an IPO would be possible in the third quarter
of 2011 at the earliest. Spokesman Thomas von Mallinckrodt
declined to provide more details on the plan.  Talanx has a book value, or assets minus liabilities, of
about 7.2 billion euros, based on figures in the 2009  annual
report . That may translate into a market value of about 7.6
billion euros, as members of the Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance
Index are trading at 1.05 times book value, compared with a
ratio of 0.9 at the end of last year. Haas has said he won’t
sell Talanx shares below book value.  ‘Rather Large Offering’  To help him prepare for an IPO, the CEO last year hired
Wolfram Schmitt, the former head of  investor relations  at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “Should Talanx really decide to sell shares to the public
this time, I would certainly take a close look as this is going
to be a rather large offering in the insurance space,” said Tim Friebertshaeuser, who helps manage about 274 billion euros at
DWS Investment in Frankfurt.  A market value of more than 7 billion euros may make Talanx
a candidate for  Germany ’s MDAX index of 50 medium-sized
companies, depending on the freefloat, the portion of publicly
traded shares. Haas has said he would expect owner HDI
Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen Industrie VaG to sell 10
percent to 15 percent of Talanx in a first step.  “An IPO of a major company such as Talanx would be a
blessing for the German stock market as they would be in a range
to aim for the benchmark MDAX or even the DAX Index,” said Nico Baader, management board member of Munich-based stock-exchange
broker Baader Bank AG.  German Insurers  The 110 biggest publicly listed companies in Germany
currently include three insurance companies -- Allianz, Europe’s
biggest insurer,  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, and
Hannover Re, which is 50.2 percent owned by Talanx.  The Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index has climbed 17
percent this year as concern eased about the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis and the impact of new regulation. The measure posted
its best January performance since 1998.  Talanx is fully owned by German mutual insurer HDI, which
is also based in Hanover and in turn owned by its insurance
customers. It has said it will keep a majority stake should
Talanx sell shares to the public. HDI’s member meeting has
already approved the sale of a stake in Talanx in a vote that
doesn’t expire, von Mallinckrodt said.  “An IPO of Talanx will give the whole group, including
Hannover Re, more transparency and a broader set of refinancing
tools,” said Ben Cohen, a London-based analyst with  Collins
Stewart . “An IPO would give them much better access to the
capital markets going forward.”  Talanx Expansion  A share sale would depend on Talanx’s “ability to find an
interesting takeover target abroad,” Haas said in an interview
last year. The firm has said it would be most interested in  South America , central and eastern Europe as well as growing its
business in industrial insurance.  Industrial insurance made up about 14 percent of the
company’s 22.3 billion euros in 2010 gross premiums. Talanx grew
its presence in the sector with the 1.4 billion-euro acquisition
of German rival Gerling Versicherungsgruppe in 2005. It also
cooperates internationally with RSA Insurance Group Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest publicly traded non-life insurer.  Talanx’s past acquisitions also included Deutsche
Postbank AG’s insurance units, which it bought for 550 million
euros in 2008, the 2005 purchase of Brazilian property and
casualty insurer HSBC Seguros and the 2006 takeover of  Turkey ’s
Ihlas Sigorta AS.    Hannover Re   HDI already went to the stock market in 1995 when it sold
shares in Hannover Re, now the world’s third-biggest reinsurer.
The stock is trading at record levels following a 43 percent
surge over the last 12 months. Hannover Re, an MDAX member, has
a market value of about 5.2 billion euros.  “Considering the insurance sector’s current sentiment, the
timing would be excellent” for an IPO of Talanx, said Moritz Rehmann, who helps manage about 10 billion euros at DJE Kapital
AG in Munich. “This would also be the first time in a while
that we would see the IPO of an insurer in Europe, that’s meant
to fund future growth and not born out of necessity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  