-- 
Senate Democrats Told to Embrace U.S. Spending Cuts or Risk a Voter Rebuff

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/democrats-told-to-embrace-spending-cuts-or-risk-voters-rebuff.html
Democratic senators gathered at a
Virginia resort last week to plot political strategy got
alarming news from a trusted pollster: Republicans are winning
the debate over dealing with the  budget deficit .  The Democrats learned that while the public’s top concern
is improving the economy, more voters view cutting spending
rather than investing as the best way to do so. And right now,
they trust Republicans more to do the trimming.  These views were pronounced among independents, whose
support Democrats will need in 2012 to hold the Senate,
recapture the House and keep President  Barack Obama  in office.  The data, presented to Democratic senators at their retreat
by Geoff Garin, president of Peter D. Hart  Research Associates ,
and obtained by Bloomberg News, highlight a dilemma for Obama
and Democrats in the showdown with Republicans over federal
spending. They must find a way to show the public they’re
willing to cut, and they’re divided over how far to go.  The message for Democrats, Garin said in an interview, is
that their dispute with Republicans “can’t be framed as a
debate between dealing with the deficit and not dealing with the
deficit.” Democrats “have to make sure that this is posed in
terms of the right way and the wrong way” to reduce the deficit
“in a way that won’t harm the economy,” he said.  Spending Freeze  Senate Democrats yesterday backed Obama’s call for a five-
year freeze on domestic spending controlled by Congress, just
before visiting the White House to huddle with the president on
budget strategy. They called the freeze part of an agenda for
creating jobs and placing the country on firmer fiscal footing.  Some Democrats said they need to go further.  “I think we have to” go beyond Obama’s budget proposal in
seeking ways to decrease the deficit, said Senator  Chris Coons ,
a Delaware Democrat. He said he’s “cautiously optimistic”
about prospects for a bipartisan agreement on overhauling
federal entitlement programs, such as Medicare, and the  tax
code .  “Americans are looking for leadership, and this is an
opportunity for Democrats to show that we’re serious,” Coons
said.  Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat facing re-
election next year, said it’s difficult to agree on spending
reductions because each program has a loyal following.  “Cutting is essential, and the public wants us to cut, but
once you get into the details, then it gets to be a little
stickier,” McCaskill said.  Poll Findings  Garin’s research, based on a survey of 1,100 likely voters
conducted Feb. 3-5, underscored that challenge. While it found
two-thirds of the public supportive of significant steps to
address the deficit, it also found large majorities opposed
specific cuts to such programs as education,  law enforcement  and
disease research. Pluralities called capping entitlement
spending or cutting defense expenditures unacceptable.  It showed deeper concern with the deficit and enthusiasm
for spending cuts than some other recent surveys, including a
December Bloomberg National poll that found the public believed
it was more important to “minimize sacrifice” than to take
“bold and fast” action to pare the debt. A CBS News/New York
Times poll conducted Feb. 11-14 found just 7 percent concerned
about the deficit compared to 48 percent who called jobs and the
economy the most important problem.  Garin’s poll also found jobs and the economy outranked the
deficit on the public’s list of concerns, 54 percent to 34
percent. Yet the survey showed that 50 percent of voters cited
cutting federal spending as the top priority for improving the
economy, while 40 percent named  job creation .  Republican Edge  Respondents gave Republicans an edge over Obama in dealing
with the budget -- with 43 percent saying they trusted
Republicans more on the issue, compared with 38 percent for the
president -- while Democrats in Congress were trusted by 31
percent. The advantage for Republicans was even more pronounced
among independents, 40 percent of whom saw them as more likely
to act on the deficit, versus 18 percent for Democrats.  Obama asserts that his  2012 budget  embraces budget-cutting.
The administration projects the plan would reduce the deficit,
estimated to hit $1.6 trillion this year, by more than $1
trillion over a decade.  Some Democrats assailed Obama for proposals that included
cuts to home energy assistance funding and community service
grants.  “Nickel-and-diming our way to economic recovery,
especially on the backs of working Americans who did nothing to
cause our economic problems, is not the right way to go,” said
Representative Raul Grijalva, an Arizona Democrat who is
chairman of Congress’ Progressive Caucus.  House Debate  Republicans also confront divisions over how deeply to cut.
Fiscally conservative House Republicans last week insisted on --
and ultimately won -- bigger reductions in a budget package
proposed by party leaders. This week, as the House debates
cutting spending for the rest of the 2011 fiscal year by $61
billion, some Republicans pushed for more cuts.  Garin’s poll indicated that if Republicans are viewed as
overreaching on spending cuts, they could lose support among
independents.  Democrats have been quick to draw a contrast between the
parties, billing their approach as prudent while attacking
Republicans’ as rash.  Embracing Obama’s five-year freeze is “serious belt-
tightening,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the third-
ranking Democrat.  “We are being responsible,” Schumer told reporters
yesterday. Republicans “are being reckless,” he said.  Republicans counter that they’re listening to the message
voters sent in November’s elections.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said Democrats should “stop thinking about what
they can get away with and start thinking about what’s actually
needed to solve this crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  