-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE, Dodd-Frank, KB Home: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-17T12:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/deutsche-boerse-nyse-dodd-frank-credit-cards-compliance.html
  Deutsche Boerse AG  will likely face
an in-depth review by European Union antitrust regulators of its
$9.53 billion bid for NYSE Euronext, a deal that would create
the largest owner of equities and derivatives markets, lawyers
said.  Authorities may also demand changes before approving a deal
that would leave more than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-
traded derivatives market in the hands of one organization,
according to the lawyers.  Gaining approval “is likely to be complicated and will
take a long time,” said Simon Holmes, a partner at SJ Berwin
LLP, in a telephone interview from London. A two-stage probe
lasting as long as five months is “likely,” said Matthew Hall,
a Brussels-based lawyer with McGuire Woods LLP.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse already sparred with the EU
antitrust agency in its aborted attempt to buy Euronext in 2006.
That deal risked competition in derivatives trading as well as
clearing and settlement of transactions, people familiar with
the EU review said at the time. After saying it was ready to
make “far-reaching proposals” to regulators, the German
company withdrew its offer and Euronext accepted a rival bid
from NYSE Group Inc. to form the first trans-Atlantic exchange.  This week’s plan would combine  NYSE Euronext ’s Liffe and
Eurex, the exchange jointly owned by Deutsche Boerse and the
Swiss Stock Exchange.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission’s antitrust
unit, declined to comment yesterday on a deal which regulators
hadn’t yet been asked to approve.  Deutsche Boerse’s merger plans may also be challenged over
any attempt to shift Frankfurt’s stock exchange out of Germany,
said the exchange’s regulator, the economy ministry of Hesse, on
Feb. 11.  Separately, a shareholder of NYSE Euronext has sued to
block the merger in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. The
all-stock transaction is “grossly inadequate” and resulted
from a flawed process, lawyers for shareholder Samuel T. Cohen
claimed in the complaint made public yesterday. The proposed
sale values NYSE at less than targets in similar deals, such as  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s purchase of Canada’s  TMX Group
Inc ., according to the lawsuit.  “There appears to have been no sales process, and the
proposed transaction did not emerge from an auction,” Cohen’s
lawyers said in the complaint. “A board that provides a would-
be acquirer with an exclusive opportunity to bid on a company
and fails to conduct a market-check, does not act in the
interests of shareholders.”  Investors said in another lawsuit, filed yesterday in New
York Supreme Court, said the sale will result in New York Stock
Exchange shareholders owning 40 percent of the acquired company,
with the remaining 60 percent held by Deutsche Boerse AG. The
sale offers “no meaningful premium to NYSE’s public
shareholders” and will “result in a loss of control of the
company and its prospects,” according to the complaint.    Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman for New York-based NYSE
Euronext, had no immediate comment on the Delaware complaint.
Pellecchia didn’t immediately return another call after regular
business hours seeking comment on the New York case.  The case is Cohen v. NYSE Euronext, CA6198, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington). The New York case is KT investments
II LLC v. Jan-Micheiel Hessels, 650407, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here and here.  Compliance Policy  Senate Republicans Seek More Time, Cost Analysis on Dodd-Frank  U.S. regulators implementing Dodd-Frank Act rules must
conduct “rigorous” cost-benefit analysis and allow adequate
time for public comment to ensure the law doesn’t do more harm
than good, Republican lawmakers said.  “The potential harm to our already-weak economy and the
public from ill-conceived rules cannot be underestimated,”
 Senate Banking Committee  members wrote in a letter dated Feb. 15
to regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  Bernanke and Geithner are scheduled to testify today at a
Banking Committee hearing marking a half year since passage of
Dodd-Frank, the biggest financial rules overhaul since the
1930s. In advance of the hearing, the panel’s 10 Republicans --
led by Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama -- asked the regulators
for responses to six questions about implementation of the law,
including whether they’re giving at least 60 days for public
comment on proposed rules and studies.  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, plans to make Dodd-Frank implementation a
primary focus of the committee, according to a draft agenda sent
to members on Feb. 2.  The panel is planning to conduct oversight of derivatives
rules being written by the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Fed’s plan to
cap debit-card “swipe” fees and the Volcker rule barring banks
from proprietary trading, according to the agenda.  “The scope and pace of agency rulemakings under the Dodd-
Frank Act make it more important than ever that agencies engage
in deliberative and rational rulemaking,” the Republicans wrote
in their letter, which was also sent to SEC Chairman Mary
Schapiro, CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair, and Acting Comptroller of the
Currency John Walsh.  Bankers’ Warning on U.S. Credit-Card Law Refuted as Rates Drop  Almost a year after new U.S. credit-card regulations took
effect, industry warnings of higher interest rates and tighter
credit haven’t come to pass, according to a report by the Center
for Responsible Lending.  President Barack Obama signed the Credit Card
Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act in May 2009,
calling the rules limiting fees and abrupt contract rate changes
“common sense reforms, designed to protect consumers.” The
provisions were phased in, with most, including prohibitions on
interest-rate increases in most cases during the first year an
account is opened, taking effect Feb. 22, 2010.  An executive of the American Bankers Association told
Congress in  March 2009  that the law might force issuers to raise
rates, reduce credit lines and impose more fees. The impact has
been more muted. The average rate on existing credit-card
balances fell to 13.67 percent in November from 14.37 percent a
year earlier, Federal Reserve  data  show. More households are
receiving card offers, according to researchers at Mintel
Comperemedia.  “Every time there’s been an attempt to regulate banking,
the industry tries to scare people by saying prices will
skyrocket and credit will be rationed,” said Josh Frank, a
senior researcher for the Center for Responsible Lending, a
Durham, North Carolina-based consumer-protection group. “The
unintended consequences didn’t happen, and we actually see
evidence of a positive consequence, which is transparency.”  The difference between stated and actual interest rates
narrowed to 0.2 percentage points in the fourth quarter from 2.3
percentage points at its peak in the third quarter of 2005,
according to the report released yesterday by the consumer
group, which used data from the Fed and banks.  “I think the CARD Act has been largely good for consumers,
but there have been trade-offs,” said Kenneth J. Clayton,
senior vice president of the American Bankers Association in
Washington, which represents the industry. “Some consumers who
used to have access to credit have lost that access or are
paying higher prices for it, but it’s hard to pinpoint what has
resulted from the economy versus changes to the regulatory
structure.”  It was Clayton who told a panel of the House Financial
Services Committee March 19, 2009, that “because the rules are
so strong, card lenders may have to increase interest rates in
general, lower credit lines, assess more annual fees and reduce
credit options for some customers.”  Interest rates may have declined because cards are being
offered to more creditworthy consumers, Clayton said. It may be
too soon to determine whether rates will rise and annual fees
will be imposed, he said.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which officially
begins work in July, will have a unit that will research and
write rules for credit cards. Elizabeth Warren, the special
adviser in charge of setting up the consumer bureau, has made
credit-card disclosure simplification one of her top two
priorities, alongside mortgages. She wants to reduce the length
of card agreements, and enable consumers to comparison-shop.  The bureau will host a conference on the CARD Act in
Washington on Feb. 22 to analyze how the industry has reacted
and how consumers are responding, Warren said Feb. 15 in remarks
prepared at a Consumers Union event in Hastings-on-Hudson, New
York.  For more, click here.  Courts  Starr Lawyer Says Restitution Deal Reached With U.S.  Kenneth I. Starr, the money manager who admitted to
defrauding his celebrity clients of as much as $50 million, has
reached a restitution agreement with the U.S. government, his
lawyer said in a letter to a federal judge.  The amount to be repaid to the victims wasn’t specified in
the Feb. 8 letter from Flora Edwards, Starr’s lawyer, to U.S.
District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan. Starr, who pleaded
guilty in September to wire fraud, money laundering and
investment adviser fraud, faces 121 to 151 months in prison when
he’s sentenced March 2.  Starr, 67, was arrested in May and accused of defrauding
clients including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon and actors
Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes. Edwards and the government
agreed, for sentencing purposes, that the amount lost in the
fraud totaled from $20 million to $50 million.  “Mr. Starr has been unable to prepare a financial
affidavit because the receiver appointed in the SEC case has
refused to turn over his personal records,” Edwards said in the
letter, referring to a civil suit brought against her client by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Starr’s capacity to compensate his victims is uncertain,
according to court papers.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 10-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The civil suit
is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-CV-04270, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Allstate Sues JPMorgan Over Mortgage-Backed Securities    Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co . alleging the bank
fraudulently sold residential mortgage-backed securities.  Allstate, based in Northbrook, Illinois, bought more than
$700 million of the securities from JPMorgan and other
defendants, including WaMu Asset Acceptance Corp. and Bear
Stearns Asset Backed Securities LLC, according to the lawsuit
filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Allstate was made to believe it was buying highly rated,
safe securities,” according to the complaint. “Defendants knew
the pool was a toxic mix of loans given to borrowers that could
not afford the properties and thus were highly likely to
default.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman at New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Officials at New York-based JPMorgan didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is Allstate Bank v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
650398/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam May Be Guilty of Conspiracy Without Trade  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam can be
convicted of joining in an insider trading conspiracy even if he
didn’t trade in particular stocks, a prosecutor said at a
pretrial hearing in Manhattan.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell yesterday that prosecutors can prove
Rajaratnam “violated the conspiracy law” merely by taking a
single act to further an illegal scheme. He needn’t have made an
actual trade, he said.  The argument came as Holwell denied requests from
Rajaratnam’s lawyers to exclude certain testimony that
prosecutors plan to offer at the March 8 trial. Prosecutors may
present proof of illegal trades in 35 stocks and portions of 173
wiretap recordings that may be vague or don’t explicitly refer
to an insider-trading scheme, the judge said.  “It’s the agreement that’s the nub” in an insider trading
conspiracy, and not the actual illegal trades, Holwell said.  Rajaratnam faces five counts of conspiracy and nine counts
of insider trading. To prove insider trading, prosecutors will
have to show actual trades. He denies wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Judge Orders Hearing Into U.S. Wiretaps of Trader Drimal  A federal prosecutor will take the witness stand when a
judge weighs whether the government properly recorded telephone
conversations between former Galleon Group LLC trader Craig
Drimal and his wife.  Drimal is among five men who face a May trial for trading
with inside information. U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan
yesterday ordered a hearing on March 9 into whether the
prosecutors who secretly taped Drimal’s phone conversations
“demonstrated a high regard” for Drimal’s privacy by not
listening into conversations between him and his wife.  “Very personal calls were captured,” Drimal’s lawyer,
Jane Anne Murray, said yesterday in an interview.  The judge previously rejected other arguments from Drimal
to exclude from evidence wiretapped phone conversations that he
had with traders. Murray said she wants Sullivan to exclude from
the trial all wiretaps if he finds prosecutors violated Drimal’s
privacy rights by recording calls with his wife.  “The court expects to hear testimony from the agents who
monitored” more than a dozen taped phone calls, Sullivan said
in a one-page order. “The court also expects to hear testimony
from the assistant U.S. attorney who supervised the agents.”  Drimal and the other defendants, all of whom deny any
wrongdoing, face charges in an insider-trading case involving
Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Also charged are
traders Zvi Goffer, Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman and
lawyer Jason Goldfarb.  Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Milan Assumed UBS, JPMorgan Did Swaps for Free, Witness Says  The City of Milan assumed banks that sold it derivatives,
and later restructured the contracts, did so for free, a former
city finance official testified at a trial where four firms face
fraud charges.  Angela Casiraghi, a witness for the prosecution, told a
court in Milan yesterday that she believed a commission of 0.01
percent paid to the banks for a 1.7 billion-euro ($2.3 billion)
bond sale in 2005 covered both the securities sale and the swaps
that adjusted payments on the borrowings.    Deutsche Bank AG , Depfa Bank Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  UBS AG  are accused of misleading Milan into thinking they could
save the city about 55 million euros by selling the bonds and
related derivatives and earning 101 million euros in hidden
fees. The banks deny the charges.  Officials for Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and UBS declined to
comment on yesterday’s testimony. Officials for Depfa didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail.  Casiraghi said the city considered the swaps part of the
bond sale. She said the city assumed that the banks restructured
the derivatives in subsequent years for free.  Asked whether city officials had discussed why the firms
might be working for nothing, Casiraghi said she thought the
banks were acting in their capacity as advisers to the
municipality.  “To this day I cannot come to terms” with the fact that
there may have been fraudulent activity, said Casiraghi.  Compliance Action  Mortgage Servicers May Face Sanctions, New Rules, Regulator Says  U.S. banking regulators investigating flawed foreclosures
are “finalizing” remedial requirements and sanctions against
mortgage servicers, Acting Comptroller of the Currency John
Walsh said.  Banking regulators, the Department of Justice, and state
attorneys general began reviewing foreclosures last fall at the
14 largest federally regulated loan servicers, including  Bank of
America Corp .,  Wells Fargo & Co .,  Citigroup Inc . and the GMAC
unit of Ally Financial Inc., after evidence surfaced that bank
employees and contractors were seizing homes without proper
review or complete documentation.  In testimony prepared for a hearing of the Senate Banking
Committee today, Walsh said regulators uncovered “critical
deficiencies and shortcomings” that “resulted in violations of
state and local foreclosure laws, regulations, or rules and have
had an adverse effect on the functioning of the mortgage markets
and the U.S. economy as a whole.”  Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens
told a congressional panel yesterday that government agencies
could come to agreement on enforcement actions and financial
penalties within about a month.  Most regulators found problems during their examinations
that would merit sanctions, but they have not yet decided
whether a unified settlement will take place, Stevens said
during a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee.  “We can work with the other regulators to come up with a
set of solutions, assuming the general outcomes and findings are
the same, or we can go individually,” Stevens said during the
hearing.  The attorneys general have said they plan to address the
loan-modification process in settlements with major servicers.
They may push to bar foreclosures when borrowers are already
seeking modification and to create a fund to compensate victims
of wrongful foreclosures.  It would be “really premature” to discuss the content or
timing of a possible settlement, Stevens said in an interview
after the hearing.  “We would love to come to a mutual outcome that respects
the need to get the market stabilized as well as respects all
the regulators involved and the institutions that are going to
need to settle,” he said.  Stevens said regulators were still trying to reach
consensus on the size of financial penalties. “This comes down
to, what are the actual violations we can identify?” he said.
“We haven’t aggregated them all together. What are the
potential costs that each agency could assess?”  Federal regulators also are considering changing the rules
governing foreclosures.  Changes being studied include a new fee structure for
servicers, independent reviews of rejected requests to ease loan
terms and a fund to compensate victims of improper foreclosures,
according to Sheila Bair, chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and federal and state regulators.  FSA Won’t Release Bank Pay Data Without Permission  The U.K. Financial Services Authority will ask bankers for
permission before handing over data on their pay to lawmakers,
the regulator’s chief executive, Hector Sants, said yesterday.  The FSA will “seek consent of all the firms” before
passing information on the size of senior bankers’ bonuses to
the U.K. Parliament’s Treasury Committee, Sants said in a letter
to Andrew Tyrie, the group’s chairman.  Tyrie asked the FSA to disclose more information on
executive remuneration at banks last month.  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc ,  Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  will disclose the pay of their five most senior
employees below board level as part of a deal with the
government, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said
last week.  “Assuming the firms are prepared to release the data and
given the reporting timetables of the firms, we would hope to be
able to write to you with the aggregated data by the end of
April,” Sants said in the letter to Tyrie.  Tyrie also asked for information on the number of people in
big firms whose pay is “equal to or more than, the remuneration
of the least well-paid executive board member” in his Jan. 31
letter.  The FSA doesn’t have this information and firms will have
to decide whether to provide it, Sants said. The FSA can’t
“compel firms to supply information where it is not required
for our regulatory function.”  European Union regulators approved laws to curb banker
bonuses in December, including limits on immediate cash payouts
and requiring part of the award to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  KBR to Pay $11.3 Million to U.K. to End Bribery Probe    KBR Inc . agreed to pay 7.03 million pounds ($11.3 million)
to U.K. prosecutors to end a four-year probe into bribes paid to
Nigerian officials to win a liquefied natural gas project
through a company unit based in England.  M.W. Kellogg Ltd., the U.K. subsidiary of KBR, self-
reported the illegal payments to the Serious Fraud Office and
cooperated with the investigation, the Houston-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  KBR and its former parent  Halliburton Co . paid $579 million
in February of 2009 to resolve U.S. criminal and regulatory
probes over claims bribes were paid to obtain contracts to build
the Bonny Island liquefied natural gas facility in Nigeria.  Halliburton will reimburse KBR for 55 percent of the U.K.
fine under an indemnity agreement. The penalty is equivalent to
the profits generated for M.W. Kellogg by the Bonny Island
project contracts, KBR said. KBR said last month the acquisition
Roberts & Schaefer and M.W. Kellogg would add total 17 cents a
share to its 2011 earnings.  “This settlement was expected and closes out an
unfortunate part of KBR’s past,” William Utt, the company’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “We have since
moved forward, conducting our business with transparency,
accountability and discipline.”  Prosecutors in the U.S. said KBR paid more than $180
million in bribes to unnamed Nigerian officials to win
engineering, procurement and construction contracts. The Bonny
Island project pipes natural gas from wellheads to processing
plants, converts it into purified LNG, and loads it onto tankers
for export.  Jack Stanley, KBR’s former chairman, pleaded guilty in 2008
in the U.S. to conspiring to violate the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act by helping to arrange the payment of the bribes.  “The SFO will continue to encourage companies to engage
with us over issues of bribery and corruption in the expectation
of being treated fairly,” Richard Alderman, the agency’s
director, said in a statement. “In cases such as this a
prosecution is not appropriate.”  Separately yesterday, a British lawyer wanted by U.S.
prosecutors over allegations he helped to pay bribes in Nigeria
for KBR will be extradited, after he dropped a legal challenge,
his lawyer, Brad Simon, said in an interview. The U.K. Court of
Appeal had ruled last month that Jeffrey Tesler should be sent
to Houston to face criminal charges.  Another U.K. citizen accused of paying bribes on behalf of
KBR, Wojciech Chodan, was extradited in December to Houston. He
pleaded guilty that month to violating the FCPA.  Billionaire Ambani Questioned by Investigators in Phone Probe  India’s federal investigators questioned Anil Ambani, the
billionaire chairman of  Reliance Communications Ltd ., for about
two hours yesterday amid a widening probe into the award of
mobile-phone licenses in 2008.  Ambani “met Central Bureau of Investigation officials to
clarify ongoing issues, relating to telecom matters for the
years 2001 to 2010,” an e-mailed statement from his group
spokesman Gaurav Wahi said. “No summons of any kind have been
issued by CBI” to Ambani.  The move by federal officials follows the arrests this
month of former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja, his
personal secretary and an ex-bureaucrat after the nation’s chief
auditor said the sale of permits at below-market prices may have
potentially cost the exchequer $31 billion. The questioning may
further undermine investor confidence in Ambani, 51, who
presides over the two worst performing stocks of the past year.  “Reliance Communications sends a lot of letters to
shareholders to say everything is fine, but my feeling is that
everything is not alright,” said Vienna-based Juergen Maier,
who manages a 250 million euro ($337 million) India equity fund
at Raiffeisen Capital Management. “It’s not the first time it’s
been questioned and this confirms the image investors have.”  Ambani is the second executive to be quizzed by the CBI in
as many days after Sanjay Chandra, managing director of Unitech
Ltd., India’s second-biggest developer, said Feb. 15 his company
is fully cooperating with the investigation.  The bureau has argued in court that Raja conspired to
benefit companies including Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as
 Etisalat DB Telecom India Ltd. , and  Unitech  by violating
guidelines in the license sale. India’s chief auditor said in
November second-generation airwaves were sold for an
“unbelievably low” $2.7 billion when they may have been worth
at least 10 times more.  For more, click here.  Ex  KB Home  Executive Gets Probation in Backdating Case  Gary A. Ray, KB Home’s former head of human resources who
had pleaded guilty in an investigation of stock-option
backdating at the homebuilder, was sentenced to three years’
probation.  Ray, who cooperated with the government in its prosecution
of Bruce Karatz, KB Home’s former chief executive officer, also
got four months’ home detention, a $10,000 fine, and was ordered
to do 600 hours community service, Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul
Stern said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ray pleaded guilty two years ago to conspiring with Karatz
in 2006 to “impede and obstruct” a probe into backdating that
was being conducted by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Karatz last year was sentenced to five years’ probation,
including eight months’ home detention, and a $1 million fine
after a jury trial.  “He’s pleased to have this behind him,” Ray’s lawyer,
Mark Beck, said in a telephone interview. “He’s prepared to go
back to work and go on with his life.”  The case is U.S. v. Gary Ray, CR08-1443, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 