-- 
Disney, ABC Station Owners Agree to Share Pay-TV Fees

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-02-17T21:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/disney-abc-station-owners-agree-to-share-fees-from-pay-tv.html
  Walt Disney Co ., owner of the ABC
network, said it reached an agreement with some affiliate
stations to collect a share of the retransmission fees they
obtain from pay-TV systems.  The agreement, along with accords Disney-owned stations
have reached with pay TV operators, covers 64 percent of the
U.S., Anne Sweeney, president of the Disney/ABC Television
Group, said at an investor meeting today. Stations may pay a
license fee to Disney or share fees they collect from cable and
satellite TV systems, she said. Other terms weren’t disclosed.  The agreement advances Disney’s effort to receive so-called
retransmission fees from pay-TV carriers for signals that are
available free over the air. The company announced such an
agreement today with  Verizon Communications Inc .’s FiOS pay-TV
service and has similar accords with  Cablevision Systems Corp .,
the New York-area cable company, and  Time Warner Cable Inc .  The Verizon accord is part of a larger deal that gives FiOS
subscribers online access to Disney’s ESPN cable programs along
with traditional pay TV viewing of the ABC Family, Disney and
Disney Junior cable channels, the companies said in a statement.
Terms weren’t disclosed.  The agreement with Verizon covering the cable channels and
ESPN online was announced in October. Starting today, Verizon’s
3.3 million FiOS customers have access to ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU and
ESPN Buzzer Beater, which provides live clips of college
basketball games through personal computers and mobile devices.  Interactive Cuts  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, closed unchanged at
$43.70 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have risen 17 percent this year, the second-highest
gain among stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Verizon,
based in  New York , gained 20 cents to $36.37.  The company also said it plans to cut operating expenses at
its money-losing interactive division by 25 percent by 2012.  The reductions are part of a drive to achieve profitability
at the division by 2013, John Pleasants and James Pitaro, co-
heads of the interactive business, told investors at the meeting
in Anaheim, California.  The division, which posted a loss of $234 million for all
of fiscal 2010, plans to reduce spending on video games for
consoles by 50 percent over the next few years.  In July, the company agreed to buy Playdom Inc. for $563.2
million, acquiring the second-biggest maker of games played on
Facebook Inc. and MySpace websites, and completed the purchase
of Tapulous Inc., a developer of music-related video games for
Apple Inc. products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  