-- 
Dollar Near One-Week Low Versus Euro as Recovery Signs Damp Safety Demand

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-02-17T06:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/dollar-near-one-week-low-versus-euro-as-recovery-signs-curb-safety-demand.html
The dollar traded near a one-week
low against the euro before reports forecast to show European  consumer confidence  rose and an index of U.S. leading indicators
gained, adding to signs the global recovery is strengthening.  The yen was close to two-week low versus the euro as Asian
stocks extended a rally in shares around the world and commodity
prices gained, reducing demand for safer assets.  Australia ’s
dollar traded about 0.2 percent below a nine-month high against
the yen as investors bet the South-Pacific nation will keep its
yield advantage over Japan.  South Korea ’s won rose as overseas
investors boosted their stock holdings.  “Economies worldwide appear to be recovering firmly,”
said Hideki Amikura, deputy general manager of foreign exchange
in Tokyo at Nomura Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest brokerage. “There’s likely to be a mild bias to sell
the yen and the dollar.”  The dollar traded at $1.3557 per euro as of 6:48 a.m. in  London  from $1.3569 in  New York  yesterday, after declining to
$1.3609, the weakest since Feb. 11. The greenback was at 83.61
yen from 83.68 yen. The yen was at 113.32 per euro from 113.55,
after falling to 113.68, the lowest since Jan. 28.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of shares advanced 0.5 percent
today, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index both gained 0.6
percent yesterday.  European Confidence  An index of consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
improved to minus 11 this month from minus 11.2 in January,
according to a Bloomberg survey before the figures are released
today. The U.S.  Conference Board’s  gauge of the outlook for the
next three to six months rose 0.2 percent in January, a seventh
monthly increase, a separate survey showed.  The dollar weakened yesterday as minutes of the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s January meeting showed policy makers took a
more optimistic view of the  U.S. economy , while maintaining
their dissatisfaction with job growth as they pressed forward
with monetary stimulus.  The so-called Aussie was supported against the yen after  Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant Governor Philip Lowe said
global commodity prices are likely to remain elevated for an
extended period and tighter monetary policy in regions including
Asia may be needed.  Australia’s key interest rate of 4.75 percent compares with
0.1 percent in Japan, encouraging investors to borrow in the
Asian nation and buy assets in the South Pacific one. The risk
in such trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  ‘Reasons to Buy’  “The yen is starting to look a little soft, and part of
that is widening rate differentials with the rest of the world
with the  Bank of Japan  still happy to keep rates unchanged,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “There are still plenty of reasons to buy”
the Aussie and sell the yen.  Australia’s currency traded at 83.87 yen from 83.95 yen
yesterday, when it rose to 84.01, the strongest since May 13.  Losses in the yen were tempered on speculation civil unrest
will keep spreading in the Middle East, boosting demand for the
relative safety of Japan’s currency.  Clashes between security forces and anti-government
protesters killed 2 people overnight in the Bahraini capital
Manama, human rights groups said. Anti-government activists also
demonstrated in Libya and Yemen. Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said yesterday two Iranian gunboats are
preparing to sail to  Syria  through  Egypt ’s  Suez Canal  and called
the move a “provocation.”  ‘Much Uncertainty’  “The current situation in the Middle East gives us too
much uncertainty,” said Tsunemasa Tsukada, chief manager for
currencies and financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest financial group
by market value. “This geopolitical risk makes it harder to
invest in riskier assets, and money is likely to flow into safe-
haven currencies such as the yen and Swiss franc.”  The won strengthened as foreign investors bought more
Korean stocks than they sold for the first time in three days.  The currency also gained on speculation  China  will allow
faster appreciation of the yuan before a meeting of finance
ministers from the Group of 20 nations starts tomorrow.  “The won didn’t have a great week in the past week due to
heavy outflows but some of those flows are turning less negative
now and that’s supportive,” said Nick Verdi, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Barclays Plc in Singapore. strategist at Barclays
Plc in  Singapore . “The other factor that is helping Asian
currencies including the won is the yuan. China may fix the
dollar-yuan lower as we head into the G-20 meeting.”  The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,117.40 per dollar, after
rising to 1,114.85, the strongest since Feb. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ronnie Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 