-- 
Euro Declines as Rising Producer-Prices Threaten Response to Debt Crisis

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-02-18T12:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/dollar-yen-head-for-weekly-decline-before-french-italian-economic-data.html
The euro fell against most of its
major peers as data showed producer prices in  Germany  rose
faster than forecast, fueling concern that policy makers will
have to raise  interest rates , stifling the economic recovery.  The euro declined against the dollar and the yen ahead of
German elections beginning on Feb. 20 that will test voter
appetite for supporting weaker euro-region nations. Producer
prices in Europe’s largest economy jumped 1.2 percent from
December, twice the 0.6 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The pound rose against the euro and the
dollar amid speculation that inflation may soon force policy
makers to raise interest rates.  “The euro’s recent rebound is running out of steam,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “The market is getting uncomfortable with inflation
headlines although we think the ECB may not be able to do much
given the problem in the peripheral countries. The elections
will add further uncertainty to the debt crisis debate.”  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3584 as of 7:47 a.m. in  New York . It weakened to 113.29 yen from 113.37. The pound
strengthened 0.3 percent to 83.86 pence per euro and 0.2 percent
to $1.6204.  The region’s shared currency dropped 0.8 percent this week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of shares gained for a third
day, rising 0.5 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index was little
changed, as were futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  French Sentiment  The euro stayed lower after a survey showed business
confidence in  France  fell in February for the first time in
three months on signs domestic demand is slowing.  The country’s Business Sentiment Indicator dropped to 106
from 108, the Insee said today. Economists forecast a reading of
109, according to the median of 12 estimates gathered by
Bloomberg News.  Ten-year German bunds yielded 40 basis points below its
U.S. counterparts, the biggest gap in more than a week.  The euro also declined as data showed financial
institutions remain dependent on the  European Central Bank  for
funding. Euro-region banks borrowed 16 billion euros ($21.7
billion) in overnight loans via the ECB’s marginal lending
facility yesterday. That’s the most since June 2009 and up from
15.8 billion euros in the previous day.  “It’s not clear if this is a one-off, but I think it’s
fair to say the ECB’s emergency facilities are still needed and
that is not going to support market confidence in the euro
region,” said Adrian Schmidt, a currency strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London.  The dollar declined this week as signs of a global economic
recovery damped demand for the safest assets. The Dollar Index,
which measures the greenback against the currencies of six of
its major trading partners, is 0.6 percent lower since Feb. 11
at 78.026.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  