-- 
Head Abandons Offering After Shareholders Turn on Gold-Medal Ski Maker

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-02-17T09:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/head-abandons-offering-after-shareholders-turn-on-gold-medal-ski-maker.html
  Head NV , the maker of skis for
Olympic champions Bode Miller and  Lindsey Vonn , canceled a
rights offer after shareholders revolted against the plan, which
threatened to dilute their equity by as much as 92 percent.  Head won’t sell as many as 200 million new preference
shares and will seek alternative sources of funding, the
Amsterdam-based company said today. The stock dropped a record
50 percent yesterday in Vienna and has lost more than 60 percent
since the offer was announced Feb. 11.  “The offering has not been well received and the number of
eligible shareholders who have exercised their entitlement to
subscribe for offer shares has been lower than anticipated,”
the company said in a statement.  Head, the world’s biggest maker of ski bindings and tennis
balls, was trying to raise around 9.5 million euros ($12.9
million) to prop up its business. The company, with 319 million
euros in revenue in 2009, has lost money in five of the last
eight years. Head will report preliminary 2010 results Feb. 24.  Investors had criticized the offer, which would have given
shareholders the right to buy 2.27 preferred shares for every
security they owned. Holders who didn’t participate would have
been “immediately diluted by approximately 69.3 percent,” the
company had said. The dilution of their stock’s value would have
risen to 92 percent if preference shares were later swapped into
common stock.  “We listened to our shareholders and reacted,” Clare Vincent, a Head spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  Austrian regulators had begun investigating whether Head
was manipulating the market, financial market authority co-
Chairman Kurt Pribil said in a Feb. 16 interview.  Investors had also complained to regulators that the
timeframe for the offer was too short. U.S. investors who bought
Head stock before its delisting from the New York Stock Exchange
in 2008 were ineligible to participate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net 
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  