-- 
Leading Economic Indicators in U.S. Climb for the Seventh Straight Month

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-17T17:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/leading-u-s-indicators-rise-a-seventh-month-in-sign-expansion-to-continue.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in January for the seventh straight month, signaling the
expansion will extend into this year.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.1 percent after rising 0.8
percent in December, the New York-based group said today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was a
0.2 percent gain.  Rising  consumer spending , business investment and exports
are ensuring the economy continues to grow even as housing
remains depressed. Today’s report is in line with the view of
Federal Reserve policy makers, according to minutes of their
meeting released yesterday, that the recovery is on a “firmer
footing” while the labor market was improving ‘gradually.”  “The economy will continue to grow solidly over the next
couple of quarters,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist
at UniCredit Group in  New York , who accurately forecast the gain
in the index. “Consumer spending will be the engine of growth.
The labor market continues to improve.”  Estimates of 56 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a drop of 0.7 percent to a gain of 0.7 percent.  Separately, the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  today
reported that manufacturing in the region expanded this month at
the fastest pace in seven years, underscoring factories’
contribution to the expansion.  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
32-month high. The  S&P 500  increased 0.1 percent to 1,337.59 at
12:20 p.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  also climbed,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 3.57
percent from 3.62 percent late yesterday.    Consumer confidence  last week held near a two-month low,
and more Americans turned pessimistic on the outlook for the
economy as gasoline prices increased, a separate report showed
today.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
US Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 43.4 in the period
to Feb. 13 compared with minus 46 the prior week. Twenty-nine
percent of those surveyed said the economy will worsen, the most
since November and up from 23 percent in early January.  Six of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by the interest-rate spread and the stock
market.  Interest-Rate Spread  The interest-rate spread between the overnight federal
funds rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note widened,
boosting the index by 0.34 point.  The stock market rally added 0.12 point. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index, which reached a 32-month high yesterday, is up
6.3 percent since the beginning of the year.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer expectations, which rose to 69.3 in January from 67.5
in December, added 0.05 point to the leading gauge.  Supplier delivery times and new orders for consumer and
capital goods also contributed to the index. Slower deliveries
signal factories are having trouble keeping up with demand.  Four of the index components retreated.  Building permits subtracted 0.29 point from the measure.
Permits, an indicator for future construction, fell 10 percent
to a 562,000 annual pace in January, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. Money supply, weekly jobless claims and the
factory workweek also took away from the index.  Coincident Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.1 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators decreased 0.1 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .    CSX Corp ., the second-largest publicly traded U.S.
railroad, is among companies benefiting as the recovery
generates demand.  “The economy is growing, it’s growing at a nice, gradual
pace, nothing too fast, nothing too quick,” Oscar Munoz, chief
financial officer of Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX, said on a
conference call on Feb. 15. “It’s perfect for the kind of
business we run.”  Jobless Claims  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for  consumer
goods , bookings for capital goods and the money supply adjusted
for inflation.  Central bank officials “continued to express
disappointment in both the pace and the unevenness of the
improvements in labor markets,” while also judging the recovery
to be on a “firmer footing,” the Fed said in minutes of its
Jan. 25-26 meeting, released yesterday in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  