-- 
Heating Oil, Gasoline Futures Slip as Crude Oil Spreads Narrow

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-17T22:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/heating-oil-gasoline-futures-slip-as-crude-oil-spreads-narrow.html
Heating oil and gasoline fell as
Brent crude oil in  London  dropped, reducing the cost for
refiners on the U.S. East Coast, and as the European benchmark
Brent’s premium over West  Texas  Intermediate oil slipped.  Gasoline and heating oil moved in the same direction as
Brent for the fourth straight day. Refineries supplying fuel to  New York  Harbor, the delivery point for heating oil and gasoline
futures, use crude oil grades priced relative to the European
benchmark. Gasoline and WTI have moved in opposite directions on
nine of 13 trading days in February.  “WTI and Brent are moving in opposite ways,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , London-based head of commodity markets strategy
at BNP Paribas SA. “You’re probably looking at some profit
taking by those who shorted the WTI-Brent spread. There does not
appear to be any material change to the circumstances that have
led to the blowout in the spread to suggest a rapid narrowing.”  Heating oil for March delivery dropped 4.24 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $2.7324 a gallon on the Nymex.  The WTI-Brent spread, based on April futures traded on
Nymex and ICE Futures Europe, dropped $2.19 to $13.75 a barrel.
Product futures had followed Brent to 28-month highs as the
spread reached a record $15.94 on record-high inventories of oil
at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the Nymex contract’s delivery point.  Changing Positions  Traders altered positions on the spreads before the Feb. 22
expiration of the Nymex-traded WTI March contract, which gained
$1.37, or 1.6 percent, to settle at $86.36. April-delivery Brent
on London’s ICE Futures exchange dropped $1.19, or 1.1 percent,
to $102.59 after rising earlier when Middle East protests spread
to Libya, Bahrain and Yemen, threatening fuel shipments.  “Before Tuesday’s crude expiration on the Nymex, we could
see a whole lot more of this in the next few days,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana, Texas. U.S. markets will be closed on Feb. 21
for the Presidents Day holiday.  Heating oil declined as normal temperatures were projected
in the U.S. Northeast Feb. 22 through March 2, according to the  National Weather Service ’s  Climate Prediction Center . The
Northeast is the largest user of heating oil.  “We’re getting toward the end of the season and warmer
weather is on the horizon,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president
of Paramount Options Inc. in New York and a trader at the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Gasoline Declines  Gasoline also fell as two U.S. government reports, showing
a rise in the cost of living and more first-time jobless claims,
indicated less motor fuel demand.  “People are going to be cutting back on buying gas with
the not-so-rosy economic picture,” said  Dan Flynn , an energy
analyst at PFGBest in Chicago in  Chicago . “But this market is
nervous and just waiting for more headlines out of the Middle
East. We’re going to see some choppy trading.”  Gasoline for March delivery dropped 1.7 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $2.5277 a gallon after earlier touching
$2.5554, the highest intraday price for the front-month contract
since Sept. 29, 2008.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent for a second
month, the Labor Department said in  Washington . Applications for
jobless benefits rose 25,000 to 410,000 in the week ended Feb.
12, Labor Department figures showed.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.2 cents to $3.145 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 