-- 
EDF Will Replace Parts in Diesel Generators at Nuclear Plants

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-17T17:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/edf-will-replace-parts-in-diesel-generators-at-nuclear-plants.html
Electricite de  France  SA, the
biggest operator of atomic plants, said it will replace parts in
diesel generators at seven nuclear reactor sites because of
premature wear.  EDF started replacing bearing brushings of back-up
generators at the Blayais, Bugey, Chinon, Dampierre, Gravelines,
Saint Laurent and Tricastin power stations on Feb. 12, the
operator of 58 nuclear reactors at 19 sites said in a statement
today.  The anomaly is of “no consequence to the operation and
safety” of the  power plants , which each have three back-up
generators, EDF said. The replacement can be done while the
plant’s reactors are working.  France’s nuclear safety watchdog Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire rated the incidents at level 1 at all plants except at
Tricastin, where all three back up generators may potentially
have the problem and the incident was rated level 2, according
to a statement from the ASN.  EDF reactors have been hit by a string of technical issues
in recent years. The utility last week said it found flaws in
the water injection systems used to keep reactor cores cool in
the event of an accident at nine of its 19 sites. The utility is
also in the process of replacing steam generators at two nuclear
reactors a year on safety concerns, according to a French safety
watchdog.  State-controlled EDF has plans to spend 35 billion euros
($48 billion) to extend the operational lifetime of France’s
existing reactors, which were connected to the grid between 1977
and 1999. Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has said half
the plants are now reaching the stage when major parts such as
generators need replacing. The utility plans to raise spending
in France this year compared to last.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris on   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  