-- 
Hedge Funds May Pose Systemic Risk in Crisis, U.S. Report Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-02-17T15:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hedge-funds-may-pose-systemic-risk-in-crisis-u-s-report-says.html
Hedge funds and insurers might
threaten U.S. economic stability in a time of crisis, according
to a report aimed at helping regulators decide which non-bank
financial companies warrant Federal Reserve supervision.  An exodus of hedge-fund investors could “cause activity in
some markets to freeze,” said the Feb. 3 report by staff of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council. The report, obtained by
Bloomberg News, also said the failure of a large insurance
company could “result in dramatic and destabilizing actions
being taken by investors.”  The 80-page report is a preliminary draft that, without
making recommendations, offers a glimpse of issues regulators,
including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , will consider when deciding which
firms should be designated “systemically important” and
warrant central bank scrutiny. The council, created by last
year’s Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law to prevent another
financial crisis, may begin making those rulings by midyear.  Companies including Blackrock Inc., the world’s largest
money manager, and lobbyists for the hedge-fund and mutual-fund
industries have made the case to regulators they aren’t
important enough to the financial system to merit the
designation. Financial executives have said the costs of more
regulation would put them at a disadvantage to their
competitors.  Possible Criteria  The report also details possible criteria, marked
“confidential,” that regulators could use to monitor risks
related to firms’ market share and portfolio holdings. Some of
the information is already available through public filings. In
other cases, the companies would have to document financial
information never before released to regulators.  For example, regulators could require  hedge funds  to
provide information on value-at-risk, a measures of risk
relative to investor capital. A ratio that’s too high “can make
a fund more vulnerable to runs,” the report said.  The oversight council has authority to make companies under
its jurisdiction raise capital, increase liquidity and sell
assets deemed too concentrated in one segment of the economy.
The staff report’s considerations “are meant to provide context
and an initial filter” for regulators as they consider
individual firms, the document said.  AIG,  GE Capital   Geithner, the council’s chairman, suggested in September
that such a list could encompass New York-based  American
International Group Inc ., the bailed-out insurer, and GE
Capital, a unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric
Co . that benefited from a government backstop for financial-
company debt.    Steven Adamske , a Geithner spokesman, declined to comment
on the document.  The FSOC report describes a $40 trillion investment
management industry that includes retirement programs, private
equity firms and $2.4 trillion in specialty funds that banks use
to manage their assets. It also discusses the role of real
estate lenders, broker-dealers and futures commission merchants.  Futures dealers who handle swaps, commodities and foreign
exchange agreements could have a systemic impact if a “large
default” set off a chain reaction within the industry, the
report said. Such an event “could have devastating
ramifications,” and regulators should assess a firm’s ability
to cause such an event, the report said.  Insurance Failure  In the case of insurance, a big company’s failure could
“reduce overall investor sentiment,” the report said. It noted
relationships between the life insurance and corporate bond
sector, and between municipal bond markets and property/casualty
insurers.  “Insurance itself is essential for many day-to-day
activities, such as shipping goods, purchasing cars or extending
mortgages,” the report said. “A sector-wide crisis may have an
adverse macroeconomic effect due to its role in the general
conduct of economic activity.”  The report said regulators historically had “little
reliable information” on the “opaque” hedge fund industry,
which plays “a significant role in U.S. financial markets.” It
said the industry has the potential for systemic impact and
noted that about 200 advisers manage 80 percent of industry
assets.  The  Managed Funds Association , a Washington-based lobbying
group whose members include D.E. Shaw & Co., Citadel LLC and SAC
Capital Advisors LP, argued in a November letter to Geithner
that hedge funds are too small to be systemically important,
noting that the mutual-fund and banking sectors are much bigger.  Private-Equity Firms  Private-equity firms could be a source of risk because of
the “highly leveraged nature of their portfolio companies and
their use of bridge loans,” according to the staff report. It
noted that out of the industry’s roughly 2,000 managers, about
250 oversee more than $1 billion in assets each.  The report also discussed retirement plans sponsored by
non-profit organizations and state and local governments. “Many  retirement plans  are very large,” the document said.
“Therefore, they could pose potential systemic risk.”  Money market funds, or MMFs, have systemic impact when they
incur losses because the industry can be susceptible to runs,
the report said.  In 2008, the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund became the
biggest money-market fund and the first in 14 years to “break
the buck,” meaning the value of a share fell below $1 and
investors faced losses. Reserve failed after investing in debt
issued by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., the investment bank
that declared the biggest-ever U.S. bankruptcy.  Money-Market Funds  “Even a modest-sized MMF breaking the buck could, in
principle, trigger a broad and damaging run,” the report said.
“However, no individual MMF may warrant designation applying
the factors” laid out in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law.  So-called liquidity funds, or unregistered money-market
funds, suffered large investor withdrawals in 2007, the report
said. “Although these runs may have been disruptive, they do
not appear to have become systemic.” If the funds grow rapidly
there could be “greater potential to pose systemic risk in the
future.”  The staff report says some types of firms, such as venture
capital funds and community development financial institutions,
aren’t likely to pose risks because they generally don’t make
leveraged bets. Closed-end funds, a type of  investment company 
that issues equity securities, don’t offer investors redemption
rights and therefore “primarily raise investor-protection
concerns rather than potential systemic consequences,” the
report said.  Thrift holding companies may warrant further study, the
report said.  In addition to Geithner and Bernanke, the council’s 10
voting members include the chairmen of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  