-- 
Medicare-Fraud Suspects Arrested as U.S. Expands Task Force in Crackdown

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-02-17T20:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/medicare-fraud-suspects-are-said-to-be-arrested-as-u-s-expands-task-force.html
Federal agents charged more than 100
suspects in nine cities with Medicare fraud -- the most ever in
one day -- in the latest U.S. effort to crack down on schemes to
bilk the health-care program for the elderly and disabled,
according to the  Justice Department .  At least 112 suspects, including doctors, nurses and
company owners, were charged today in various cases, and
searches and arrests are continuing, said Alisa Finelli, a
department spokeswoman. The cases involve more than $225 million
in alleged false billings.  “We are pleased to announce the largest federal health-
care fraud takedown in our nation’s history,” Attorney General  Eric Holder   said  at a news conference in Washington today.  Strike forces, used by the Justice Department and Health
and Human Services Department to crack down on Medicare fraud
since 2007, have charged more than 990 people with falsely
billing Medicare for more than $2.3 billion, the Justice
Department said in a  statement  today.  The strike forces, which operate in seven cities, are
expanding to include  Dallas  and  Chicago , Holder said.  Fraud Charges  Suspects were accused of submitting claims to Medicare for
treatments that weren’t necessary or were never provided. They
were charged with various health-care fraud crimes, including
conspiracy to defraud Medicare and money laundering. Suspects
allegedly participated in schemes involving home health care,
physical and occupational therapy and durable medical equipment,
according to the Justice Department.  More than 700 law enforcement agents from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, HHS inspector general’s office and
other agencies were involved in the crackdown.  Charges were filed in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Brooklyn,  New
York ; Detroit; Houston;  Los Angeles ; Miami; Tampa, Florida;
Dallas; and Chicago.  In Brooklyn, 10 people, including three doctors and a
physical therapist, were charged in schemes involving $90
million in false billings for physical therapy, proctology
services and nerve tests, according to the Justice Department.
In Detroit, 21 people were charged with defrauding Medicare of
more than $23 million.  HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, who joined Holder at the
news conference, said Medicare is trying to take steps to
prevent fraud before government funds are paid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  