-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Highest in a Week on Global Growth Outlook

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T22:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-highest-in-a-week-on-global-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
driving the benchmark index to a one-week high, as slowing food
inflation in  India  and signs of an improving U.S. economy
boosted investor confidence.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.3 percent to
1,111.92, the highest level on a closing basis since Feb. 8.
India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced for a
fifth day, climbing 1.1 percent.  China ’s benchmark stock index
rose for a sixth day on speculation an improving global economy
will bolster demand for exports. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
rose 0.2 percent. Currencies strengthened, led by a 1.3 percent
increase in  South Africa ’s rand versus the dollar.  Consumer companies including Indian automaker Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. led gains in the MSCI emerging markets index after
the government said food-price gains slowed to a two-month low.
Technology and raw-materials shares also rallied after the
Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S. economic outlook for the
next three to six months increased 0.1 percent in January, while
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in February at
the fastest pace in seven years.  “The improving outlook of the  U.S. economy  is boosting
major exporting companies,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $28 billion in assets.  Emerging-market stocks have underperformed U.S. equities
this year, with the MSCI gauge falling 3.4 percent while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has jumped 6.6 percent, reaching the
highest level since June 2008 today.  Samsung, Bajaj Auto  Samsung Electronics Co., which gets 43 percent of its sales
from America and  Europe , gained 1 percent in Seoul trading.
Lenovo Group Ltd., China’s biggest maker of personal computers,
jumped 3.4 percent after saying third-quarter profit rose 25
percent, exceeding analysts’ estimates.  Mahindra & Mahindra shares climbed 2.1 percent and Bajaj
Auto Ltd., a Pune-based motorcycle maker, advanced 1.4 percent.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 11.05
percent in the week ended Feb. 5 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The
index gained 13.07 percent the previous week.  India’s Sensex index has rallied 6 percent from a seven-
month low on Feb. 10 as concern eased that the central bank will
stifle growth with interest-rate increases. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said yesterday that India wants to curb inflation
without hurting the economic expansion.  China Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 0.1 percent. China Hainan Rubber
Industry Group Co. rose to a record after the price of the raw
material jumped to an all-time high. Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel
Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. led gains for rare-earth producers after
Xinhua News Agency said China will boost mergers and
acquisitions in the industry.  Brazil’s stocks index rose 0.2 percent, increasing for a
second day as card-payment processors soared and  Brazil ’s
second-biggest steelmaker rallied on a rating increase. Redecard
SA climbed 5.9 percent to 20.56 reais. Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA, the steelmaker known as Usiminas, gained after
Deutsche Bank AG recommended buying the shares.  Credit-default swaps on Bahrain climbed 20 basis points to
287, the highest since July 2009, according to CMA. The
country’s pro-democracy protesters stepped up demands for the
government to resign after a security crackdown overnight that
left at least three people dead.  Bahrain, Persian Gulf  The dissent in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, follows the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular
movements in  Egypt  and  Tunisia  and brings unrest into the
Persian Gulf, where most of the Middle East’s oil is produced.  The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of  Persian Gulf  shares declined
for a fourth day, losing 0.2 percent. Qatar’s QE Index retreated
1.3 percent.  Swaps on Egypt rose for a fourth day, climbing 10 basis
points to 350, the highest in more than a week, according to
CMA. Contracts on  Israel  increased 5 basis points to 148 and
Qatar was 3 higher at 103, CMA prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  