-- 
Lenovo Profit Increases 25%, Exceeding Analysts' Estimates; Shares Advance

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-17T11:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/lenovo-profit-rises-25-on-computer-replacements.html
  Lenovo Group Ltd ., China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, said fiscal third-quarter profit
rose 25 percent, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as customers
replaced aging machines and component costs fell.  Net income increased to $99.7 million, or 0.98 cent a
share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, from $79.5 million, or
0.79 cent, a year earlier, Lenovo said today in a statement.
Profit was expected to be $86.1 million, according to the
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
rose 22 percent to $5.81 billion.  Lenovo climbed to the highest price in a month in  Hong Kong 
trading as the company benefited from businesses in China, U.S.
and Europe replacing computers with machines running on  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows 7. The maker of Thinkpad laptops is
buying control of  NEC Corp .’s PC division to expand in Japan and
is gaining sales in emerging markets such as Russia and India.  “The corporate replacement demand should remain quite
strong,” said Kirk Yang, who rates Lenovo shares “overweight”
at Barclays Capital in Hong Kong. The company is expected to
continue posting sales gains in emerging markets, he said.  The shares rose 3.4 percent to HK$4.92 at the 4 p.m. close
in Hong Kong trading. The stock has declined 1.2 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of HK$49.3 billion ($6.3
billion).  Replacement Cycle  Companies are a third of their way through the current
computer replacement cycle, which is expected to continue for
another two years, Chief Operating Officer Rory Read said on a
conference call today.  Growth in  China ’s PC market moderated last quarter as
demand was affected by falling stock markets, and the
introduction of tablet computers by competitors, Chief Executive
Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said on the call.    Apple Inc ., the world’s biggest technology company, started
sales of its iPad tablet computer in China in September. Lenovo
will shortly begin sales in China of its LePad tablet, priced at
a range of $400 to $1,000, before offering the product in
overseas markets later, Read said.  Lenovo, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, said revenue from
China rose 18 percent to $2.68 billion, or 46 percent of the
company’s total. That’s slower than the 34 percent growth posted
in the company’s emerging-market division, which includes sales
in India, Brazil and Russia.  Revenue at Lenovo’s mature-markets division, which includes
its operations in the U.S. and western  Europe , rose 22 percent
to $2 billion.  Profit Margin  Gross profit margin, or the percentage of sales left after
deducting the cost of goods sold, widened to 11.2 percent last
quarter from 10.3 percent three months earlier, Lenovo said.  The cost of components such as memory chips and liquid
crystal displays declined, helping to boost profitability at
Lenovo, according to Barclays’s Yang.  Lenovo, which moved its headquarters to the U.S. after
buying the PC division of  International Business Machines Corp .
in 2005, accounted for 10.4 percent of global PC shipments last
quarter, compared with 8.8 percent a year earlier, according to
research company IDC.    Hewlett-Packard Co ., the industry leader, saw its market
share drop to 19.5 percent from 20.2 percent, while third-ranked
Acer Inc. declined to 10.6 percent from 12.8 percent, according
to the Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher.  Lenovo, the world’s fourth-biggest PC maker by shipments,
followed  Dell Inc . in reporting results that topped analysts’
estimates because of demand from corporate customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  