-- 
Merkel Coalition Partner Softens Objection to Buying Daimler's EADS Stake

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-17T14:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/merkel-s-coalition-partner-softens-objection-to-germay-buying-eads-stake.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition
allies softened their objection to buying shares in European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. from  Daimler AG , increasing the
likelihood of a state holding in the owner of Airbus SAS.  Free Democratic Party lawmakers, who last week rejected
taking a stake in EADS, would support ownership of shares
through Germany’s state-owned development bank, KfW Group, until
a private investor is found, Juergen Koppelin said. Koppelin is
the ranking Free Democrat on the parliament’s budget committee.  “This would only be a temporary solution until we find a
private investor such as a consortium,” Koppelin said today in
a phone interview in Berlin. “Such an option must be the final
one -- the best would be to find a private investor.”  Germany is struggling to find ways to maintain its leverage
over EADS at parity with  France  as Daimler seeks to reduce its
15 percent stake, with a meeting scheduled for Feb. 23 in Berlin
to discuss the issue. German and French institutions have each
held equal stakes in EADS since it was created in 2000 to pool
European aerospace interests.  Stuttgart-based Daimler has offered to sell half of its 15
percent holding to the German government, the  Financial Times 
reported today, citing two people close to the talks. Merkel
will discuss buying a 15 percent stake, half from Daimler, the
other half from a banking consortium, the newspaper said.  ‘Undesirable’  Spokespeople in the Chancellery and the  Economy Ministry 
declined to comment on the report, as did Florian Martens, a
Daimler spokesman, and Nathalie Druecke, a spokeswoman for
Frankfurt-based KfW.  A 15 percent stake has a market value of about 2.7 billion
euros ($3.7 billion). EADS, based in Paris and Munich, has
gained 26 percent this year this year on the Paris exchange.  The Free Democrats’ Koppelin last week called a direct
state investment “undesirable,” saying that Germany shouldn’t
maintain its leverage through buying EADS shares. Lawmakers in
Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc stated their openness to
a government holding, a break in  Germany ’s historical reticence
in direct ownership in companies to uphold industrial interests.  Martin Lindner, a Free Democratic lawmaker who sits on the
parliamentary economic affairs committee, also said a state
holding can’t be “categorically ruled out” given Germany’s
industrial interests, according to a statement from his office.  Bavarian Jobs  “For lack of alternatives, the FDP may find it extremely
difficult to put up a fight against Merkel taking an EADS
stake,” Klaus-Heiner Roehl, a Berlin-based economist
specializing in industrial policy at the IW Economic Institute,
said in an interview. “Free market orthodoxy works only
imperfectly in the defense industry and the government may just
have to bite the bullet and purchase a stake in the company to
preserve a balance of Franco-German interests.”  The southern state of Bavaria, which employs more than
18,000 EADS workers, said this week it would also be open to a
state share purchase to preserve jobs in the region. The option
should be considered “in the most extreme case,” state Economy
Minister Martin Zeil said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars, has voting
rights over the 22.5 percent stake, including the stake held by
the consortium. The French government directly holds 15 percent,
with another 7.5 percent held by publisher  Lagardere SCA , which
has voting rights over its stake.  “We aim to maintain industrial leadership on the German
side,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said in
Chennai today. “There are things which have to be discussed in
the foreseeable timeframe. Whether this will lead to any changes
we will have to see.”  EADS oversees business in civil and military aviation, as
well as areas in space and security. While the participating
governments share the workload, they are also wary to guard a
balance on the  production line  as well as in management, with
France and Germany sharing most of the executive posts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  