-- 
Merscorp May Stop Members Foreclosing in Its Name

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-02-17T18:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/merscorp-may-stop-members-foreclosing-in-its-name-update1-.html
Merscorp Inc., operator of the
electronic-registration system that contains about half of all
U.S. home mortgages, will propose a rule change to stop members
from foreclosing in its name.  Merscorp, owned by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co . and other mortgage-industry companies, will make the
proposal “shortly,” according to an announcement dated
yesterday. U.S. courts have differed in recent years on whether
Merscorp’s MERS unit, as an agent for the mortgage owner, has
the right to bring a foreclosure action.  “We encourage members to bring foreclosures only in the
name of the holder of the note, in the name of the trustee or
the servicer of record acting on behalf of the trustee” of the
trust the mortgage is in, Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp said
in the  announcement , which is on its website.  Merscorp was created in 1995 to improve servicing after
county offices couldn’t deal with the flood of mortgage
transfers, Karmela Lejarde, a MERS spokeswoman, said in an
interview last year. The company’s Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems, or MERS, tracks servicing rights and
ownership interests in  mortgage loans  on its electronic
registry, allowing banks to buy and sell the loans without
having to record the transfer with the county.  ‘180-Degree’  “It is a 180-degree mandatory turnaround in the way they
planned to bring foreclosures,” said Christopher L. Peterson, a
law professor who has written several law-review articles on
MERS. “The entire business model was premised on MERS being the
national foreclosure plaintiff.”  MERS members have moved away from closing in MERS’s name
because of confusion over its standing, said Peterson, of the
University of Utah in  Salt Lake City . Foreclosing in their own
name requires mortgage companies to transfer the mortgage, which
MERS was set up to avoid, he said.  “This is a significant concession by MERS,” Alan White, a
law professor at Valparaiso University in  Indiana , said in a
telephone interview today. “I don’t think this move deals with
all the problems that MERS has created.”  Lejarde declined to comment.  MERS asked members not to foreclose in its name during a
90-day comment period after the rule change is announced. If
they do commence a foreclosure in its name, they must give the
company two weeks’ notice to allow it to verify that the
members’ employees were certified to sign documents on behalf of
MERS.  MERS halted foreclosures in its name in Florida in 2006,
according to rules on its  website . Violation of the rule, which
remains in effect, costs $10,000. Former Merscorp Chief
Executive Officer R.K. Arnold said in a September 2009
deposition in an Alabama foreclosure case that MERS made that
change because of a  Florida  court decision that “created
confusion about whether we could” foreclose.  Merscorp announced Arnold’s retirement on Jan. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 