-- 
EU, South Korea Trade Agreement Overcomes Final European Hurdle

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-02-17T11:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/eu-south-korea-trade-agreement-overcomes-final-european-hurdle.html
The European Union overcame its
final hurdle to a free-trade agreement with South  Korea  today
when the EU Parliament endorsed the accord, which will expand a
70 billion-euro ($95 billion) commercial relationship.  The  European Parliament  in Strasbourg, France, voted in
favor of the agreement that will make 99 percent of EU-South
Korea commerce duty-free within five years. The 27-nation
assembly gave its endorsement after reinforcing the possibility
of “safeguard” measures to protect EU manufacturers,
particularly carmakers, in the event of a surge in imports from
Korea. The accord comes into force this July.  The EU-Korea deal is the world’s second-biggest free-trade
pact, eclipsed only by the $1 trillion North American Free Trade
Agreement among the U.S., Canada and Mexico that began in 1994.
The EU and Korea signed the accord last October, 3 1/2 years
after negotiations began.  Companies that may benefit include pharmaceutical producers
such as London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , chemical makers
including  BASF SE , based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and consumer-
electronics manufacturers like Amsterdam-based Royal Philips
Electronics NV. Farm exporters, shipping businesses and the
financial- and legal-services industries also stand to gain.  European carmakers opposed the agreement, saying it will
give an unfair edge to companies such as  Hyundai Motor Co . and  Kia Motors Corp . because of a disparity in auto trade. The EU
imported about 450,000 Korean cars into its market of 15 million
in 2008 while exporting fewer than 40,000 autos to Korea, where
1 million new cars are sold annually.  Since then the gap has narrowed, with EU auto imports from
Korea falling to 294,000 last year while exports to Korea rose
to 64,000, according to data from the European Commission, the
bloc’s trade authority in Brussels.  The accord will eliminate Korean  import duties  worth 1.6
billion euros annually and European levies of 1.1 billion euros,
according to the EU. The pact could increase Korea’s gross
domestic product by as much as 5.6 percentage points over 10
years and create as many as 253,000 jobs in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy, according to a joint report by the country’s
state research institutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  