-- 
Eutelsat Chief Sees North Africa, Arab Unrest as Opportunity, Not Danger

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-02-18T14:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/eutelsat-first-half-profit-rises-25-to-174-4-million-euros.html
  Eutelsat Communications  SA Chief
Executive Officer Michel de Rosen said the unrest in north
African and Arab countries is not a threat for the world’s
third-largest satellite company and won’t hurt its business.  “Recent events are the illustration of how much people
want to be informed and that we’re in the middle of a digital
revolution,” de Rosen said in an interview today. “People in
the 21st century want access to information and data. They want
choice and we’re very well positioned to offer that.”  Demonstrators encouraged by the ouster of authoritarian
regimes in Egypt and  Tunisia  have taken to the streets of  Algeria ,  Bahrain ,  Libya ,  Iran , Jordan and Yemen.  The company, based in Paris, said yesterday that first-half
net income advanced 25 percent to 174.4 million euros in the six
months through Dec. 31, aided by demand for its orbital
positions. Revenue rose 13 percent to 575.9 euros. At the end of
2010, Eutelsat’s fleet was broadcasting 3,782 television
channels.  The stock fell 1.9 percent to 28.34 euros as of 2:41 p.m.
in Paris. Eutelsat has a market value of 6.2 billion euros
($8.49 billion).  Channels broadcast by Eutelsat in the Middle East and north
Africa increased 33 percent to 367 and those serving  Russia  and
Sub-Saharan  Africa  gained 34 percent to 607, the company said.  “The number of TV channels will continue to grow in the
future, especially in emerging countries,” de Rosen said.  High-Definition TV Demand  Eutelsat is increasing sales by adding high-definition TV
broadcasts for clients including Italian broadcaster Mediaset
SpA. It launched the KA-SAT satellite in December to meet demand
for fast Internet connection, which it will offer at prices
“similar” to those charged by broadband access providers, in  Europe  and some north African and Gulf states, the CEO said.  “All in-orbit tests for KA-SAT have been done with
positive results,” de Rosen said. “We expect it to be
operational in mid-2011 and satellite broadband to become mass-
market.”  Revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the fiscal year through June 2011 are seen
advancing to more than 1.12 billion euros and 875 million euros
respectively, the company said in July.  Eutelsat also projected at the time yearly average revenue
growth of more than 7 percent for the next three years. In the
same period, operating income before depreciation, amortization,
impairments and other operating income and charges as a
percentage of sales is projected to exceed the previous target
of 77 percent. The company today reiterated its targets.  “We’ve always delivered or over-delivered,” de Rosen
said. “We want to continue to do so as we’re obsessed with the
ambition to satisfy guidance and treat shareholders well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 