-- 
Hewlett-Packard Holder Seeks `Covington Report' on Hurd Ouster

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T22:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hewlett-packard-holder-seeks-covington-report-on-hurd-ouster.html
A  Hewlett-Packard Co . investor asked
a  Delaware  judge to release a law firm’s confidential report on
allegations of “sexual harassment” that led to  Mark Hurd ’s
ouster last year as chief executive officer.  The so-called Covington Report, prepared for the HP board
by lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP, is “a critical piece of
the puzzle” about Hurd’s departure, lawyers for shareholder
Ernesto Espinoza wrote to Delaware Chancery Judge Donald Parsons Jr. in court papers made public today.  “HP invokes the attorney-client privilege to shield the
Covington Report,” while Delaware courts “have repeatedly
recognized” that divulging such information may help avoid
“the perpetration of frauds” and corporate waste, plaintiff’s
lawyer Norman Monhait wrote in the brief.  Espinoza sued HP Nov. 18 in a sealed complaint seeking
company books and records as a part of his investigation into
possible wrongdoing by directors. The board granted Hurd a
severance package worth as much as $40 million, “rather than
terminate him for cause” with no money, according to the brief.  The internal investigation revealed that Hurd “had a close
personal relationship with contractor Jodie Fisher” and that
she received compensation, at times, where “there was not a
legitimate purpose,” Monhait wrote. While Hurd said he was
“unaware of her past adult film career,” the probe revealed
that he “searched out these movies and watched them on a
pornographic website,” according to Monhait.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-
based HP, the largest maker of computers, declined to comment on
the filings. Glenn Bunting, a spokesman for Hurd, also declined
to comment.  ‘Woefully Short’  Peter J. Walsh Jr., a lawyer for the company, said in court
papers that the report is covered by rules protecting the
confidentiality of attorney-client communications, and Espinoza
falls “woefully short” of showing that disclosure of the law
firm’s report is necessary and essential to his stated purpose.  Espinoza would have to show a “compelling and exceptional
need” to overcome the protections of attorney-client privilege,
HP lawyers said.  “Hewlett-Packard has already provided plaintiff copious
material concerning the conduct in question and has been
remarkably transparent in setting forth the bases for its
actions,” Walsh wrote in a court filing.  Gloria Allred’s Letter  Hurd, 54, under investigation by the  U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  over his separation from the company in
August, told Parsons in papers filed earlier that he should have
a say in Espinoza’s demand for company books and records because
a letter from lawyer Gloria Allred on behalf of Fisher is
personal and his alone, and should also be kept secret. Hurd
asked to be added as a party to the lawsuit.  The letter “was sent by Ms. Allred for the purpose of
attempting to arrange a private mediation” in a sexual
harassment case, Hurd said. Fisher has said the letter contains
“many inaccuracies,” according to Hurd’s court papers.  Hurd resigned as HP’s chairman and CEO on Aug. 6 after a
company investigation of the sexual harassment claims determined
that he violated its standards of business conduct, according to
a statement from HP. Palo Alto, California-based HP said it
didn’t find that Hurd had violated its harassment policy.  ‘Your Behavior’  In other correspondence, Fisher told Hurd, “I do not
believe that HP engaged in any inappropriate conduct towards me
in any way,” and, “I do not believe that any of your behavior
was detrimental to HP or in any way injured the company or its
reputation,” according to a Dec. 26 filing.  Hurd is now a co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp .  Hewlett-Packard said last month that Andrew J. Levander, a
partner in Dechert LLP’s New York office, will conduct an
independent probe of Hurd’s departure. The latest investigation
is the next step in a shareholder lawsuit in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , that alleges HP directors wasted company
money by awarding Hurd severance pay.  The Delaware case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The California
case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 Spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 