-- 
Ex-Liverpool Owners Fail to Overturn Order Blocking Lawsuit in America

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-17T18:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/ex-liverpool-owners-hicks-gillett-fail-overturn-order-blocking-u-s-suit.html
Former Liverpool owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  failed to overturn a court order
restraining them from suing for damages in the U.S. over the
forced sale of the soccer team.  Justice  Christopher Floyd  at the High Court in  London  said
while the pair can file lawsuits seeking information in American
courts, they must ask permission from a U.K. judge if they want
to file any damage claims in their own country. Floyd’s October
ruling cleared the way for the owners of the  Boston Red Sox  to
buy the 18-time English champion for 300 million pounds ($484
million).  Floyd said there isn’t a “blanket prohibition on all
conceivable actions, as the owners tend to suggest,” only a
requirement that they ask the U.K. court before they file other
actions abroad. Hicks and Gillett lost about $222 million on the
forced sale.  Hicks and Gillett, who in 2007 bought the team via a 219
million-pound leveraged buyout, have called last year’s sale an
“epic swindle” and claimed the team’s directors and lender  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  conspired against them. The duo
filed a lawsuit in Texas to block the deal and sought $1.6
billion in damages. They later dropped the case when threatened
with a U.K. contempt-of-court charge.  Hicks has said the team was worth as much as 800 million
pounds and  Forbes Magazine  in April estimated its value at 533
million pounds.  Appeal Possible  Hicks and Gillett can appeal today’s ruling. It’s unclear
whether they will.  Floyd also said former club chairman Martin Broughton and
RBS could apply for a permanent declaration that the sale
process was conducted fairly. Hicks and Gillett will have to
file defenses against claim after the judge rejected their
request to stop the action.  At a hearing last week, Richard Snowden, a lawyer
representing RBS, said if Hicks and Gillett want to sue to
recoup money, they should do so in the U.K.  “RBS isn’t seeking to stop Hicks, Gillett or any of their
companies from suing,” Snowden said. “If they want to do so
they are free to, provided they do it in this jurisdiction.”  Liverpool said in a statement today it was “delighted”
with Floyd’s ruling “prohibiting the former owners from
commencing legal actions” outside the European Union.  To contact the reporters on the story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;  Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 