-- 
Fat Lady Wanted as Guide to Fed Rate Setters: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fat-lady-wanted-as-aide-to-fed-rate-setters-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
There’s no canary in the  coal mine 
to keel over, no fat lady to sing, no early warning system to
signal imminent danger.  Yet somehow the  Federal Reserve  will know when the time is
right to exit from what it calls “the current exceptionally
accommodative stance of policy” to something a little less
exceptional?  How, exactly? What will tell policy makers the era of easy
money is over?  The Fed has econometric models that predict growth and
inflation (they’re silent on asset bubbles). It relies on
something called the output gap, or the difference between
actual gross domestic product (hard to compute) and potential
GDP (a moving target), to warn of inflation on the horizon. It
monitors headline and core inflation (lagging indicators). It
pays a lot of attention to inflation expectations as reflected
in the spread between yields on nominal Treasuries and those
indexed to inflation. And it keeps a close eye on wages, which
are the biggest input cost for service-producing industries.  What it lacks is a track record that inspires confidence.
For a group that refuses to acknowledge the key role monetary
policy played in fueling the housing bubble (not to mention the
Internet and tech-stock bubble before it), a group that
advocates regulation, not preemption, as the cure, Fed officials
want us to believe that this time they will get it right.  No one questions that the Fed has the tools it needs to
raise  interest rates  and shrink its $2.5 trillion balance sheet.
It’s as easy to sell Treasuries as buy them if you’re price
insensitive. The issue is one of timing.  Timing Is Everything  With overall and core inflation below the central bank’s 2
percent ceiling, time is one thing the Fed thinks it has plenty
of.  However, the demands of time and space travel argue for a
modicum of prevention and preemption. No one knows what the
“new normal” is for the neutral funds rate: the rate that will
keep the economy growing at its potential in perpetuity. (Not to
worry: No one knew what the old normal was either.) We know it’s
not zero to 0.25 percent, which is where it’s been for more than
two years.  The yield curve, or the spread between the Fed-controlled
short rate and a market-determined long rate, is near its widest
in four decades. The tinder is in place, just waiting for banks
to capitalize on the yield differential.  So, how does the Fed know when it’s time to take the first
baby steps to normalize interest rates? The Fed’s analysis of
inflation is centered on two questionable concepts: inflation
expectations and the output gap. Money rarely merits a mention.  Expected Nonsense  The Fed regards inflation expectations as an independent
variable, capable of producing inflation on their own. In other
words, if we all expect higher prices tomorrow, we will buy more
today and push prices up.  Nonsense, say  Austrian economists . People can’t will prices
higher. If the  money supply  doesn’t increase, the public can’t
increase its expenditures regardless of anticipation of higher
prices in the future. Only the central bank can create
inflation, which it does when it accommodates our increased
spending by passively providing the reserves (printing money)
the banking system demands at any given overnight rate.  The output gap sounds great in theory. An economy can only
produce what it can produce, given a limited supply of land,
labor and capital. If there is more demand for goods and
services than producers can deliver, prices rise to allocate the
supply.  Mind the Gap  Makes perfect sense, right? The problem is, consumers don’t
demand a unit of GDP. We want gasoline for our cars, cotton
towels for our homes, medical care for our families and
accountants for April 15. The macro economy is made up of
thousands of micro-universes. Producers may have a backlog of
widgets but a dearth of drilling machines.  Output gappers like to use the unemployment rate as a proxy
for the degree of slack in the economy. In the last two months,
the civilian  unemployment rate  plummeted from 9.8 percent to 9
percent. While payroll growth, derived from a separate survey of
businesses, was tepid, history suggests such steep falls aren’t
a drop in the bucket.  Large month-to-month declines in the unemployment rate are
rare and “usually signal the start of a very strong upturn in
growth,” says  Joe Carson , director of economic research at
AllianceBernstein in  New York .  Case Studies  That was the case in 1954, 1958, 1961 and 1983, when big
declines in the unemployment rate -- the result of either
workers dropping out of the  labor force  or new hiring -- turned
out to be the start of a trend, he says.  If full employment is the Fed’s goal, as well as its legal
mandate (along with stable prices), policy makers still don’t
know what that is (yes, there’s a new normal for full
employment, too!) or when to start weaning the economy from
ultra-low rates to orchestrate a smooth landing. Much of what
the Fed relies on is the equivalent of shooting in the dark.  It’s this kind of stuff that makes former first lady Nancy Reagan’s reliance on astrology look sound.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  