-- 
FDA Longer Drug Exams Hinder Innovation, Study Finds

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T15:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fda-s-longer-drug-device-exams-hinder-innovation-study-finds.html
The  Food and Drug Administration ’s
longer evaluations of new drugs and medical devices hinders
innovation and undermines U.S. competitiveness, an industry
study found.  The regulatory environment became “troubled to the point
of near crisis” in recent years as FDA product reviews focused
more on risks than potential benefits and required clinical
studies that take more time, the California Healthcare Institute
and the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a report issued today.  “Reversing present regulatory trends is essential to
sustaining the U.S. biomedical industry as a vibrant source of
technology jobs and encouraging future advances to improve
public health,” the report’s authors said.  Companies are pressing for changes as Congress prepares to
overhaul a law next year governing drug and device reviews. The
Republican-led House Energy and Commerce Committee said on its
Web site that a hearing it’s holding today with FDA, industry
and medical officials on the state of the medical-device
industry is focusing on “the impact of regulations on  job
creation  and patient access.”  The rule’s last update, in 2007, increased FDA oversight of
product safety after the agency took years to determine that  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck & Co.’s painkiller
Vioxx and Brentford, U.K.-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s diabetes
pill Avandia had heart risks.  Vioxx was pulled from the U.S. market in 2004; Avandia was
restricted last year.  ‘Not Keeping Pace’  The FDA spent an average of 18.9 months reviewing drug
applications submitted in 2008, 28 percent longer than the
average for the five-year period ending in 2007, according to
the report. The average length of premarket device reviews
jumped 75 percent to 27 months, while the length of expedited
device reviews increased 43 percent to 4.5 months.  “Today’s FDA is not keeping pace with U.S. biomedical
innovation,” David Gollaher, president of the California
Healthcare Institute, said in an introduction to the report. The
process is “strained by unexplained regulatory delays, by a
lack of clear standards for what clinical data are necessary for
product approval, and by a bureaucracy whose communications are
neither consistent nor predictable.”  ‘Consistently Strong’  The institute is a research and advocacy group in  La Jolla 
whose 250 members include  Thousand Oaks , California-based  Amgen
Inc ., the world’s largest biotechnology company.  In testimony prepared for the hearing,  Jeffrey Shuren ,
director of FDA’s device center, said “some have alleged that
delays in FDA approval deprive American patients of needed
therapies and push jobs overseas.” He said the FDA’s “device
review performance has been consistently strong.”  He added that 95 percent of the more than 4,000 device
applications subject to user fees the FDA approves annually are
reviewed within deadlines the agency sets with industry.  The European Union system is different and any comparisons
aren’t fair, particularly because devices in the U.S. must prove
safety and effectiveness, while in the EU they don’t have to
prove effectiveness, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  