-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Says Farmland Boom May Be ‘Unsustainable Bubble’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-17T20:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fed-s-hoenig-says-farmland-value-boom-may-be-unsustainable-bubble-sign.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said soaring farmland prices may be the
result of an unsustainable bubble that could damage the  U.S.
economy  when it bursts.  “My nagging concern remains that current distortions in
financial markets are increasing the risk that imbalances in
asset markets will catch agriculture -- and the U.S. economy
more generally -- by surprise once again,” Hoenig told the
Senate Agriculture Committee today, according to his prepared
testimony.  Hoenig, the lone dissenter from every Fed meeting in 2010,
has warned that the Fed’s near-zero  interest rates  and record
monetary stimulus could lead to “future imbalances and increase
risks to longer-run macroeconomic and financial stability.”  Hoenig spoke after a report today from the Chicago  Federal
Reserve  showed Midwest farmland values rising 12 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier. In Hoenig’s district, the
Kansas City Fed has recorded cropland prices nearly 20 percent
above year-earlier levels in Kansas and  Nebraska , Hoenig said.  “This run-up in farmland values has occurred, however,
amid financial markets characterized by high levels of liquidity
and unusually low interest rates,” he said. “It is nearly
impossible to determine how much of the farmland boom may be an
unsustainable bubble driven by financial markets and how much
results from fundamental changes in demand and supply
conditions.”  Rising Commodities  Farm prices have also been bolstered by rising commodities.
The price of corn has doubled in the past year, to $6.64 a
bushel from $3.33, according to the Department of Agriculture.
The price of wheat has risen 77 percent in the same period.  Fed chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  attributed the rise in crop
prices primarily to growing demand in emerging markets in
remarks at the  National Press Club  in  Washington  on Feb. 3.  “The most important development globally is the fact that
the world economy is growing more quickly, particularly in the
emerging markets,” Bernanke said, when asked why food prices
were rising.  Hoenig said that an increase in borrowing costs could
cause a drop in land prices.  “Rising interest rates often coincide with falling farm
revenues and higher capitalization rates, a depressing
combination for farmland values,” he said.  “Even if crop prices remain high but capitalization rates
return to their historic average, farmland values could fall by
as much as a third.”  Reasons for Optimism  Hoenig noted reasons for optimism because agriculture
“entered this period with a relatively strong balance sheet”
and agricultural banks “are well capitalized.”  The Labor Department reported today that rising food and
fuel prices pushed up the U.S. cost of living more than forecast
in January. The consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent for a
second month, led by the biggest increase in food costs in more
than two years.  “The issue with inflation is that it always is very small
increases,” Hoenig said today in an interview on Fox Business
Network. “It starts slowly, perhaps as we’re seeing now, and
builds over time.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy and Hoenig,
64, will not vote this year. He joined the Kansas City Fed in
1973 as an economist in banking supervision after earning his
doctorate at  Iowa State University . Hoenig became president of
the Kansas City Fed in 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  