-- 
Fisher Reiterates Hesitancy in Backing New Stimulus

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-02-17T20:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fed-s-fisher-reiterates-hesitancy-in-backing-further-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard W. Fisher said central bankers have done
enough to provide liquidity to the  U.S. economy  and that he’s
not inclined to back new efforts to stimulate growth.  “I cannot foresee any circumstances at present that would
lead me to support any further initiatives on that front,” he
said today during a community forum hosted by the bank in
Houston. “The real issue is, ‘How do we put people back to
work?’”  The regional bank president, who votes on monetary policy,
said this week that he’ll be “ahead of the curve” among
officials on the  Federal Open Market Committee  in pushing for
tighter policy as needed. He reiterated his view today that one
possible first step may be selling some of the central bank’s
Treasury securities, along with adjusting the interest rate paid
on bank reserves from a current level of 25 basis points.  Data released today show U.S. consumer prices and initial
jobless claims rising. The cost of living climbed more than
forecast in January, led by higher prices for food and fuel that
may be starting to filter through to other goods and services,
according to Labor Department figures. More Americans than
projected filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance 
last week, signaling that an improvement in the labor market
will take time to develop.  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to a 32-month high, as improving corporate earnings and
manufacturing data overshadowed higher-than-forecast growth in
consumer prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.3
percent to 1,340.36 at 3:10 p.m. in New York trading.  Stimulus Still Needed  Fisher’s comments contrast with those made today by Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans , who said monetary stimulus is still
needed to spur the “disappointing” pace of the economic
recovery.  The Dallas Fed president said the U.S. has “lots of
liquidity in the tank” and the question now is “how does this
get put to work?”  “The Fed has done its job,” said Fisher, 61, who has led
the Dallas Fed since 2005. “It’s now up to fiscal authorities
to make it work.”  Minutes of the FOMC’s Jan. 25-26 meeting show policy makers
held a more optimistic view of the U.S. economy last month,
while continuing to be dissatisfied with job growth, as they
pressed forward with an expansion of record monetary stimulus.  Raised Projections  Fed officials raised projections for economic growth this
year and made little change to forecasts after 2011 or for
unemployment and inflation. U.S. inflation-adjusted gross
domestic product will rise 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent, compared
with November forecasts of 3 percent to 3.6 percent, the central
bankers projected. The jobless rate will average 8.8 percent to
9 percent in the fourth quarter, officials indicated, down from
November forecasts of 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent.  The Fed’s preferred price index, which excludes food and
energy costs, is projected by policy makers to rise 1 percent to
1.3 percent in 2011 and 1 percent to 1.5 percent in 2012. That
compares with November’s estimates for core inflation of 0.9
percent to 1.6 percent this year and 1 percent to 1.6 percent in
2012.  Fed policy makers were divided over whether further
evidence of a strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or
reducing the $600 billion of Treasury purchases, as “a few
members noted that additional data pointing to a sufficiently
strong recovery could make it appropriate to consider reducing
the pace or overall size of the purchase program,” according to
the minutes.  Voting Member  The last time Fisher was a voting member of the FOMC in
2008, he dissented five times in favor of tighter policy.  During his speech today, Fisher blamed both Democrats and
Republicans for creating a fiscal “sinkhole,” or an addiction
to debt and spending, and said he is “delighted” by efforts in
Congress to address it.  Fisher has spoken about the dangers of the federal
government’s long-term fiscal situation since 2008, when he
called untethered government debt “a frightful storm brewing”
that has the potential to be “unimaginably” devastating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in Houston at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  