-- 
Congress May Slow ‘Swipe’ Cap Amid Regulator Concerns

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-02-17T22:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fed-s-raskin-says-governors-reserving-judgment-on-swipe-fees.html
A proposed cap on debit-card ‘swipe’
fees scheduled to take effect in July may be delayed or revised
amid questions about its impact raised by the financial
industry, regulators and lawmakers.    Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , who testified at two congressional hearings today,
aired concerns that could slow down the schedule for
implementing the new rules.  The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July requires the Fed to
establish the cap on so-called interchange fees charged to
merchants. The central bank proposed in December to set the
limit at 12 cents per transaction, setting off a lobbying battle
between retailers who favor the rule and lenders including  Bank
of America Corp . who stand to lose more than $12 billion in
annual revenue if the proposal as written becomes final.  Republican and Democratic lawmakers criticized the law and
the Fed’s proposal. “A delay of the implementation of this rule
is definitely in order,” said Representative David Scott, a
Democrat from  Georgia .  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee the Fed was
“not certain” about an exemption in the law for institutions
with less than $10 billion in assets, echoing the comments of
some smaller lenders that the carve-out would have the
unintended consequence of making them less competitive.  ‘Congress’s Call’  Bair told the Senate committee that the rulemaking by the
Fed wasn’t “as thorough as it might have been.” Asked after
the hearing whether she was suggesting a delay, she said, “I
think that’s Congress’s call. But I do think there are some
policy issues that could be thought through a little bit more
before this thing gets implemented.”  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat who drafted
the provision and the exemption for smaller banks, said Bernanke
“echoed the financial industry’s talking points and failed to
acknowledge several critical realities.”  “For the sake of Main Street American consumers and
businesses, we need the Federal Reserve to understand and
address the non-competitive practices of our largest financial
institutions,” Durbin wrote in a letter to Bernanke after the
hearing.  Durbin, the second-ranked Democrat in the Senate, has said
he will fight to block any legislative changes to the provision.  Market Changes  Raskin, in remarks prepared for the House Financial
Services Committee hearing, said the law and the resulting
regulations “may result in significant market changes.”  The Fed doesn’t have the power to delay the proposal
itself, Raskin told lawmakers. The central bank would
“definitively defer to Congress” if a law were passed
requiring it to delay or take another route on the rulemaking.  She said that given “the novelty and unusual complexity”
of the matter, the Fed governors “are reserving judgment on the
terms of the final rule until we have the opportunity to
benefit” from all public comments the Fed is receiving.  Trade groups representing retailers including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc . and  Target Corp . are pushing for the Fed to keep the
proposal unchanged, saying the reduction in fees will give them
freedom to reduce costs for shoppers.  Consumer Benefit  “There is no doubt that competitive market forces will
allow consumers to directly benefit from this reduction in debit
card rates,” David Seltzer, vice president and treasurer of 7-
Eleven Inc. said in testimony prepared for the House hearing.  Still, lawmakers said they were uncertain of the benefits.
“I don’t receive any complaints in my district from people who
are complaining that their debit card fees are too high,” said
Representative Kenny Marchant, a Texas Republican. He said the
Fed needed to “take more time” and consider the impact the
rule may have on smaller lenders.  Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat, also
voiced reservations.  “I haven’t been able to see how we assure that the
ultimate beneficiary that we are advocating for, consumers,
really get the benefit from this,” Watt said.  Shares of  Visa Inc . and  MasterCard Inc ., which set the fees
and pass the money to card-issuing banks, tumbled more than 10
percent after the Fed’s plan was released Dec. 16, amid investor
concern that the caps will damage their business model.  Comment Period  The comment period for the  Fed proposal  ends next week.
Under Dodd-Frank, the central bank is required to complete work
by April 21 on the cap provision, which would go into effect by
July 21.  Changing the exemption for smaller lenders would require
congressional action, which may delay the rules. Both Bernanke
and Raskin told lawmakers the exemption may not work as
intended.  “We are not certain how effective that exemption will
be,” Bernanke said at the hearing. “It is possible that
because merchants will reject more expensive cards from smaller
institutions or because networks will not be willing to
differentiate the interchange fee for issuers of different
sizes, it is possible that the exemption will not be effective
in the marketplace.”  Raskin also told lawmakers that there were “legitimate
questions” about the exemption.  Durbin, the Illinois Democrat, has vowed to push back
against any changes in the law or the Fed’s proposal. He has
criticized  Washington  trade groups such as the  Independent
Community Bankers of America  and the  Credit Union National
Association  for making points similar to Bernanke’s, saying they
were trying to scare their members.  Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat who proposed
interchange legislation in the House last year, said the calls
for delay were a result of the banking industry lobbying efforts
-- and that the power of the retail industry would help protect
the proposal.  “We have to defend what we achieved, and we will,” Welch
said in an interview. “The bottom line is that there are
millions of merchants throughout this country that are relieved
that they are finally going to be treated fairly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  