-- 
Fed Tells Banks to Stress-Test Capital for Recession With 11% Unemployment

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-17T19:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fed-tells-banks-to-stress-test-capital-for-recession-with-11-unemployment.html
The  Federal Reserve  ordered the 19
largest U.S. banks to test their capital levels against a
scenario of renewed recession with unemployment rising above 11
percent, said two people with knowledge of the review.  The banks stress-tested the performance of their loans,
securities, earnings, and capital against at least three
possible economic outcomes as part of a broader capital-planning
exercise. The banks, including some seeking to increase
dividends cut during the financial crisis, submitted their plans
last month. The Fed will finish its review in March.  “They’re essentially saying, ‘Before you start returning
capital to shareholders, let’s make sure banks’ capital bases
are strong enough to withstand a double-dip scenario,’ ” said
Jonathan Hatcher, a credit strategist specializing in banks at
New York-based Jefferies Group Inc. Regulators don’t want to see
banks “come crawling back for help later,” he said.  Executives at banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in New
York and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc . in Pittsburgh have
asked regulators for permission to increase dividends. The Fed
has told banks that it expects dividends and share buybacks to
be “conservative” and allow for “significant accretion of
capital,” according to a November notice. Some capital payout
plans may be rejected as “inappropriate,” the notice said.  ‘Rigorous’ Analysis  The review “allows our supervisors to compare the progress
made by each firm in developing a rigorous internal analysis of
its capital needs, with its own idiosyncratic characteristics
and risks, as well as to see how the firms would fare under a
standardized adverse scenario developed by our economists,” Fed
Governor Daniel Tarullo said in an e-mail.  The Fed also wants banks to consider how the Dodd-Frank Act
overhauling financial oversight might affect earnings, and how
they will meet stricter international capital guidelines,
according to the November notice. Banks will also have to
consider how many faulty mortgages investors may ask them to
take back into their portfolios. Standard & Poor’s Corp.
estimates mortgage buybacks could cost the industry as much as
$60 billion.  The Fed’s adverse economic scenario included a 1.5 percent
decline in gross domestic product from the fourth quarter of
last year through the end of 2011, said the people, who declined
to be named because the Fed hasn’t made the details of the
review public. The scenario assumed growth resumes, with output
rising 4 percent over the fourth-quarter 2010 level by the end
of 2013. Unemployment would peak at more than 11 percent by the
first quarter of 2012 and drop back to 9.5 percent by the end of
2013.  Federal Reserve spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  declined to
comment on the specifics of the Fed’s parameters.  Growth Forecast  While Fed policy makers want banks to be prepared for a
slump, they aren’t predicting one. In January, members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  forecast growth of 3.4 percent or
more annually over the next three years, with the jobless rate
falling to 6.8 percent to 7.2 percent in the fourth quarter of
2013. Unemployment averaged 9.6 percent in the final three
months of 2010.  As part of the most recent capital exam, regulators have
made one of the largest data requests in Fed history, outside of
normal regulatory reporting, asking banks for information about
their securities, loans and other holdings. This will give the
Fed the ability to check and even challenge the assumptions
banks make about their portfolios.  Financial-Risk Unit  The tests are being overseen by a new financial-risk unit
assembled by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Tarullo. Known as the
Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee, or LISCC,
the unit draws on the Fed’s deep bench of economists,
quantitative researchers, regulatory experts and forecasters and
looks at risks across the financial system. The LISCC last year
helped Bernanke respond to an emerging liquidity crisis faced by
European banks.  “The current review of firms’ capital plans is another
step forward in our approach to supervision of the largest
banking organizations,” Tarullo said. “It has also served as
an occasion for discussion in the LISCC of the overall state of
the industry and key issues faced by banking organizations.”  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Financials Index is up 7.5
percent this year, compared with a 6.3 percent gain for the
broader  S&P 500 Index , as firms such as BB&T Corp. in Winston-
Salem,  North Carolina , and U.S. Bancorp in  Minneapolis  announced
profit gains.  Dividend Plans  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told analysts last month that he expects to “modestly
increase” dividends in the second half of this year.  “We’d love to raise the dividend,” James Rohr, chief
executive officer of PNC, said in a Jan. 20 conference call.
“We’re hopeful of hearing back in March from the regulators.”  JPMorgan Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein told
investors Feb. 15 that the bank asked regulators on Jan. 7 for
permission to raise the dividend to 30 percent of normalized
earnings over time.  Braunstein’s presentation showed that JPMorgan’s own stress
scenario was more severe than the Fed’s, with U.S. gross
domestic product declining more than 4 percent through the third
quarter of this year. Unemployment peaks at 11.7 percent.  Other banks that may raise dividends early this year
include Bank of New York Mellon Corp., San Francisco-based  Wells
Fargo & Co ., U.S. Bancorp and BB&T, according to research by
Portales Partners in  New York .  100 Fed Staff  The dividend increases, if they happen, will be one of the
most carefully screened payouts in U.S. regulatory history, with
more than 100 Fed staff working on the capital analysis of the
banks.  The Fed has learned “the importance of being very
aggressive” and “not being willing to allow banks too much
leeway, particularly when they are inadequate in areas like risk
management,” Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee at a
hearing today.  Congress is watching. The Fed should be cautious about
allowing banks to reduce their capital through dividends or
stock repurchases, House Democrats, including Representative
Brad Miller of North Carolina, said in a Feb. 15 letter to
Bernanke.  “We applaud your undertaking new stress tests on the
banks,” the lawmakers said. “It appears doubtful, however,
that the stress tests alone can resolve the uncertainty facing
those banks to justify reducing their capital.”    Corporate Governance   The Fed’s involvement in decisions normally reserved for
boards shows how far the Dodd-Frank Act has pushed regulators
into corporate governance.  “It is an uneasy balance between regulating an institution
and running it,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics in  Washington , a research firm whose
clients include the nations’ biggest banks. The Fed is moving
“far more assertively” on bank oversight, she said.  As with the 2009 stress tests conducted by the Fed during
the crisis, one of the goals is to assure that bank capital can
support new loans to creditworthy borrowers. Loans and leases of
banks in the U.S. contracted at a 10.3 percent annual rate in
2009, a 6.2 percent rate in 2010, and at a 2.6 percent rate in
January.  The Fed’s unprecedented exam of the 19 largest lenders in
May 2009 concluded that 10 U.S. banks needed to raise an
additional $74.6 billion in capital.  ‘Destroying’ Value  Banks were “destroying” value when they repurchased
billions of dollars of stock in the years leading up to 2008,
only to issue shares later at lower prices after they needed
capital amid the crisis, said Jefferies Group’s Hatcher, a
former bank examiner for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  “Whether it is liquidity, capital or earnings, banks are
on a much better footing than they were a couple of years ago,”
said R. Scott Siefers, managing director at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, a brokerage and research firm
specializing in financial companies. “Still, you can pick your
caveat. We are only in the early stages of an earnings recovery
on the lending side and the legislative and regulatory framework
is still in flux.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  