-- 
Fed's Evans Says `Disappointing' Recovery Warrants Current Stimulus Steps

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-02-17T20:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fed-s-evans-says-disappointing-recovery-warrants-more-stimulus-measures.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said monetary stimulus is still needed
to spur the “disappointing” pace of the economic recovery.  “With unemployment too high and inflation too low -- and
both forecasted to stay that way over the next two years -- we
have missed on both of our policy objectives,” Evans said in a
speech in Rockford,  Illinois , today. “There is currently no
policy conflict between improving the employment and inflation
outcomes. This leads me to conclude that accommodative monetary
policy continues to be beneficial for achieving each of these
goals.”  The Fed is divided over whether further evidence of a
strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing its
plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June, according
to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan. 25-26
meeting, which were released yesterday. Evans has publicly
supported the Fed’s so-called quantitative easing program.  Policy makers raised forecasts for economic growth this
year, with central bankers projecting U.S. inflation-adjusted
gross domestic product will rise 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent, the
minutes showed. Forecasts increased from November predictions of
3 percent to 3.6 percent as household spending picked up and
recent economic data showed a “stronger tenor.”  “Let’s not congratulate ourselves just yet: even 4 percent
is only moderately higher than the growth rate of potential
output and thus represents a relatively muted recovery given the
severity of the recession,” said Evans, who votes this year on
the policy-setting FOMC. “In addition, this growth forecast is
not strong enough to reduce unemployment very rapidly within a
reasonable timeframe.”  Bernanke, Unemployment  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony before the
House budget panel last week that the  unemployment rate  is
likely to remain high “for some time” even after its biggest
two-month drop since 1958, to 9 percent in January. Joblessness
rose above 9 percent in May 2009, beginning the longest period
of unemployment at that level or higher since monthly records
began in 1948.  “To date, job growth has been disappointing,” Evans said.
“We still have a long road ahead before we return to full
utilization of the economy’s productive capacity and meet this
piece of our policy goals.”  The central bank is also failing to meet its goal of  price
stability , which is “costly” as consumers took on debt with an
inflation rate of about 2 percent in mind, Evans said.
“Unexpectedly low” inflation also lowers revenue for
businesses, increasing the real cost of labor and making
companies less likely to hire, he said.  ‘Encouraging’  Evans said it’s “encouraging” that economic data has
recently been “coming in stronger.” The improvement in
financial-market conditions will also “provide additional
support to consumer and business spending and investment,” he
said.  “Tempering these positive developments are the continued
weakness in the housing market, state and local budgetary
concerns and still somewhat restrictive credit terms for some
borrowers,” Evans said.  Talking to reporters after the speech, Evans said that he
is “open-minded about the size of our current program” of
buying $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  “We’re going to evaluate that, as our statement has said,
at each meeting. I think it’s quite likely if we continue with
the 600 it will not surprise me if at the time we get to June
and we’re looking at the economy, that things are sufficiently
better, that might be enough,” Evans said. “I think it’s
likely we’ll do the $600 billion. I’m open minded and it will
take a change in the economic outlook to change that.”  The FOMC next meets in  Washington  on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  