-- 
FIFA, UEFA Lose EU Court Bid Over Exclusive Pay-TV Rights to Major Games

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-02-17T16:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/fifa-uefa-lose-eu-court-bid-over-exclusive-pay-tv-rights-to-major-games.html
Soccer fans may be able to continue
watching  World Cup  and European Championship matches for free
after a European Union court ruled governing bodies can’t strike
exclusive pay-TV deals for the games in the U.K. and Belgium.  FIFA and UEFA, the game’s global and European governing
bodies, lost court appeals today against EU decisions allowing
nations to make the soccer tournaments available to anyone with
access to a TV set.  Restrictions are “justified” to “ensure wide public
access to television broadcasts,” the  EU General Court , the 27-
nation region’s second-highest tribunal, ruled today. Recent
statistics show that the system in Belgium and the U.K. to show
the World Cup for free drew many viewers, “a significant
proportion of whom are not usually interested in football.”  A ruling in FIFA’s favor could have ended decades of
tradition in the U.K., where the World Cup, the most-watched
sporting event, must be broadcast on free-to-air television.
Today’s decision echoes a non-binding opinion by an adviser to
the EU’s top court earlier this month in a case involving the
Premier League and exclusive broadcasting agreements.    UEFA  said in a statement it was “disappointed” by the
ruling and “will now study the decision in detail in order to
decide on next steps.” FIFA said in an e-mail it won’t comment
on the decision.  ‘Bad Day’  “There’s no doubt that it’s a bad day for the rights
holders,” said Daniel Geey, a competition lawyer specializing
in sports law in the London office of law firm Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP. A ruling supporting UEFA and FIFA would have
allowed them “to commercialize their broadcasting revenues to a
larger degree” and “sell at least some of the non-prime
matches” to pay TV broadcasters, he said.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, in 2007
allowed the U.K. to earmark all World Cup games and the final
tournament of UEFA’s European Football Championship for free-to-
air television broadcast. That and the approval of a similar
decision by  Belgium  to limit World Cup games only to free
television, breach the associations’ property rights, FIFA and
UEFA argued at the Luxembourg-based EU court.    Jonathan Todd , a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, said the ruling “implies that” similar lists in
other member states “are also fully compatible” with EU law.  Other countries  that have drawn up such lists of sporting
events considered of “major importance” for their citizens
include Austria, France, Finland and  Italy .  ‘Resonance’  In its 2007  decision  concerning the U.K. list, the
commission said events such as the World Cup and European
Championship Finals “have a special general resonance in the
U.K. in their entirety, as they are particularly popular with
the general public,” not just those who regularly watch.  The U.K. Department for Culture, Media and Sport said it
welcomed the decision “to support the principle of protecting
major sports events for free-to-air coverage.”  Today’s ruling can be appealed a final time to the EU’s top
court, though only on points of law.  “This ruling in effect allows member states to list the
full World Cup and European Championships which has the result
of terrestrial television broadcasters effectively being the
only ones that can tender for the broadcasts,” Geey said.  The cases are T-385/07 FIFA v Commission; T-55/08 UEFA v
Commission; T-68/08 FIFA v Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  