-- 
Forint, Zloty Gain to Week-High, Shares Rise on Growth, Budget

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-02-17T10:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/forint-zloty-gain-to-week-high-shares-rise-on-growth-outlook.html
The forint and zloty advanced to the
highest in a week as the  Federal Reserve  spurred confidence in
the global economic recovery by increasing its U.S. growth
forecast and Poland pledged to improve public finances.  The Hungarian currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 269.64
per euro as of 11:00 a.m. in Budapest, the strongest since Feb.
9. The BUX index of Hungarian shares rose 0.3 percent to
22,600.24. Poland’s zloty gained 0.2 percent to 3.9084 per euro,
after earlier strengthening as much as 0.5 percent.  “The Fed is talking about improving economic prospects, so
markets are happy,” analysts at Erste Group Bank AG including
Jozsef Miro in Budapest wrote in a note to clients today.  Federal Reserve policy makers judged the recovery to be on
a “firmer footing,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in
minutes of its Jan. 25-26 meeting, released yesterday in  Washington . Policy makers raised projections for economic growth
this year and made little change to forecasts after 2011 or for
unemployment and inflation.  The Fed minutes were “about as favorable as possible for
stock markets,” Akos Herczenik and Levente Blaho, analysts with
Raiffeisen Bank in Budapest, wrote in a note today.  Poland has “a chance” to trim its  budget deficit  to the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by
the end of 2012 as demanded, Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  was quoted today as saying by PAP newswire.  Kotecki’s comments on the deficit “strengthened the zloty,
and so indirectly the forint too,” analysts at Commerzbank AG
including Peter Karsai in Budapest wrote in a note today.  ‘Surprising’ Deficits  Poland is capable of cutting its budget shortfall to 3
percent by 2012 and will submit plans to the European Union to
do so this week, Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said yesterday after meeting Polish officials in Warsaw.  Hungary’s local governments had “surprising” deficits in
the fourth quarter of last year, the  Economy Ministry  said in an
e-mail on Feb. 15. The shortfall was 247.7 billion forint ($1.2
billion) compared with the ministry’s estimate of 190 billion
forint when calculating the total 2010 budget deficit of 3.8
percent of gross domestic product, the ministry said.  Hungary’s general government net borrowing was equal to 4.7
percent of gross domestic product in 2010, the central bank said
on its website yesterday, citing preliminary data.  Emerging “question marks” about Hungary’s budget deficit
“cast doubt” over further forint gains, Zoltan Arokszallasi,
an economist at Erste wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  