-- 
Four External Members to Bank of England Committee to Be Named

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-17T00:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/four-external-members-to-bank-of-england-committee-to-be-named.html
Four external members of the  Bank of
England ’s Financial Policy Committee, the body that will be
given power to monitor risk in the financial system, will be
named by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  today.  The experts on financial stability will join seven bank
executives including governor  Mervyn King  on the panel that will
eventually vote on measures the authorities need to take to
contain risk, an official at the Treasury said. The Financial
Stability Committee will have an advisory role until laws are
passed in late 2012 to formalize its powers.  The panel will aim to identify and monitor risk, check
resilience of the system and monitor unsustainable levels of
leverage, said the official, who can’t be named in line with
normal government practice. The committee will also keep an eye
on credit growth and debt, the official added.  The change is part of a broader overhaul of Britain’s
regulatory system in which Osborne will abolish the financial
watchdog and hand most of its powers to the central bank.
Treasury minister Mark Hoban will publish proposals for the how
to change the system alongside Osborne’s personnel announcement.  Hoban will seek the views of the financial industry on the
establishment of the Financial Conduct Authority, a body that
will seek to protect consumers and police the integrity of
markets, the official said.  Insurers, Investment  The government consultation will also seek views on the
Prudential Regulation Authority, the body that will be
responsible for regulating all deposit-taking institutions,
insurers and investment banks. Its board will be chaired by
King, while the current head of the Financial Services
Authority,  Hector Sants , will run its operations and become a
deputy governor for prudential regulation at the bank.  The almost three-year period taken to enact the legislation
suggests King may not get the chance to formally exercise the
powers. The legislation to be introduced later this year isn’t
due to take effect until 2013 as King’s second five-year term as
governor expires.  King and Osborne began working in June, a month after the
coalition government took office, on the overhaul of financial
regulation that would give the Bank of England more power than
it has ever had in its 317-year history.  In the May 2010 coalition agreement, the Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats listed banking as their top priority after the
budget and taxes, saying the existing regulatory system is
“fundamentally flawed and needs to be replaced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  