-- 
G-20 Ministers Squabble Over Steps to Diagnose Global Economic Imbalances

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-17T10:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/g-20-ministers-squabble-over-measures-to-diagnose-imbalances.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs remain
divided over the next steps to narrow global economic imbalances
as they squabble over how to reach a diagnosis.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , who is hosting a
meeting starting tomorrow in Paris of G-20 central bankers and
her counterparts, said she’s hoping for an accord on which
indicators should be used to analyze imbalances that economists
blame in part for the financial crisis.  While there’s broad agreement to use the current account as
a key measure, some countries are opposed, said a Canadian
official who briefed reporters yesterday in Ottawa. Even if they
reach consensus on a set of indicators, the ministers probably
won’t agree on numerical targets for monitoring trade
imbalances. A deal is unlikely this week on specific guidelines,
a U.S. Treasury official told reporters in Washington Feb. 15.  “The G-20 is not about breakthroughs,”  Angel Gurria ,
secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development told Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua
today. “The G-20 is about coordination and a gradual
convergence. It’s about diagnosis, measuring comparing and then
proposing public policies.”  As the crisis that forged the G-20’s role in 2009 fades,
global leaders’ efforts to coordinate policies are increasingly
stumbling over their differences.  China  will probably face
renewed pressure to allow its currency to appreciate, a German
aide said. One approach under discussion is to add the yuan to
the International Monetary Fund’s special-drawing-rights basket,
the Canadian official said.  Food Prices  Ministers may also express concern at commodity-price
inflation that has sent global food prices soaring.  A meeting of G-20 leaders in  South Korea  in November was
marked by clashes over whether Chinese or U.S. policies were
more to blame for global trade imbalances. China has rejected
policy prescriptions that fault its exchange-rate regime.  G-20 leaders agreed last year to find a set of “indicative
guidelines” designed to identify large imbalances and seek
actions needed to fix them.  “We have a China that saves and exports, a  Europe  that
consumes and grows slowly and a U.S. that consumes and
borrows,” Lagarde said in a speech today in Paris. “We have to
consider whether we can carry on like that.”  Trade and current-account balances, as well as growth
differentials and foreign-exchange reserve accumulation, are
among indicators  France  has proposed for discussion to narrow
imbalances, she has said.  ‘Blindingly Obvious’  “They’ll do what is blindingly obvious” and agree to use
current-account indicators, said John Kirton, a professor at the  University of Toronto , who monitors the G-20.  Policy makers are trying to avoid a repeat of the last
expansion when U.S. consumers relied on borrowing from abroad to
finance their purchases, contributing to an export boom from  Asia . As China and other Asian nations accumulated dollars from
trade surpluses, they bought U.S. Treasury debt and depressed
global yields. Lower borrowing costs helped stoke the U.S.
housing and credit booms that later turned to bust.  China, the world’s largest exporter of goods, had a trade
surplus of $183 billion in 2010. That represented a narrowing
for a second year after a record $295 billion surplus in 2008,
customs data show.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in October
that a ratio for current-account surpluses or deficits of 4
percent of gross domestic product could be seen as a benchmark
for G-20 countries. China and  Germany , the world’s two biggest
exporters, rejected any move to set a target for current-account
imbalances as a percentage of GDP.  Working Groups  The G-20 meeting will also set up working groups on capital
flows and on commodity prices, the German official told
reporters yesterday. The challenge is to find ways of avoiding
excessive capital inflows into emerging nations such as  Turkey 
without limiting the free flow of capital, the official said.
One solution may be to strengthen bond markets in local
currencies, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  