-- 
G-20 Stung by Faster Inflation as Dispute Rages on Imbalances

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-18T11:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/g-20-stung-by-faster-inflation-as-paris-dispute-rages-on-global-imbalances.html
Group of 20 policy makers, at odds
over smoothing over global economic imbalances, confront a new
threat as higher inflation ripples from emerging markets to
advanced economies.  A report of greater-than-expected U.S. inflation yesterday
followed a jump in the European cost-of-living index to a two-
year high and a pickup in Chinese prices, further fraying a
tentative global consensus over how to sustain the recovery.  Rising consumer prices, a byproduct of the recovery from
the worst recession since World War II as commodity costs surge,
have put higher  interest rates  back on the agenda as the rich
world grapples with a debt overhang and developing countries try
to escape the boom-bust syndrome.  “Clearly, if interest rates are raised too quickly it can
hamper growth and it would be very detrimental for the objective
that we pursue,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde ,
host of today’s G-20 meeting in Paris, told Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua.  “Growth is the objective that we
pursue.”  China’s central bank today raised reserve requirements half
a percentage point for lenders, the second increase this year to
counter inflation and curb property-price gains. Policy makers
may also use means “including rates and currency” to tackle
inflation, Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in an
interview in Paris after the reserve-ratio announcement.  Accelerating Inflation  In  China , inflation accelerated to a 4.9 percent annual
pace in January, exceeding the government’s 2011 target for a
fourth month. U.S. year-on-year inflation reached 1.6 percent in
January, the highest since May, figures showed yesterday. The
euro area’s January rate of 2.4 percent was the fastest since
October 2008, skidding past the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent target ceiling.  Higher inflation in the industrialized world has driven up
central bank interest rates in Canada, and momentum built this
week for the  Bank of England  to follow suit after the central
bank forecast inflation will quicken from a two-year high and
peak at about 4.4 percent.  Among the G-20’s up-and-coming powers, China, Brazil,  India ,  Indonesia  and South Korea have raised borrowing costs
this year, while rates have declined in  Turkey .  BRIC Swaps  Underscoring rising prices in the fastest-growing
economies, the average cost of credit-default swaps tied to the
debt of so-called BRIC nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and
China -- is about 47 basis points more than those of the Group
of Seven, near a four-month high, according to data provider
CMA. That’s up from a record low 18 basis points Jan. 5.  With China, the emerging world’s dynamo, four months into a
rate-rise cycle to put a lid on surging inflation, the specter
of higher prices casts a political as well as an economic shadow
over the two-year-old global upturn.  A burst in food prices was behind the democratic uprising
in  Tunisia , spilling over to  Egypt  and neighboring Arab
countries with the potential to remake the balance of power in
the Middle East.  Dairy, sugar and grain costs spurred food prices to another
record last month, and the World Bank this week said that climb
has pushed 44 million more people into “extreme” poverty. Oil
prices last month reached the highest level since 2008.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers come to Paris
with diminished ambitions, with French President Nicolas Sarkozy
no longer talking of a relaunch of the global monetary system to
knock the  U.S. dollar  off its perch as he did last year.  ‘Unstable Hybrid’  “We need a system that functions better,” Bank of  Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  said at an Institute of International
Finance conference in Paris yesterday. The current monetary
order “is an increasingly unstable hybrid of fixed and floating  exchange-rate  regimes. It promoted in our opinion the enormous
buildup of debt that preceded the crisis.”  One ingredient would be a greater stake for China’s
currency, the yuan, possibly by making it a component of the
International Monetary Fund’s special drawing rights, once seen
as an alternative reserve asset to the dollar. That system is
next up for review in 2015.  China is facing renewed pressure to push up the yuan, even
though it has allowed the currency to strengthen 3.6 percent
since a two-year dollar peg was scrapped on June 19.  ‘Defeat the Fear’  “China should look into experiences of other countries,”
Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens told Bloomberg
Television in Paris yesterday. “Some Asian economies should
defeat the fear of floating by looking into successful events
for example, like  Chile ,  Mexico ,  Brazil .”  The yuan reached a 17-year high today on speculation
China’s will allow faster appreciation to tackle inflation and
appease trading partners who say the currency is undervalued.  For his part, China’s Zhou said the government didn’t heed
the complaints. “We never really cared about external
pressure,” Zhou told reporters in Paris late yesterday. “We
always focus more on domestic development.”  The yuan remains undervalued, a U.S. official told
reporters in  Washington  this week. Trans-Pacific unease over
currencies underlies the G-20’s November pledge to “move toward
more market-determined exchange rate systems” without singling
out China or setting a timeline.  The aim of the Paris meeting, which starts tonight and ends
tomorrow afternoon, is to edge toward agreement on the use of
economic indicators to monitor the skewed trade and financial
flows that pitched the world into crisis.  U.S. Limits  China and  Germany , the world’s two biggest exporters,
fended off U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner’s call in
October for current-account surpluses or deficits to be capped
at 4 percent of gross domestic product.  European Union officials want the scorecard to include the
current-account balance, public deficit and debt, savings ratio,
net foreign assets, reserve adequacy, real effective exchange
rate and private date, according to an EU position paper.  Closer surveillance comes as the economic recovery in the
U.S. and  Europe  edges the world closer to equilibrium. China’s
trade surplus, for example, narrowed for the second year in
2010, to $183 billion.  “Global imbalances have been falling for some time,”
Morgan Stanley economists Manoj Pradhan and Alan Taylor said in
a Feb. 16 report. “While cyclical factors have clearly played a
role of late, we believe that deeper fundamental drivers are
still the more important factors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Paris at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  