-- 
Galleon Probers Trailed Rajaratnam Through Tips, Tamils and Taps

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/galleon-probers-followed-12-year-rajaratnam-trail-of-tips-tamils-and-taps.html
The  insider-trading  trial of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam next month is the
culmination of U.S. investigations dating back 12 years that
involved blind alleys, anonymous tips, wiretaps and a trip into
the Tamil Tiger underworld before prosecutors got their man.  Rajaratnam, 53, stands accused by Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara of leading an insider-trading conspiracy that
earned his fund about $45 million. He has pleaded not guilty.  Testimony at a four-day hearing in October to consider the
admissibility of wiretaps showed what evidence the U.S. is
likely to rely on at trial, set for March 8, as well as much of
the inside story of how investigators cracked the case.  The government began pursuing the Sri Lankan-born
Rajaratnam as long ago as 1999. Federal prosecutors in  California  and New York, as well the Securities and Exchange
Commission, would eventually carry out what became the largest
insider-trading probe of hedge funds. To date, at least 26
people have been charged; 19 have pleaded guilty.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it considered
placing an undercover agent inside the New York-based Galleon
firm, before opting instead to tap his phones because it had no
viable candidate. The case was woven from other threads,
including a former  Intel Corp . employee’s confessions; a 2006
regulatory probe of his brother Rengan, instant messages from
Rajaratnam; and a March 2007 anonymous letter to the SEC.  “To Whom it May Concern: it is hedge funds like Galleon
Group that create wealth for their shareholders and themselves
at the expense of innocent investors,” according to letter,
which was read during the October hearing in New York.
“‘Insider trading’ word in this fund should be changed to
‘insider partnership and prostitution.’”  2,400 Wiretaps  The case was the first to make significant use of phone
taps to gather evidence of trading on inside information, a
technique more commonly used against organized crime figures.
During a three-year probe, the FBI secretly recorded more than
2,400 conversations. U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , who is
presiding over the case, ruled those recordings admissible at
trial.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam used tips from hedge fund
executives, corporate officials and other insiders to conduct
illegal trades involving 12 companies, including Intel,  International Business Machines Corp ., Akamai Technologies Inc.,  Google Inc .,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .,  EBay Inc .,  Polycom
Inc . and Hilton Hotels Corp.    Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  ‘A Great Resource’  Rajaratnam founded Galleon in 1997 with three other
colleagues from Needham & Co. as a hedge fund firm focusing on
technology and health-care stocks. Galleon had as much as
$7 billion in assets under management and was once among the 10
largest hedge funds in the world.  Rajaratnam attributed his success to demands he placed on
his analysts and a network of 60 to 70 technology executives who
were investors in his fund.  “They are a great resource to bounce ideas off,” he said
in an April 1997  HedgeFundNews.com  interview that was submitted
at the hearing. “If we ask any of them which of their customers
or suppliers are doing well or badly we get four stock ideas.”  “At some point, you stop working for money, you work for
pride,” he said. “We want to win; we want to be the best.”  ‘Super Bowl Parties’  The SEC’s anonymous tipster told a different story, saying
Galleon’s limited partners held positions such as chairman,
chief financial officer and director at large public companies.
These insiders faxed privileged, nonpublic financial and product
data to Galleon managers before public release.  “In return, the fund provides greater returns on their
money,” the tipster said. “This is a great formula, totally at
the expense of poor, common weakly behaving investors.”  Special FBI Agent B.J. Kang, lead investigator in the
government’s insider-trading case, said agents also pursued
reports of other benefits, such as “treating these company
executives to Super Bowl parties as a way to thank them for the
inside information.”  In 1998, Kang said the FBI and prosecutors in Northern
California began investigating Intel employee  Roomy Khan , after
receiving a complaint from the company. The world’s largest
chipmaker had conducted an internal probe and fired Khan in May
1998, Kang said. Intel suspected her of passing information to
Rajaratnam, then a lead semiconductor analyst at Needham, Kang
said. A video camera installed by Intel over a fax machine
captured images of her as well as the number she dialed, which
the FBI identified as Rajaratnam’s.  Khan at Galleon  Khan worked briefly at Galleon’s California office as an
analyst after leaving Intel, Rajaratnam said in court papers.
She was fired in March 1999 “for trading in a personal
brokerage account while working there,”  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s
lawyer, said in court papers.  Years later, information Khan provided to the U.S. formed
part of the basis for obtaining the court-authorized wiretaps
that are the centerpiece of the case against Rajaratnam.  By April 1999, the California investigation broadened to
include Rajaratnam, Kang said. Khan met repeatedly with the SEC,
prosecutors and U.S. investigators over the next 17 months.  Khan pleaded guilty in April 2001 to wire fraud. As part of
a cooperation agreement with the U.S., she was sentenced on July
1, 2002, to six months’ home detention, fined $30,000 and
ordered to pay $120,000 in restitution, court records show.  “All I can say is I’m extremely sorry about this,” Khan
told U.S. District Judge James Ware in federal court in  San
Jose , California. “I’ve never been involved in anything
criminal, and I’m really sorry.”  No Charges  No charges were filed against Rajaratnam in California.
Prosecutors closed that case in August 2002, Kang said.  “Mr. Rajaratnam could not be tied to illegal insider
trading,” the government’s sentencing memo for Khan stated.
“He did not provide any monetary payment for the information
Khan allegedly provided him,” prosecutors said.  Dowd, Rajaratnam’s lawyer, has argued no action was taken
against his client because the U.S. was “unable to substantiate
any of Khan’s allegations against Mr. Rajaratnam.”  Kang said the decision to close the California probe was
made 11 months after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when
the FBI changed its focus to terrorism. FBI agents assigned to
work on the Intel case had also moved or were reassigned, he
said.  Rajaratnam had also come under the scrutiny of counter-
terrorism investigators about that time, Kang said. The FBI’s
Joint Terrorism Task Force, or JTTF, in  New Jersey ,  New York  and
Connecticut had made inquiries about him as part of an
investigation into the financing of the Sri Lankan terrorist
group called the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, or LTTE.  Terrorism Probe  U.S. prosecutors in Brooklyn, New York, who began a
counter-terrorism investigation in 1998, investigated “possible
ties” Rajaratnam had to the group’s financing, Kang testified.  “Newark JTTF was asking about Mr. Rajaratnam, so I think
that was one of the reasons why they decided to refer the matter
to JTTF,” Kang said of the government’s tabling of the white-
collar crime probe against him.  Rajaratnam was never charged in a terror probe. Dowd said
during the October hearing that his client had met with the FBI
about their investigation. Dowd argued the U.S. had attempted to
“smear” his client.  “He was giving money,” to a fund that helped victims of
the tsunami in  Sri Lanka , Dowd said, “a charity here in the
United States, sanctioned by the Internal Revenue Service,”
Dowd said. “President Bush and President Clinton did the same
thing that Raj did to help his country.”  2003 SEC Subpoenas  The insider-trading case continued with an SEC formal order
of investigation in November 2003 and subpoenas served on
Galleon from 2003 to 2005.  The SEC would obtain more than 4 million pages of business
records and depose more than 20 Galleon employees as part of the
probe, Rajaratnam’s lawyers said. Rajaratnam gave a deposition
to the SEC in 2007, and the agency conducted an on-site review
of Galleon.  Dowd said in court papers that the U.S. pursued its probe
of his client unabated during this period. Prosecutors said that
the SEC subpoenas weren’t related to any regulatory insider-
trading probe.  “None of these investigations was related to the instant
SEC investigation and none resulted in insider trading
charges,” prosecutors said in court papers.  Rajaratnam’s Brother  Andrew Michaelson, one of the principal SEC lawyers
investigating the case, testified that in September 2006 the
agency launched an insider-trading probe of Sedna Capital
Management LLC, a fund operated by Rengan Rajaratnam, a former
Galleon employee.  Michaelson, now a member of the prosecution team, said the
SEC deposed Sedna and Galleon employees, reviewed millions of
pages of documents and reviewed every single e-mail and instant
message of Raj Rajaratnam’s for 2006. Soon regulators had
another target, he said.  “This civil investigation began to focus on possible
insider trading by Rajaratnam at Galleon because Rajaratnam and
Rengan Rajaratnam appeared to be exchanging non-public
information,” prosecutors said.  Rengan Rajaratnam has never been criminally charged.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman
for Bharara’s office, declined to comment.  Rengan Rajaratnam couldn’t be reached for comment. A call
to a number listed in that name in Manhattan was answered by a
man who said: “No he is not here, and this is not his number.”  ‘Seen Press Release’  The SEC found instant electronic messages between Raj
Rajaratnam and Khan, showing that the two communicated about
Polycom, Intel,  Broadcom Corp . and other companies, Michaelson
said. The agency also found discussions, such as an April 21,
2006, exchange between Rajaratnam and Quint Slattery, who
managed a hedge fund in which Rajaratnam had invested,
prosecutors said. The two discussed CA Inc., the second-largest
maker of software for mainframe computers.  “What about our CA, you staying short?” Slattery asked
Rajaratnam, according to the message the FBI said it obtained.  “My guy has seen press release, yes,” Rajaratnam
answered.  ‘Careful on IM’  “Obviously I know you are kidding about that,” Slattery
replied, adding, “I am careful on IM,” a reference to instant
messages.  “Oh, s--t,” Rajaratnam wrote, then added, “Press release
about the Yankees releasing Derek Jeter.”  While they determined Galleon traded in CA during this time
period, Kang said neither agents nor the SEC had been able to
pinpoint who Rajaratnam’s CA source was.  Slattery, who isn’t accused of wrongdoing, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment after regular business hours yesterday.  While the SEC was investigating possible insider trading by
Rajaratnam on 28 different stocks, there wasn’t enough either to
make a civil fraud case or to bring criminal charges, regulators
testified. “Our testimony hadn’t gotten anywhere,” Michaelson
said. “We kept pushing, trying to get these boulders to the top
of the hill.”    Manhattan  federal prosecutors and the New York FBI launched
a criminal probe in March 2007. Kang said he approached Khan in
late 2007, and she agreed to become a U.S. cooperator.  ‘Classic’ Probe  Lauren Goldberg, a former assistant Manhattan U.S.
attorney, said her office conducted a “classic insider-trading
probe,” for more than a year, and then the investigation
stalled. An exhaustive review of phone and trading records
failed to capture explicit evidence that would sustain a
criminal case, she said.  “We realized we had hit a bit of a wall,” said Goldberg,
who is now an attorney with McAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.  The evidence showed that Rajaratnam exchanged instant
messages regarding a stock and then would request a follow-up
phone call, Kang said.  “What did that suggest to you about what you were going to
need to do in order to find out the content of material
nonpublic information that was being passed?” Assistant
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter asked.  “You needed the wiretap,” Kang said.  On March 7, 2008, prosecutors asked a federal judge to
approve their application for a wiretap on Rajaratnam’s phones.
Once the wiretap was approved, the U.S. began building a
criminal case against him. His lawyers said in court papers that
the U.S. made “18,000 audio recordings” as part of the
insider-trading investigations. Prosecutors said they might play
more than 170 conversations at trial.  Insular World  The U.S. even considered sending an undercover FBI agent
into Galleon’s offices, Kang said. Investigators feared that if
they approached a co-conspirator, that person might inform
others. He said the bureau learned the hedge fund world was also
an insular place.  Galleon employees “have MBAs from Harvard, with extensive
background in finance and business,” Kang said. “So you have
to have a very good pedigree, background, similar to the
analysts and people that Galleon hired.”  Asked if the FBI had such a candidate for the undercover
job, Kang replied, “No.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 