-- 
Gasoline Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-02-17T16:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/gasoline-stockpiles-rise-in-europe-s-oil-trading-hub-update1-.html
Gasoline stockpiles in independent
storage in  Europe ’s oil-trading hub rose to the highest in more
than four months, according to an industry consultant based in
the Netherlands.  Gasoline inventories in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
area increased 11 percent to 907,000 metric tons in the week to
today, according to PJK International BV. That’s the highest
level since Sept. 30.  More gasoline is being moved into storage ahead of summer
demand, Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK, said today in a telephone
interview from Oosterhout, where the company is based. Cargoes
arrived from  Belgium , Denmark,  France ,  Russia , Sweden, and the
U.K. while the motor fuel was sent to  Argentina ,  Nigeria  and the
U.S., PJK data showed.  Inventories of gasoil, which includes heating oil and
diesel, declined 0.8 percent to 2.655 million tons as cargoes
moved to the U.K., according to PJK. Volumes arrived from India
and  Latvia .  Stockpiles of naphtha, used in gasoline and petrochemicals,
decreased 3.5 percent to 56,000 tons even as product arrived
from the U.K., according to PJK data.  Fuel oil fell for a third week, dropping 19 percent to
619,000 tons as large volumes were sent to  Singapore , PJK said.
That’s the lowest level since Aug. 5 even as supplies arrived
from Estonia, Finland, France, Lithuania,  Poland  and Russia.  Jet fuel plummeted 10 percent to 728,000 tons as aviation
industry demand increased, Kulsen said. Supplies continued to
arrive from the United Arab Emirates, according to PJK data.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  