-- 
Gates Says Chances ‘Low’ Obama Can Close Guantanamo

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-17T19:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/gates-says-chances-are-low-that-obama-can-close-guantanamo.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said there was little chance of President  Barack Obama  being
able to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility -- an
administration priority -- because of congressional opposition.  The chance “is very, very low given the very broad
opposition to doing that here in the Congress,” Gates told the
Senate Armed Services Committee today.  White House spokesman Jay Carney yesterday told reporters
that the administration still wants to shutter the prison at the
naval facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, which has drawn
criticism for alleged human rights abuses.  “The president remains committed to closing Guantanamo,”
Carney said.  Congressional Republicans have opposed closing the facility
and have supported legislation to forbid the Obama
administration from trying in the U.S. Guantanamo detainees such
as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks.  During today’s hearing, Gates said that as many as one-in-
four people freed from Guantanamo are suspected of or confirmed
to have engaged in terrorist activity after their release.  “One of the things we have discovered over time is that
we’re not particularly good at predicting which returnee will be
a recidivist,” he said. “Some of those we have considered the
most dangerous have not, and some that we have evaluated as not
being much of a danger, we’ve discovered in the fight.”  Recidivism  As of October, the Defense Department said it had confirmed
that 81 of the 598 freed detainees had resorted to terrorism.
Another 69 are suspected of having teamed up with militant
groups. Of that group of 150 confirmed and suspected terrorists,
13 are dead, 54 are back in custody and 83 remain at large, the
Defense Department said.  Last year, U.S. government statistics showed that as many
as one-in-five freed detainees may have engaged in terrorist
activities.  A December report by Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper said that of 66 people transferred from Guantanamo
since Obama took office, “two are confirmed and three are
suspected of re-engaging in terrorist or insurgent activities,”
according to a  summary  of the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  