-- 
Geothermal Investments by Tata, Thermax Hinge on Indian Hot Rocks Policy

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-02-17T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/geothermal-investments-by-tata-thermax-hinge-on-indian-hot-rocks-policy.html
India may have a geothermal  energy
policy  by March, spurring investment from companies including
Tata Power Co. and  Thermax Ltd . that aspire to build the
nation’s first electricity plant tapping underground heat.  The Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy  is consulting with
state officials to draft a national policy that will include how
development blocks may be awarded, according to Ramesh Narayan
Sawant, a director at the ministry’s geothermal department.  “We must consult with each of the states and hopefully
that is done by the end of this month so the policy framework
can be drafted by the end of March,” Sawant said in a telephone
interview this week from New Delhi.    Asia ’s third-largest economy wants more non-polluting,
domestic energy sources to reduce its dependence on foreign
suppliers and cut carbon emissions. The country, which imports
more than 75 percent of its crude oil and burns polluting coal
to generate more than half of its power, first needs a framework
agreement with Indian states to ensure they don’t contest the
right to allocate geothermal fields.  Some states “are trying to stake a claim to the natural
resource in their state,” Sawant said. “We need to work with
those states to make the most of  India ’s geothermal resources.”  Geothermal’s advantage over wind and solar power lies in
its potential to generate around the clock, said Ashish Sethia,
lead analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New Delhi.  The technology represents a fraction of the $243 billion
new investment made last year in clean energy systems, which are
dominated by wind farms and solar plants, according to the
London-based analysis firm.  Tata’s Interest  Tata Power, India’s largest investor-owned power producer,
said the ability to deliver a constant, or baseload, supply is a
top attraction to geothermal in a nation that suffers from a
chronic shortfall of electricity generation.  “The big challenge we have to address is the infirm nature
of renewable power: How do you have it when you want it?” Tata
Power Executive Director Banmali Agrawala said in an interview
in November. “We chose geothermal because we consider it to be
the only baseload form of renewable energy there is.”  Tata Power holds an 11.4 percent stake in  Geodynamics Ltd .,
which is building a 50-megawatt geothermal plant with  Origin
Energy Ltd . in  Australia . Mumbai-based Tata Power may bring that
technology to India after the government issues its geothermal
policy, Agrawala said on Feb. 15 by telephone.  Indian companies in the race to put up the first geothermal
plant include Thermax, a Pune-based power equipment maker, and
 Geosyndicate Power Pvt. , founded by D Chandrasekharam, a
geothermics professor at Indian Institute of Technology Bombay.  Power Deficit  India’s government has identified 10,600 megawatts of power
that could be generated from underground heat trapped in rocks,
less than the nation’s power capacity shortfall of almost 15,000
megawatts as of January 2010.  Thermax Managing Director M S Unnikrishnan said there’s
more to be found. The company and its Iceland-based partner,
 Reykjavik Geothermal , expect to begin exploring the Ratnagiri
region in western Maharashtra state shortly, he said on Feb. 11
by telephone.  “The project is on,” Unnikrishnan said. The amount of
exportable heat discovered underground will determine the size
of any subsequent plant. The companies must drill during a five-
year window set by the Indian government, he said.  Geosyndicate Power is awaiting tariff approval from the
state electricity regulator to build a 25-megawatt demonstration
plant at a cost of $43 million in Andhra Pradesh state.  Cost Comparison  Electricity from harnessing underground heat currently
costs about twice as much as conventional coal-based energy,
said BNEF’s Sethia. Tata Power’s Agrawala estimates exploration
costs at $5 million per well.  That gap may narrow as the cost of fossil fuels rise and
governments shape policies to price the environmental damage of
conventional energy sources.  The cost of generation plus an equity return of 10 percent
for geothermal can go as high as $114 per megawatt-hour compared
with $55 per megawatt-hour on average for conventional power
plants in India, Sethia said. The cost for coal-fired plants may
increase with rising use of imported fuel, he said.  India’s introduction of a carbon tax on coal last year is a
sign of policies that will help the price of conventional and
renewable power projects converge, Agrawala said.  “With coal-based generation, we feel we could have
challenges,” Agrawala said. “The gap between renewable power
and conventional power is narrowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 