-- 
Germany's ECB Chances May Fade With Merkel's Bundesbank Choice

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/germany-s-ecb-presidency-chances-may-fade-after-merkel-s-bundesbank-choice.html
  Germany ’s chances of winning the
European Central Bank presidency for the first time may be
fading after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  picked her chief economic
adviser to run the Bundesbank.  Yesterday’s selection of Jens Weidmann to replace
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  leaves compatriot Juergen Stark
on the ECB’s six-strong Executive Board with three years to run
on his term. It is convention that nations have only one
representative on the ECB board at a time. Before Weber’s
surprise decision to quit, economists had speculated he would
succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  in November, with
Stark taking the Bundesbank’s helm to make way for him.  Weber’s exit from the race to become the next ECB chief
paves the way for candidates from  Italy  to Finland, say
economists at ING Group NV and Nomura International Plc. It may
also give Merkel more sway in the debate over reshaping the
euro-area’s economic governance as the European Union implements
a permanent crisis rescue mechanism and revamped budget rules.  “We expect Merkel to agree to a non-German candidate in
return for concessions from especially the smaller countries in
the next ‘grand bargain’ to be agreed at the end of March,”
said Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura in London.  Merkel yesterday praised Weidmann’s talents and predicted
the 42-year old, who joins the ECB’s Governing Council in his
new role, will “raise his voice on behalf of stability culture
at the ECB, thus promoting Germany’s own interests.”  ‘Missed Chance’  His nomination came a week after Weber’s decision to depart
the Bundesbank began leaking out, robbing Merkel of a candidate
for the ECB presidency who embodied the German tradition of
inflation fighting and support for low budget deficits. Klaus Regling, a potential contender as head of Europe’s bailout fund,
may lack the monetary policy experience for the post.  “It’s unlikely now that we’ll see another German
candidate,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “From a German perspective,
it’s a missed chance. A German would have been best to explain
to his countrymen why peripheral countries need support.”  Among the alternatives to Weber,  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  may have strengthened his hand this week by calling
Germany a “model” for the rest of the euro area.  His experience as chairman of the Financial Stability Board
and two decades in economic policy-making bolster his resume.
Italy’s reputation for fiscal imprudence as the nation with the
euro region’s second-highest debt-to-gross domestic product
after  Greece , and his three-years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
may count against him, as does the fact that another southern
European, Vitor Constancio of  Portugal , is ECB vice president.  Sarkozy’s Pick  Draghi, 63, may be well placed to win the support of French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , given Trichet’s departure at the end
of his eight-year, non-renewable term deprives the ECB’s board
of a representative from the euro-area’s second-largest economy.  Had Weber become president, Stark’s likely departure would
have opened up a slot for a French candidate such as Xavier Musca, Sarkozy’s economics adviser, or Jean-Philippe Cotis, head
of France’s statistics agency. Similarly, Draghi replacing
Trichet would probably mean the exit of Lorenzo Bini Smaghi from
the ECB board. If a candidate from another euro-area nation
fills Trichet’s shoes, there may be no slot for  France  for a
time.  “I can’t imagine that the French would accept a small-
country candidate as they can’t offer a seat on the Executive
Board,” said  Carsten Brzeski , at ING Groep in Brussels.
“Draghi’s chances are biggest now.”  Other Contenders  Other contenders include central bankers Erkki Liikanen of  Finland  and Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , 61, who combined have 19
years of monetary policy experience at the ECB.  Irish bookmaker Paddy Power Plc yesterday installed Draghi
as the favorite to take over from Trichet, offering odds of 4 to
9. That means a gambler betting 9 euros ($12) would win 4 euros
and their stake back if Draghi got the job. Liikanen was second
favorite with odds of 2 to one. Mersch had 8 to 1 odds and
Regling was a 20 to 1 outsider.  Mersch, who yesterday said the ECB must act if rising oil
and food prices fuel wage increases, “may appeal more to
Bundesbank traditions given his historical position as one of
the most hawkish on the Governing Council,” said  Nick Matthews ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  By contrast, the desire to avoid a squabble and the fact
that Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  already
chairs the panel of euro-area finance ministers means 60-year
old “Liikanen may be the most likely successor to Trichet,”
said Marc Chandler, head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co.  Rate Outlook  Chandler said investors may need to brace themselves for
earlier interest rate increases given Weber won’t be ECB
president. Weber as an “uber-hawk would not need to hike rates
early in his tenure to establish anti-inflation credentials,”
he said. “The fact that it won’t be Weber would seem to
increase the likelihood of an ECB hike late this year.”  Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said yesterday
Germany wants to keep the topics of ECB personnel and revamping
the euro area separate. He and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  have also said nationality should play no role in
selecting an ECB chief although those statements don’t mesh with  Europe ’s hiring history.  Leaders are debating a package of policies to address
economic competitiveness and the sovereign debt crisis,
targeting a March 24-25 summit for agreement. Merkel wants to
tie a strengthening of the euro-area’s safety net with a pact
that would include caps on wages and spending as well as a
retirement-age extension.  Merkel told NDR radio yesterday that “we haven’t given up
hope or our claim” of getting a German president for the ECB.
The time for deciding the post hasn’t come yet, she said.  Still, “a German candidate has no chance,” said Friedrich Thelen, founder of Thelen-Consult, a Berlin-based business
advisory group. “But Merkel may do a fiscal policy counter-
trade. That’s anything but absurd.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  