-- 
German Bank Subordinated Debt Downgraded by Moody's on Regulation Concern

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-02-18T12:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/german-bank-debt-securities-totaling-33-billion-cut-by-moody-s-on-risks.html
German banks’ subordinated debt
securities valued at 24 billion euros ($33 billion) were
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service on the prospect that new
legislation will increase the risk of losses among debt holders.  Moody’s cut the ratings of lower Tier 2 notes, a layer of
debt that’s subordinated by coming behind senior bonds in the
queue for repayment after a bank collapses. Like other
governments seeking to ensure creditors pay up before taxpayers
have to contribute, German law now removes the protection Tier 2
bonds enjoyed from the authorities’ preference for saving
lenders before they fail.  “The new legislation materially reduces the likelihood of
government support for LT2 securities and therefore took out the
state support uplift,” BNP Paribas SA analysts Olivia Frieser
and Ivan Zubo wrote in a note to clients today. “The downgrades
are as harsh as we had expected, which may weigh on sentiment.”  The cost of insuring German bank debt rose, according to
CMA prices for credit-default swaps. Contracts on the
subordinated debt of  Deutsche Bank AG  jumped 12 basis points to
160, the highest in five weeks. Swaps linked to  Commerzbank AG ’s
junior debt climbed 25 basis points to 450 and senior contracts
rose 10 to 190.  Toughening Rules  Lawmakers throughout  Europe  are toughening rules governing  bank failures . Danish regulators wiped out the stock and
subordinated bonds of Amagerbanken A/S when it failed this
month, and are going further than that by inflicting losses --
expected to be about 41 percent -- on senior bondholders and
depositors with more than the insured maximum in their accounts.  “Bondholders have to be prepared for losses,” Bjoern Skogstad Aamo, head of  Norway ’s Financial Supervisory Authority
in Oslo, said Feb. 10.  In Ireland, where the state has put 46.3 billion euros into
its debt-laden banks after property prices collapsed, the Credit
Institutions (Stabilization) Bill gives the government the power
to force subordinated bondholders to take losses. Junior
creditors of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. were obliged to sell back
their notes at an 80 percent discount.    Germany ’s Bank Restructuring Act was approved by Parliament
on Nov. 2 and allows regulators to transfer the assets and
liabilities of a failing bank while permitting the government to
write down debt.  Impose Losses  “The new regulatory tools allow authorities to impose
losses on debt holders without necessarily placing the entire
bank into liquidation,” the ratings firm said yesterday in a
statement. “Moody’s considers subordinated debt to be most at
risk under the new law.”  The ratings downgrades apply to 248 subordinated securities
together with portions of debt programs issued or backed by 24
banks. The average reduction was 2 1/2 levels, Moody’s said.  Deutsche Bank AG, Commerzbank AG, Munich-based  Bayerische
Landesbank  and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale, the  fund manager 
for Germany’s state-owned savings banks, were among lenders
whose securities were downgraded.  Libby Young, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, Reiner Rossmann,
a Commerzbank spokesman, and BayernLB’s Florian Ernst all
declined to comment. DekaBank spokesman Markus Weber didn’t
return a voice mail.  “The regulatory tools provided by the Bank Restructuring
Act are broad enough to allow the imposition of losses on senior
unsecured and subordinated bondholders,” Moody’s said.  The following banks’ subordinated debt ratings were downgraded:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  