-- 
Gold Miners Need to Woo Investors to Rival ETFs, BlackRock Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-02-17T06:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/gold-miners-need-to-woo-investors-to-rival-etfs-blackrock-says.html
Gold-mining companies will have to
improve their performance and boost their dividends to compete
with exchange-traded funds for investor interest, said  BlackRock
Inc ., the world’s largest money manager.  “Gold companies have to change their mentality, stop being
lazy, stop resting on their laurels and realize they have to
perform,” said Catherine Raw, who co-manages BlackRock’s $9.2
billion  World Gold Fund  and the company’s flagship $17 billion
World Mining Fund with Evy Hambro. “They have to provide the
growth, provide the cost control in order to outperform the ETFs
because people won’t just buy them by default anymore.”  Gold held in exchange-traded products stood at 2,016.98
metric tons on Feb. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from 10 providers. Holdings reached a record 2,114.6 tons in
December. The precious metal, often viewed as a safe haven and a
currency proxy, rallied 30 percent last year on concern the
economic recovery would falter. It’s down 2.9 percent this year.  “With ETFs you can get essentially pure exposure to gold
without any other risks associated with owning a mining
company,” such as political, geological and management risks,
Raw said in an interview in Geneva on Feb. 15. “You have to be
compensated for those risks if you are going to own gold
equity.”  BlackRock’s equity funds represent 2.5 percent to 3 percent
of the global market capitalization of gold, silver, platinum
and palladium miners, according to Raw. The World Gold Fund’s
biggest holdings include  Newcrest Mining Ltd ., Kinross Gold
Corp. and  Fresnillo Plc .  Newmont, Fronteer  Gold mining companies fearing investors may exit are
already moving to reinvest cash in new production rather than
issue equity, Raw said.  Newmont Mining Corp ., the largest U.S.
gold producer, said Feb. 3 it agreed to buy Vancouver-based  Fronteer Gold Inc . for C$2 billion ($2 billion) in cash,
including net debt, to gain exploration and development projects
in  Nevada .  “There’s been a real change in the way the gold companies
invest their cash flows,” Raw said. “That’s not something that
would have happened five years ago.”  Another change is visible in dividend policies, as
shareholders press companies to differentiate themselves from
ETFs. The gold industry didn’t pay dividends until about two
years ago, Raw said.  Base Metals  Base-metal ETFs are unlikely to have as broad a reach as
the gold funds, Raw said.  ETF Securities Ltd.  started the first
exchange-traded products in physical copper, nickel and tin in
December. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock have said they may
also open such funds.  “There isn’t the same logic behind owning copper ETF,”
Raw said. Gold ETFs are a safe-haven asset, while people look at
industrial metals as linked to the global growth story, she
said. “I just don’t see the same level of investment demand
that we’ve seen for gold.”  Higher storage costs will also probably deter investors
from ETFs backed by industrial metals, she said, adding that the
tin fund “might be interesting, because there are very few tin
mining companies, and what you have seen is that there has been
a real squeeze in the tin market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Geneva, via the London newsroom at
   mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 