-- 
Goldman, EQT Plan $2.42 Billion Initial Public Offering for Denmark's ISS

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-17T12:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/goldman-eqt-plan-ipo-of-iss-biggest-in-denmark-in-16-years.html
Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and
EQT Partners AB will sell shares of ISS Holding A/S, the world’s
largest cleaning-service provider, in what may be  Denmark ’s
biggest initial public offering in more than 16 years.  The IPO will consist mostly of new shares and will raise
gross proceeds of about 13.3 billion kroner ($2.42 billion)
which will be used to reduce the company’s debt, the Copenhagen-
based company said today in a statement.  “There’s an appetite for IPOs in the market now, there’s
liquidity,” Chief Executive Officer Jeff Gravenhorst said in a
phone interview today.  The offering would be Denmark’s biggest since the
government in 1994 sold a stake in Copenhagen-based phone
company TDC A/S for $3 billion and would exceed last year’s $1.7
billion IPO of Pandora A/S, a Glostrup-based maker of jewelry.  EQT and Goldman Sachs, which acquired ISS for 21.9 billion
kroner in 2005, said in August they were considering a sale of
the company and hired bankers to review their options. ISS has
an enterprise value of as much as 49 billion kroner, Jyske Bank
A/S said in December. Because the owners haven’t decided how
many shares to sell, it isn’t possible to estimate the company’s
value from the planned IPO proceeds, Gravenhorst said.  Reduce Gearing  “We couldn’t go to the stock exchange without doing
something to reduce our gearing at the same time,” Gravenhorst
said. The IPO will take place on the Copenhagen exchange “in
not too long,” he said.  ISS said net debt amounted to 30.6 billion kroner at the
end of last year, according to today’s  earnings report . ISS
reported a 7.3 percent advance in 2010 sales to 74.1 billion
kroner while its net loss shrank three-fold to 532 million
kroner. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization jumped 21 percent to a record 5 billion kroner.  “EQT and Goldman are staying on board for a while, but in
the long run they’ll probably dispose of all their shares,”
Martin Bo Hansen, a corporate bond analyst at Jyske Bank said by
phone today. He said he will now review his December ISS
valuation estimate of 47 billion kroner to 49 billion kroner
based on today’s earnings report.  Biggest Acquisition  Apax Partners LLP dropped a 6.4 billion-euro ($8.7 billion)
bid for ISS last month, according to two people familiar with
the talks. That would have been the biggest acquisition by a
European private equity firm since the credit crisis.  ISS, operating in more than 50 countries with more than
500,000 workers, provides cleaning, catering, security and call-
center services. It has mainly grown through acquisitions of
more than 600 companies in the past decade, making it the Nordic
region’s most acquisitive company.  The cost of insuring the senior debt of ISS Global fell 31
basis points to 198, the lowest level since December 2007,
according to CMA. Credit-default swaps linked to the holding
company’s subordinated debt dropped 65 basis points to 183.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Nordea Bank AB will
manage the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  