-- 
Green Mountain Declines After Starbucks CEO’s Memo

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-02-17T22:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/green-mountain-coffee-shares-decline-after-starbucks-memo-report.html
  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc .
fell the most since December after  Starbucks Corp . Chief
Executive Officer Howard Schultz said there are no
“demonstrated, long-term winners” yet in the single-serve
coffee industry, a market Green Mountain dominates in the U.S.  “Green Mountain has done a very fine job introducing
single-serve brewer technology to the U.S. market,” Schultz,
57, said in the memo, obtained by Bloomberg News. “As a result
it has emerged as an early leader. But as I have said, these are
very early days, and history has demonstrated time and again
that patents alone do not determine market winners -- deep
customer engagement, best-in-class experiences and quality do.”  Patents on the Keurig K-Cup system are set to expire next
year, which will likely change the dynamic of the industry,
Schultz said.  Green Mountain ’s Keurig system has about 80
percent of U.S. sales of single-serve coffee machines, according
to Scott Van Winkle, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in  Boston .  Shares of Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain fell 7.7
percent, the most since Dec. 10, to $40.71 at 4 p.m. in New
York. Seattle-based Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop
chain, dropped 0.2 percent to $33.50.  “We do believe in the increasing strength of the single-
serving category and the power of the Keurig brand,” Suzanne
DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. She declined to comment about potential partnerships.  Lara Wyss, a spokeswoman for Starbucks, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment. Reuters reported the contents of
the memo earlier today.  Green Mountain stock rose 60 percent in the past year
through yesterday. The company, which also makes K-Cup coffee
packets, said on Feb. 2 that net sales may rise 92 percent to 97
percent in the quarter ending in March. The shares jumped 6.7
percent on Feb. 14, the most since the company’s initial public
offering in September 1993, after Reuters reported that the
company was in partnership talks with Starbucks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in  New York  at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net ;  Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 