-- 
Libya's `Day of Anger' Protests Reported to Leave at Least 19 People Dead

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-18T00:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/libya-arrests-at-least-14-for-trying-to-organize-anti-government-protest.html
  Libya ’s “Day of Anger” protests
against Muammar Qaddafi, in power for 41 years, led to clashes
with pro-government forces in which at least 19 people were
reported killed.  An opposition website and an anti-Qaddafi activist said
violence broke out during marches yesterday in five Libyan
cities, according to the  Associated Press . The 19 deaths were in
the second- and third-largest cities, Benghazi and Beyida,
according to Al Arabiya television. An opposition website said
some demonstrators were killed by snipers from the internal
security forces, according to AP.  There is an absence of independent reporting due to Libya’s
tight press restrictions. The government-controlled Libyan media
presented reports of people praising Qaddafi, who has ruled
since 1969 while tolerating no dissent.    Amnesty International , in a statement, cited unconfirmed
reports that at least 12 protesters were killed in clashes in
the last two days and urged the Libyan authorities to “cease
using excessive force to suppress anti-government protests.”  “Libyan police and security forces must respect the rights
of protesters, not abuse them,” Amnesty said. “The government
must rein in these forces and order an immediate impartial
investigation into the deadly and other excessive force that has
been used so far.”  Oil Reserves  Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in Africa, with
44.3 billion barrels in 2009, according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy. Qaddafi is Africa’s longest serving
leader.  Libyan security forces arrested at least 14 people for
trying to organize the anti-government rallies,  Human Rights
Watch  said in a  statement  yesterday that urged authorities to
immediately free the activists.  Among those being held are Mohamed al-Sahim, a writer, and
four former political prisoners -- the brothers Farag, Al-Mahdi,
Sadek, and Ali Hmeid, the campaign group said on its website.
The arrests began on Feb. 1, according to the statement.  Inspired by events in Tunisia and  Egypt , Libyan activists
had been using the  Internet  and social media to call for the
“Day of Anger” rally yesterday, the anniversary of a 2006
protest during which security forces killed at least 12 people,
who were attacking the city’s Italian consulate.  Libya’s regime has been sending  text messages  to warn
people that live bullets will be fired if they joined
yesterday’s protests, al-Jazeera reported.  State-Controlled Media  “Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi  should learn from his former
neighbors that stability has to include respect for peaceful
protest,” Joe Stork, deputy Middle East director at Human
Rights Watch said, referring to the mass protests that led to  Hosni Mubarak  resigning as Egypt’s president Feb. 11 and former
Tunisian President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali fleeing on Jan. 14.  State television reported that pro-government supporters
were assembling across Libya yesterday, which is also the
anniversary of the 1987 public execution of nine Libyans
convicted of trying to kill Libyan and foreign officials.  At least two people died Feb. 16 in clashes between
security forces and protesters in Beyida, a town east of
Benghazi, Human Rights Watch said.  “The Libyan authorities tried to smother this protest
before it even got off the ground but that, clearly, did not
work,” said Amnesty International. “Now they are resorting to
brutal means to punish and deter the protesters,” said Malcolm
Smart, Amnesty International’s director for the Middle East and
North  Africa .  Tripoli residents said they were having trouble accessing
the Internet, AP reported, although it was not clear whether
access had been blocked or the bandwidth reduced has happened
for a period in Egypt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 