-- 
Jagger’s Daughter, Jade, to Design Homes in Mumbai

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-02-18T04:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/mick-jagger-s-daughter-jade-to-design-homes-in-mumbai-suburb.html
Jade Jagger, the daughter of Rolling
Stones rocker Mick Jagger, is set to design homes for a  Mumbai 
luxury residential project as Indian builders hire international
designers to woo customers whose wealth is soaring.  Jagger, 39, will create residences for Lodha Developers Ltd.
in the northeastern suburb of Goregaon, according to a marketing
brochure targeting wealthy buyers obtained by Bloomberg. Jagger
has partnered with London-based design firm  Yoo Design Studio ,
its Chairman John Hitchcox said in a phone interview on Feb. 16.    India  is a great opportunity for us,” said Hitchcox.
“We are now living in this mass celebrity world. People are
looking for more and more identity. There is a tendency for them
to want to identify with how others live and their lifestyles.”  Indian developers need to lure buyers in a market where new
home sales fell as much as 25 percent after prices reached a
record in early 2010. Prices won’t recover in the next six
months, London-based property broker  Knight Frank  LLP said in
December, while local broker IIFL Ltd. said Mumbai real estate
companies may cut  home prices  to revive flagging sales after
banks curbed credit to developers.  Yoo, a venture between property entrepreneur Hitchcox and
eponymous French designer Philippe Starck, is designing a
residential project for Panchshil Realty in the western Indian
city of Pune. U.S. billionaire real-estate developer  Donald Trump  is entering the Indian property market with a luxury
residential tower in Mumbai.  Soaring Wealth  India’s wealthy may almost double their assets to $6.4
trillion over the next five years as economic growth swells
their ranks, Credit Suisse Group AG said in its global wealth
report released in October.  “Indian premium homebuyers have been displaying a distinct
predilection for an international flavor in their residential
picks,” said Mumbai-based Anuj Puri, chairman of Chicago-based
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s Indian unit. “Developers have little
choice but to cater to this trend, considering the fact that
there is a lot of competition for branded residences.”  That has fanned demand for residences designed by the likes
of brands such as Versace, Gucci and  Roberto Cavalli  among the
well-heeled in major cities, said Mumbai-based Anand Narayanan,
India director of Knight Frank.  Trump’s venture with Mumbai developer  Rohan Lifescapes Pvt. 
will be the company’s first in the country, Donald Trump Jr.,
Trump’s son and executive vice president at the Trump
Organization LLC, said in an interview last month.  Starck in Pune  Yoo will create 228 homes designed by Starck spread across
17 acres in Pune, about 93 miles from Mumbai, according to a
statement from Panchshil in December at the project’s launch.
The development will include six towers, a Six Senses Spa,
swimming pools, a tea lounge, and cigar room.  Starck is famous for his  interiors  of hotels, restaurants
and shops from Paris to  Hong Kong , as well as furniture and the
Juicy Salif Lemon Squeezer.  Jagger, daughter of Mick and Bianca Jagger, has designed
villas in Marrakech in  Morocco ;  Turkey ; The Jade condominiums in  New York , and The Lakes in the Cotswolds, the U.K. region known
for its rolling hills and stone villages.  Mumbai-based Lodha’s residential project in the city will
include four towers, with the tallest comprising four-bedroom
apartments, duplexes and sky villas with their own elevator and
private swimming pools, according to the marketing document.  The project, called Fiorenza, is expected to be completed
in 2014 and sell for 12,000 rupees ($264) per square foot,
according to an October report from Edelweiss Securities Ltd.
The rate in the area for similar projects is between 11,000
rupees and 12,000 rupees per square foot.  Transforming a Suburb  Pyramid Property Consultants Ltd., which is marketing the
Fiorenza project, says the flats range from two-bedroom, 1,249
square feet apartments that cost 20 million rupees, and go up to
5,355 square feet duplexes which cost more than 60 million
rupees. Lodha Developers declined to comment for the story.  Goregaon, a middle-class residential neighborhood, is being
turned into a wealthy suburb with shopping malls and luxury
hotels including the Westin Mumbai Garden City, and Oberoi  Garden City , an 80-acre residential, office and hotel complex
being developed by  Oberoi Realty Ltd .  Jagger will design a club house that will include a gym,
spa and waterside cafe, the brochure said. The towers will
include a rooftop party floor that will house dinner lounges, a
party terrace and a private discotheque.  “Jade has spent a lot of time in India and it has been her
big interest,” said Hitchcox, whose firm employs six creative
directors including Jagger. “We try to go local as much as we
can when we arrive in a country and merge our experience with
the local design, taste and styles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  