-- 
Tigers' Miguel Cabrera Charged With Driving Under the Influence in Florida

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T16:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/tigers-miguel-cabrera-charged-with-driving-under-the-influence-in-florida.html
Detroit Tigers All-Star first
baseman  Miguel Cabrera  was arrested and charged with driving
under the influence after police watched him drink from a bottle
of Scotch as he sat in his car alongside a Florida road.  Cabrera said about a year ago that he had given up drinking
alcohol and went on to post his best Major League Baseball
season, finishing second to Josh Hamilton in American League
Most Valuable Player voting.  Cabrera, 27, was charged with one misdemeanor count of
driving under the influence and two misdemeanor counts of
resisting an officer without violence after being detained by
the St. Lucie County, Florida, Sheriff’s Office last night,
according to the arrest report.  An e-mail seeking comment from Ron Colangelo, a spokesman
for the Tigers, and a telephone message seeking comment from
Fernando Cuza, Cabrera’s agent, weren’t immediately returned.
The Tigers are holding spring training in Lakeland,  Florida ,
about 150 miles northwest of where Cabrera was stopped.  Cabrera made $20 million last season, making him the sixth-
highest paid player in baseball, according to USA Today.  He said last March that he was done drinking alcohol. Five
months earlier, Tigers General Manager Dave Dombrowski picked
Cabrera up at a police station following a fight between the
player and his wife that allegedly came after a night of
drinking, the  Associated Press  reported. Cabrera’s blood-alcohol
level that night was 0.26, three times above  Michigan ’s limit
for driving, and he had a bruised and cut cheek, AP said.  O-11 Weekend  The Tigers, who led the  Minnesota Twins  by one game for the
division lead entering the final weekend of the season, dropped
two of three games to the  Chicago White Sox  as Cabrera went 0-
for-11. Detroit then lost a one-game playoff to the Twins.  The police report from last night said an officer
approached Cabrera when he spotted the player’s vehicle on the
side of the road in Fort Pierce, Florida, with smoke coming from
its engine.  The officer detected a strong odor of alcohol on Cabrera,
who was slurring his speech and had watery, bloodshot eyes,
according to the report. The officer watched as Cabrera, sitting
in his car, picked up a bottle of Scotch whisky and drank some.  The report said Cabrera had to be handcuffed because he
wouldn’t follow officers’ orders and kept running into the road
with his hands up. Eventually, an officer kneed his thigh to
subdue him, the report said.  Cabrera then refused to get into a patrol car, saying, “Do
you know who I am? You don’t know anything about my problems,”
according to the report.  No Breath Test  Cabrera refused to take a breath test and posted a $1,350
bond. He was released at 7:45 a.m. today, according to police.  The five-time All-Star batted .328 with a league-leading
126 runs batted in and 38 home runs in 2010. He was a 20-year-
old rookie with the  Florida Marlins  in 2003 when they defeated
the  New York Yankees  in the  World Series .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 