-- 
Hillary Clinton Fundraisers Indicted for Reimbursing Campaign Contributors

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hillary-clinton-fundraisers-indicted-for-reimbursing-campaign-contributors.html
One of  Hillary Clinton ’s top
fundraisers for her presidential campaign was indicted with a
second man for improperly reimbursing $186,600 to donors, the
 U.S. Justice Department  said.  Yesterday’s indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2006 Senate
and 2008 presidential runs, charges William P. Danielczyk Jr.,
chairman of McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital Group LLC, and
Eugene R. Biagi, Galen’s secretary and treasurer, with
reimbursing donors, sometimes with corporate funds, who gave to
the campaigns of the current U.S. secretary of state.  Danielczyk raised more than $100,000 for Clinton’s
unsuccessful bid to be the Democratic presidential nominee,
according to  Public Citizen , a Washington-based advocacy group.  Danielczyk, 49, and Biagi, 76, both of Oakton, Virginia,
were each charged with conspiracy, illegally reimbursing
contributions -- including some with company funds -- and
obstructing justice. They are scheduled to appear Feb. 18 in
federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia .  The two men and other employees of Galen Capital gave
$52,300 to the two Clinton campaigns, according to the  Center
for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research group.
While the indictment includes only initials of the reimbursed
donors, some match the names of the contributors in the center’s
listings.  Another Clinton fundraiser,  Hassan Nemazee , admitted
defrauding banks of $292 million and was sentenced to 12 years
in prison. Democratic fundraiser Norman Hsu received more than
24 years in prison for campaign finance violations and
defrauding investors of more than $20 million.  A phone number for Galen Capital was disconnected.
Danielczyk’s home telephone number is unlisted, and no one
answered Biagi’s home telephone.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 1:11-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.netl ;  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 