-- 
India Plans to Extend Subsidy Program for Wind Power Projects Beyond 2012

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T08:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/india-plans-to-extend-subsidy-program-for-wind-power-projects-beyond-2012.html
  India  plans to continue offering a
subsidy to wind farm developers which rewards them based on the
amount of power they generate, government officials said.  “Generation-based incentive will continue” beyond March
2012, Renewable Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah told a
conference in  New Delhi  this week.  India introduced the subsidy in December 2009 to encourage
the development of more efficient wind farms as an alternative
to a tax break involving accelerated depreciation, which failed
to encourage wind projects to produce power once built. Wind
farms built by March 31, 2012, are eligible for the subsidy of
500 rupees ($11) per megawatt-hour of electricity they feed into
the grid.  The finance and renewable energy ministries both want to
see the accelerated depreciation benefit discontinued next year,
when India is expected to introduce a new  tax code , Abdullah
said.  “They’re not going to continue depreciation,” he said.
“Generation-based incentive is better because you’re paid for
the power you generate. Depreciation does not really do that.”  The government is likely to continue the generation subsidy
beyond next year though it will require formal approval from the
Cabinet, Dilip Nigam, a director who oversees wind policy at the
ministry, said in an interview yesterday.  The amount of subsidy is unlikely to be raised, said Nigam.
Project developers want an increase, saying it’s not as
lucrative as depreciation benefits.  Wind projects can also earn one certificate worth at least
1,500 rupees for every megawatt-hour they generate under a new
renewable energy trading program that was launched in November.
This should provide more than enough incentive, dispelling any
need to raise the subsidy, Nigam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 