-- 
India Joins Push for Offshore Wind by Enlisting ONGC

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T05:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/indian-government-may-ask-ongc-to-work-on-first-offshore-wind-projects.html
The Indian government may enlist the
help of Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the state-run explorer, in
surveying offshore wind-power potential and setting up the
nation’s first two wind farms at sea.  “We’re thinking of two pilot projects in Tamil Nadu and
Gujarat states,”  Deepak Gupta , secretary of the Ministry of New
and Renewable Energy, said yesterday in an interview on the
sidelines of a wind conference in New Delhi.  The projects would be  India ’s first attempt to exploit
offshore wind, a market that has doubled in size in just two
years. The construction of wind farms off the coast is driving
growth in an industry still recovering from the global
recession.  The survey is important as India doesn’t have good data on
offshore wind speeds and their variability, which developers
need before they make investments, said Ashish Sethia, lead
analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New Delhi. “The
survey will help in getting reliable data to reduce their
risk.”  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s biggest wind-turbine
maker, is vying with companies that include  Germany ’s  Siemens
AG , Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA of  Spain  and  REpower
Systems AG , a unit of India’s  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., for offshore
sales.  ONGC, India’s biggest energy explorer, may be able to help
because of its offshore expertise with oil fields, Gupta said,
declining to elaborate.  The ministry aims to complete its plans for the survey and
projects in the next three months, he said.  More Expensive  BNEF estimates offshore wind’s cost of generation plus a 10
equity return at between $128 per megawatt-hour and $263 per
megawatt-hour. This compares with $60 per megawatt-hour to $100
per megawatt-hour for onshore wind and $55 per megawatt-hour for
conventional power in India.  Suzlon, India’s biggest wind-turbine maker, has preliminary
estimates showing the South Asian nation may have the potential
to produce 25,000 megawatts of power from wind farms at sea,
especially in areas off Tamil Nadu and Gujarat states, Chairman
Tulsi Tanti said in an interview in November. That would be
almost double India’s current installed wind capacity of  13,065
megawatts , according to ministry statistics as of Dec. 31.  While India has a coastline stretching more than 7,500
kilometers (4,660 miles), research hasn’t shown locations with
sufficient wind for offshore turbines, according to the World
Energy Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in  New Delhi  at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  