-- 
Infineon Chief Bauer Sees `Disproportionate' High Growth Opportunities

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-17T10:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/infineon-ceo-bauer-sees-disproportionately-high-opportunities-for-growth.html
  Infineon Technologies AG ,  Europe ’s
second-largest chipmaker, sees “disproportionately high growth
opportunities” on demand for semiconductors that reduce power
consumption and go into cars and trains.  “Infineon is firing on all cylinders,” Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Bauer  told shareholders in Munich at the annual
shareholders meeting. “The volume of orders is excellent,
providing plenty of fuel for the coming quarters.”  Infineon, whose outlook in 2009 was ‘bleak,” according to
Bauer, has completed a restructuring that included disposing of
unprofitable units. The revamp was concluded in January with the
sale of the mobile chip unit to  Intel Corp . for $1.4 billion.  This month, the Neubiberg, Germany-based company raised its
full-year forecast, expecting sales to rise by a mid-teens
percentage, up from a target of “close to 10 percent.”  Bauer said the company has 2.7 billion euros ($3.7 billion)
in funds following the sale of the wireless unit and this will
be spent on organic growth, on returning money to shareholders
and to “keep money in the kitty for acquisitions.”  He said that potential acquisitions have to “offer
reasonable appreciation potential.”  “Many companies in our industry are expensive at the
moment,” Bauer said. “The extent to which acquisitions make
sense in the current market environment has to be asked.”  Infineon shares rose as much as 1.1 percent and were 0.6
percent higher at 8.16 euros as of 11 a.m. in  Frankfurt .    Asia  Demand  Bauer said the company now makes 42 percent of its revenue
in Asia, and cited unnamed forecasters as saying that Asia’s
share of the global semiconductor market is expected to rise to
60 percent by the middle of the decade from 57 percent in 2009.  He said in  China  the government plans to expand the high-
speed railway network by 54 percent to 20,000 kilometers.  “That entails enormous investments in fleets of trains
with drive systems packed with semiconductors,” he said.  Infineon has proposed paying a dividend of 10 cents a
share, or a total payout of 109 million euros, for the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30. It will be the first dividend from the
company in a decade.  “With this measure, we wish to embark on a  cash flow 
oriented dividend policy and let you participate in the success
of your company,” Chief Financial Officer Dominik Asam told
shareholders, according to prepared remarks.  Infineon also asked shareholders to give it authorization
to buy back as much as 10 percent of the shares over five years.  Separately, the company’s supervisory board said it has
extended the contracts of Bauer and board member Reinhard Ploss
to Sept. 30, 2016 and Sept. 30, 2015, respectively. Board
members will receive a target annual income comprised of 45
percent fixed compensation and 55 percent variable compensation
based on performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  