-- 
Intel Says Nokia Went to ‘Highest Bidder,’ Microsoft

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-17T21:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/intel-says-nokia-went-to-highest-bidder-in-microsoft-tie-up.html
  Intel Corp . Chief Executive Officer
Paul Otellini said  Nokia Oyj  went to the “highest bidder” when
it chose to use  Microsoft Corp .’s operating system on future
phones instead of software Nokia is developing with Intel.  “Between Microsoft and Google he was getting incredible
offers, money to switch,” Otellini said on a conference call
with investors, referring to Nokia CEO Stephen Elop. “Microsoft
bid more.”  Nokia, the world’s largest handset maker, said on Feb. 11
that it will use Microsoft’s Windows Phone software as its
primary mobile-phone platform, replacing its own Symbian
software. Intel and Nokia had jointly developed an alternative
operating system called MeeGo, an attempt by both companies to
break into the market for smartphones, which is dominated by  Google Inc .’s Android and  Apple Inc .’s iPhone.  “I wouldn’t have made the decision he made,” Otellini
said. “I would have probably gone to Android. Doing MeeGo would
have been the best strategy for him, but he concluded he
couldn’t afford it.”  Laurie Armstrong, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Nokia,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail and phone calls seeking a
comment. Microsoft spokeswoman Melissa Havel declined to comment
on Otellini’s statement.  Seeking Other Partners  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, is trying to grab a
foothold in the rapidly growing market for smartphones and
tablet computers. Its scaled-down personal-computer processors
have failed to win a spot in any phone that’s currently on sale.
The majority of smartphones and tablets run on chips made by
companies such as  Qualcomm Inc . and Texas Instruments Inc.,
using technology from ARM Holdings Plc.  Intel is developing MeeGo to try to expand in the industry.
Otellini said that mobile-phone service providers support his
effort because they don’t want the market to be dominated by
Apple and Google.  “The carriers still want a third ecosystem,” he said.
“We’ll find other partners.”  Nokia’s Elop said last week that a MeeGo-based device will
be shipped this year as a way to “learn” about users’
experiences, and then developers will be put on other projects.  Intel rose 22 cents, or 1 percent, to $21.97 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained
4.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  