-- 
Iranian Opposition Calls for Feb. 20 Rallies to Mourn Deaths of Protester

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-17T22:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/iranian-opposition-calls-for-feb-21-rallies-to-mourn-deaths-of-protester.html
(Corrects date of protest in first paragraph.)    Iran ’s opposition called for
nationwide rallies on Feb. 20 to mourn the deaths of those
killed in anti-government protests a week earlier, according to
a statement on the website of opposition leader and former Prime
Minister  Mir Hossein Mousavi .  “We invite the noble Iranian nation to attend gatherings
in Tehran and other cities on Sunday at 3 p.m. to commemorate
the day of martyrdom” of those who died, the opposition said on
the  website .  Mousavi’s daughters said they hadn’t heard from either of
their parents in 48 hours, according to an interview posted on
another opposition site,  rahesabz.net . The Mousavi house had
been surrounded by security forces and all communications cut,
they said.  Authorities shut down a Feb. 14 demonstration in Tehran
that was backed by opposition leaders including Mousavi and
Mehdi Karrubi, who challenged President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in
the 2009 presidential election and said the result was rigged.
Tens of thousands of protesters were dispersed by security
forces using tear gas and baton charges, Al Jazeera television
said. Press TV said two people were killed in the unrest, which
was inspired by uprisings in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Iranian judiciary chief, Sadegh Larijani, said he would
block efforts by opposition leaders to make statements to their
supporters, calling them “leaders of the sedition,” according
to a state-run Press TV report today.  Ahmadinejad announced a program today to “eradicate
unemployment” by developing Iran’s downstream oil capacities to
provide more jobs for young people, the state-run  Islamic
Republic News Agency  said. He was speaking at the opening of
eight petrochemical projects in the city of Mahshahr, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 