-- 
Iran Says It's Sending Two Ships to Suez; Egypt Says No Permission Granted

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-02-17T18:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/iran-says-it-s-sending-two-warships-through-suez-canal-press-tv-reports.html
  Iran  is arranging with Egyptian
officials to have two of its warships use the Suez Canal,
Iranian  state-run Press TV  said. The  Suez Canal Authority  said
after today’s report that no Iranian naval vessels had been
granted permission to sail through the waterway.  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said yesterday
that Iran was planning later that day to send two gunboats
through the canal to Syria, which would involve heading through
the eastern Mediterranean, off Israel’s coast. He called the
move a “provocation.”  “It’s meant as a clear provocation to Israel, and is also
an attempt by Iran to change the subject from the fact that,
while Tehran welcomed the downfall of the Egyptian government,
they have a problem at home right now where a certain section of
their own people would like to see that regime also fall,”
Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya near  Tel Aviv , said in a phone interview.  Concern that anti-government unrest in Egypt would disrupt
canal traffic sent oil prices to a two-year high on Feb. 2. The
120-mile (190-kilometer) Suez Canal carries about 2.5 percent of
world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and is
a key route for ships carrying Asian consumer goods to  Europe .  Iran’s opposition called for nationwide rallies Feb. 20 to
mourn those killed in anti-government protests this week,
according to the website of former Prime Minister  Mir Hossein Mousavi , who challenged President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in the
2009 election. Iran has sought to crush anti-government protests
at home, including Feb. 14 rallies inspired by the revolts in  Egypt  and Tunisia that ousted their leaders.  Naval Official  Press TV cited an unidentified naval official as saying
Iranian officials were in contact with Egypt to arrange passage
for the warships and that Egyptian authorities believe there was
nothing wrong with their planned journey. The broadcaster said
the official was confirming previous reports that Iranian
warships would use the waterway.  “We don’t have any information or a license from any
ministry in Egypt,” the canal’s head of traffic, Ahmed El Manakhly, said by phone after the Iranian report. The Defense
Ministry must approve any vessel’s use of the canal, he told
Bloomberg Television before the Iranian report. “According to
the rules which govern navigation through Suez -- international
rules -- we cannot forbid any vessel from passing through the  Suez Canal  if there is no war between Egypt and that country.”  Oil, Franc  Oil prices rose after the Iranian report, with Brent crude
increasing 42 cents to $104.20 a barrel. In  New York , crude rose
23 cents to $85.22 a barrel.  The Iranian navy’s use of the canal would be “both a
provocation and their right,”  Cliff Kupchan , Iran analyst at the
Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“Given they haven’t done it in a long time and they are doing it
in the context of Middle East instability, it is certainly a
provocation.”  Kupchan said the use of the canal by Iranian warships would
be important because it would “signal Iran’s growing influence
in this time of flux.” He said, “These guys are masters at
disinformation, roiling markets, keeping everyone guessing.
Sometimes they pull the punch, sometimes they throw the punch.”  Iran hasn’t sent warships through the canal in “many
years,” Lieberman said yesterday. The ships are a British-
built, 1960s-era Mk-5 frigate and a supply vessel, according to  Israel ’s Yedioth Ahronot newspaper.  Jewish Leaders  Lieberman, who made the remarks in a speech in Jerusalem to
U.S. Jewish leaders, said another provocation by Iran was the
October visit to southern Lebanon by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The Israeli minister compared Ahmadinejad to Hitler
in a December interview in  Newsweek .  The Iranian vessels are meant to be on a cadet training
cruise and have a right to use the canal, Gary Sick, a member of
the U.S. National Security Council under presidents  Gerald Ford ,  Jimmy Carter  and  Ronald Reagan  and the principal White House
aide on Iran during the 1979-81 hostage crisis, said in a
telephone interview.  “As far as I know, this is not an attack on anyone,” he
said. “It’s hard to see how two ships on a training cruise
through Jeddah and making a stop through the  Red Sea  is a threat
to Israel.” The Israeli foreign minister “would certainly
complain if Israel was not allowed to pass through the Suez by a
successor government that was very critical of Israeli policies,
and he’d be very right,” Sick said.  Regional Unrest  Israeli leaders have voiced concern that Iran may exploit
the instability in the region following the Feb. 11 ousting of
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.  Iran has accused the U.S. and Israel of stoking dissent in
the country and rejects international sanctions against its
nuclear program. Iran has said discussions of Israel’s nuclear
development should be part of any talks on its own atomic work.
Israel hasn’t confirmed or denied possession of nuclear weapons.  Israel and the U.S. suspect that Iran’s nuclear program is
aimed at producing weapons. Iran says its atomic installations
are for generating power. The United Nations has imposed four
rounds of sanctions on Iran over its nuclear development.  “The international community must understand that Israel
can’t ignore forever these kinds of provocations,” Lieberman
said in the speech in which he discussed the ships.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net 
Vivian Salama in Cairo through the Dubai newsroom at
   vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 