-- 
Liverpool, Napoli Draw Blanks in Europa League; Porto Wins With Late Goal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-17T23:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/liverpool-napoli-are-held-0-0-in-europa-league-porto-wins-with-late-goal.html
Liverpool and Napoli were held to
scoreless draws in their opening games in the Europa League
round of 32, as Porto, Young Boys and Spartak Moscow won with
late goals.  Three-time champion Liverpool failed to get an attempt on
target last night against  Sparta Prague , while goalkeeper Pepe Reina saved late from Leony Kweuke to preserve the draw.  “We’d rather have been more offensive than we were but
circumstances dictated things with the players we had
available,” Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish told his team’s
website. ‘Nil-nil is not the best result we could have got but
it’s not the worst either.’’  Napoli, second in  Italy ’s Serie A, also was unable to
manufacture an effort on goal at home to Villarreal, while
goalkeeper Morgan De Sanctis knocked away Borja Valero’s shot
for the visiting team in the final minute.  The return matches in the first knockout round of European
soccer’s second-tier club competition will be played Feb. 22-24.  Porto, the 2003 champion, beat two-time winner Sevilla 2-1
on Fredy Guarin’s 85th minute goal; Emmanuel Mayuka scored in
stoppage time to give  Young Boys  a 2-1 win over 2008 champion
Zenit St. Petersburg; and Spartak Moscow won 3-2 at Basel on
Zhano Ananidze’s injury-time score.  Ajax beat Anderlecht 3-0 in a matchup of former champions
in  Belgium , while Franco Jara’s goal with nine minutes remaining
gave Benfica a 2-1 comeback win at home to Stuttgart.    Bayer Leverkusen  won 4-0 at Metalist Kharkiv,  FC Twente 
beat Rubin Kazan 2-0, Dynamo Kiev won 4-1 at Besiktas,  Lech
Poznan  topped Braga 1-0 and CSKA Moscow beat PAOK Salonika 1-0.  Matias Fernandez’s goal in the final minute gave Sporting
Lisbon a 1-1 draw with Rangers in Glasgow, Wilfred Bouma and Ola
Toivonen scored in the final six minutes to earn PSV Eindhoven a
2-2 draw at Lille and Paris Saint-Germain drew 2-2 at BATE
Borisov on Peguy Luyindula’s 89th minute score.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  