-- 
Ivory Coast Needs Protests to End Vote Impasse, Premier Says

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-02-17T19:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/ivory-coast-needs-protests-to-end-vote-impasse-premier-says.html
An  African Union  panel to resolve
the political impasse in Ivory Coast won’t create terms
acceptable to both candidates who claim victory in November’s
presidential election, said  Guillaume Soro , the prime minister
in a government named by  Alassane Ouattara .  The only way to resolve the crisis is for citizens of the
divided country to organize protests similar to the 18 days of
demonstrations that led to the ousting of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11, Soro said in Senegal’s capital, Dakar,
today.    Laurent Gbagbo , who was the incumbent candidate in the
election, has refused to step down since the country’s electoral
board and the international community recognized rival Ouattara
as the winner of its Nov. 28 election.  Soro said the Forces Nouvelles, a rebel army that controls
the country’s north, are “ready to help” bring down the
government of Gbagbo, who has had his opponent’s administration
barricaded within an Abidjan hotel while ignoring calls from the  United Nations  and the African Union to concede the vote.  “We will not be fighting independently,” Soro said,
adding he had seen a survey that estimated 63 percent of
government soldiers under Gbagbo had voted for Ouattara. “We
will join with that 63 percent of the national army. We will
organize one united army, and that’s what we’re in the process
of doing,” he said.  Soro’s remarks followed comments by South African Foreign
Affairs Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane that the results of the
election were “inconclusive,” and that the South African
government has “no favorite” in the power struggle.  The South African government isn’t in a position to lead
the resolution of the Ivorian crisis, Soro said.  “The issue of  Ivory Coast  belongs to Ecowas,” he said,
referring to the Economic Community of West African States.  More than 500 people, particularly Ouattara supporters,
have died in post-election violence, Soro said.  If Gbagbo is allowed to benefit from the impasse, Ivory
Coast will become an “oil stain” undermining the 17 elections
that he said African countries will hold this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via the Accra newsroom at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 