-- 
Ivory Coast Banks, Stock Exchange Close Amid Bank Run

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-02-17T17:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/ivory-coast-banks-exchange-close-people-rush-to-withdraw-cash.html
Ivory Coast ’s financial system is
grinding to a halt with banks closing and the stock market
suspended, sparking a run on the lenders left open as the West
African nation’s political crisis drags on.    Standard Chartered Plc ,  Citigroup Inc .,  BNP Paribas  SA and
Societe Generale SA have all closed their units in the world’s
top cocoa producer because of security fears after a disputed
Nov. 28 vote left the country with two rival administrations.
Bank Atlantique Cote D’Ivoire, the country’ second-biggest bank,
said on its website that it has suspended its operations.  The Central Bank of West African States has demanded banks
in the region halt all transactions with its agencies in Ivory
Coast after the offices were seized by  Laurent Gbagbo , the
incumbent president.  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of the election, has also called on companies
to stop paying taxes to Gbagbo’s administration and told coffee
and cocoa shippers to halt exports for one month in a bid to
starve Gbagbo of funds.  “This is a significant setback for Gbagbo’s
administration,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging market
strategist at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “The financial system has virtually come to a
standstill, which is likely to erode the regime’s base of
support going forward, especially if public and private sector
salaries are not serviced later this month.”  Gbagbo’s administration will take “judicial proceedings”
against the local units of BNP and Citigroup for shutting their
local branches, the Justice Ministry said on Feb. 15. That may
further alienate global investors after the government defaulted
on $2.3 billion of Eurobonds this month.  Long Lines  Societe General and BNP together hold about a third of all
deposits in Ivory Coast, according to data from the Professional
Association of Banks and Financial Establishments of  Ivory
Coast .  Clients formed long lines at the banks that were left open
in the commercial capital of Abidjan today. About 200 people
were crammed into the foyer of Ecobank Transnational Inc., with
a queue running out onto the street.  “It’s getting difficult as we don’t know what will happen
next with the other banks,” Aissata Diomande, a 39-year-old
lawyer in the line, said. “I’m personally convinced that all
the other banks will close one by one. I’m trying now to
withdraw some cash firstly to take care of my family.”  No Liquidity  Abou Traore, a 31-year-old police officer, said he tried to
close his account and withdraw all his money at a branch of
SGBCI, the unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale  in Ivory Coast. The
lender denied the request, he said, “because it doesn’t have
enough liquidity.” The gate to a cash machine outside its main
branch was also locked.  Banque Internationale pour l’Afrique Occidentale wasn’t
serving waiting customers today.  “Given the increasingly challenging operating environment
in the Ivory Coast, we have decided to temporarily suspend our
operations there until it is safe to reopen,” Shaun Gamble, a
London-based spokesman at  Standard Chartered , said by e-mail
yesterday.  Gbagbo’s administration said the bank closures wouldn’t
stop it paying government employees for February. “There is no
risk the salaries will not be paid,” Budget Minister Justin Kone Katina said in remarks broadcast on Radiodiffusion
Television Ivorienne today.  In Default  The Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres, where
companies from eight West African nations trade their shares,
was closed “until further notice” following the Feb. 9 seizure
of its offices by Gbagbo’s administration, according to a
statement issued Feb. 14 in Ouagadougou,  Burkina Faso . Gbagbo
called the move to halt trading on the market “void,”
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The nation failed to make a $29 million interest payment on
its Eurobonds on Jan. 31 after a grace period, prompting the
London Club group of commercial bank creditors to declare an
“event of default” on Feb. 1.  The 2.5 percent note maturing in December 2032, sold in
April 2010, fell to a record low of 37.09 cents on the dollar on
Jan. 28, according to Bloomberg data. The bond traded at 38.833
cents today.  Ivory Coast’s economy, once the second-biggest in West
Africa after  Nigeria , may contract in the first half of the year
as the crisis deepens, Gadio and other Standard Bank researchers
said last month. The European Union levied trade and travel
sanctions on Gbagbo, his supporters, and institutions that aided
his bid to stay in power last month.  Violence and Negotiations  At least 300 people have been killed in post-election
violence, according to the  United Nations . Ouattara remains
holed up in the Golf Hotel in Abidjan, where he is protected by
UN peacekeepers. Gbagbo retains control over the army, state
television and over public institutions.  The UN yesterday authorized the deployment of three more
infantry companies and one aviation unit, including three armed
helicopters, for its peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast,
according to  Deutsche Presse-Agentur .  South African President  Jacob Zuma  will visit the country
on Feb. 21 as part of attempts by the  African Union  to resolve
the political stalemate,  South Africa ’s International Relations
Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane told reporters in  Cape Town 
today.  “We hold no brief for any faction in Ivory Coast,” she
said. “From the past 10 days I have been receiving delegations
from both sides. Both sides have confirmed that they believe
South Africa is an honest broker.”  On Dec. 8, South Africa’s government issued a statement
urging Gbagbo to step down, after the AU recognized his rival as
president. Nkoana-Mashabane declined to say whether South Africa
still recognized Ouattara as Ivory Coast’s rightful leader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 