-- 
Jailed Oil Tycoon Khodorkovsky Is ‘Perfect Martyr’: Interview

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/jailed-oil-tycoon-khodorkovsky-is-perfect-martyr-in-film-interview.html
“Khodorkovsky,” a documentary
about the former billionaire chief of Yukos Oil Co., grabbed
headlines even before its premiere at the  Berlin Film Festival 
when thieves stole it from the director’s Berlin apartment.  It was the second attempt to steal the movie, according to
Cyril Tuschi, who has been working on it for five years. Funded
by German television, the film portrays  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ,
47, as a man who has evolved, as the press release puts it,
“from a perfect socialist to a perfect capitalist and finally,
in a Siberian prison, becoming a perfect martyr.”  Tuschi scored interviews with Khodorkovsky’s first wife,
his mother, his son, accomplices and the man himself, who has
been in jail since 2003 and has been sentenced to stay there
until 2017. They paint a picture of a charismatic, authoritative
Russian who ran afoul of another charismatic, authoritative
Russian. Tuschi, 42, says it was the man and the dynamics of his
relationship with  Vladimir Putin  that drew him.  “Maybe it’s a romantic projection, but I saw through
Khodorkovsky that people can change,” Tuschi said in an
interview in Berlin. He said he still hasn’t heard anything from
police investigating the break-in.  His film skates over the murky 1990s, an era when
Khodorkovsky was becoming  Russia ’s richest man, founding a bank
called Menatep, grabbing stakes in companies, and, along with
other oligarchs, pushing the government to create a regulatory
and tax framework that benefited them.  Yukos Transformation  At the beginning of the last decade, he changed tack,
transforming Yukos, then Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
into a global operation. He attracted foreign investors, adopted
U.S. accounting standards and Yukos shares soared.  Yet he also began supporting parties that opposed Putin and
sought to break the state’s monopoly on oil pipelines. In short,
he challenged Putin’s authority.  Tuschi’s film shows footage from a meeting between Putin
and business leaders in 2003. Khodorkovsky asked a question
about corruption at the Kremlin. Putin snarled back that Yukos’s
taxes needed examining.  Interviewees say that may have been the moment Putin
snapped. Yukos was hit with a $3.4 billion tax bill that year.
Khodorkovsky landed in jail, where he’s serving time for fraud
and  tax evasion . In December last year, he got a second
conviction, this time on charges of oil embezzlement. Tuschi
interviewed him after that verdict from a cage in the court.  Impossible Theft  Laughing at the “absurdity” of the ruling, Khodorkovsky
says it would be impossible to steal the quantity of oil he was
accused of taking.  Asked why he didn’t flee Russia before his arrest in 2003,
he shrugs. “Naive ideas about justice?” he says.  Interviewees speculate on why Khodorkovsky didn’t flee, as
some of his business partners did. The most interesting theory
comes from Christian Michel, a former Khodorkovsky adviser. He
says the one-time billionaire may want to “redeem himself”
through jail time to be in a position to forge a political
career when he finally emerges.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said after
Khodorkovsky’s second verdict that it “raises serious questions
about selective prosecution -- and about the rule of law being
overshadowed by political considerations.”  Different Perceptions  Yet in contrast to the outrage of Western observers and
Russian expatriates, Tuschi’s film shows ordinary Russians
accusing Khodorkovsky of robbing their country and welcoming his
imprisonment. Why are perceptions of the former oligarch so
different at home and abroad?  “Russian people were brought up with the sense that all
rich people are bad, being rich is a sin,” Tuschi says.  That seems too simple. One shadow hanging over the film and
never really explored is Putin’s insinuation that Khodorkovsky
was implicated in the 1998 murder of Nefteyugansk mayor Vladimir
Petukhov. Why wasn’t Khodorkovsky charged with murder if Putin
is so convinced he was involved?  “Maybe because they don’t have enough evidence,” said
Tuschi. “Or maybe they fear that if they bring up stuff from
this time then they will all drown in it, all Russia’s elite.”  Or maybe Putin is holding something in reserve.
Khodorkovsky’s lawyer Yury Schmidt said on Jan. 13 that he
“wouldn’t be surprised” if prosecutors file murder charges
against his client, even if it’s “irrational.”  For more information on the Berlin Film Festival, go to
 http://www.berlinale.de/en .  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 