-- 
Jamie Dimon’s ‘Biggest Disaster’ Is Waiting: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/jamie-dimon-s-biggest-disaster-is-waiting-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., has harsh words for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . They are “the biggest disasters of all time,”
Dimon told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission last fall,
according to his just-released interview.  Along with others, Dimon greatly exaggerates the role
Fannie and Freddie played in the financial crisis, a theme my
MIT colleague,  Daron Acemoglu , has written about with great
clarity.  Too many bankers assert some version of the refrain: Fannie
Mae made me do it. As the FCIC’s  report  makes clear, it was the
private sector that led us into the financial crisis by making
massive subprime bets and then using complex derivatives deals
to magnify the downside risks.  Nevertheless, Dimon makes a good point in the sense that
Fannie and Freddie became too powerful politically, had too
little equity relative to their debt levels and took on reckless
amounts of risk. They blew themselves up at great cost to
taxpayers.  Who are the government sponsored enterprises today? Which
entities are too big to fail, in the eyes of lawmakers and
regulators, and therefore are receiving implicit, no-cost
government guarantees?  The answer is our largest bank holding companies such as
JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank in terms of assets behind  Bank of America Corp . This point is made in the latest quarterly
report from  Neil Barofsky , the special inspector-general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Flawed Metrics  Who has an incentive to increase debt relative to equity in
really big ways? Again, it’s the largest banks. The executives
in these companies are paid based on their return on equity --
and the easiest way to increase that is to add leverage. Of
course, this increases returns only when times are good. It also
increases the potential losses when markets tumble. In other
words, greater leverage increases risk.  But the global executives who congregated at Davos,  Switzerland , a few weeks ago were uniformly optimistic, and
further encouraged by cheerleading from Dimon and his financial
industry colleagues.  The government’s best intentions notwithstanding, there is
no way bank executives will ever be compensated on a properly
risk-adjusted basis. In fact,  research  by economists Sanjai
Bhagat and Brian Bolton shows that top private-sector bankers
know when to cash out: before all the suckers get crushed. And
it is cash that bank CEOs get -- the chief executives of the 14
largest U.S. financial companies received cash inflow worth $2.6
billion between 2000 and 2008.  High Leverage  If shareholders are protected from being wiped out by the
implicit too-big-to-fail guarantee, they should welcome the
arrival of additional leverage as the economy improves. In fact,
as the latest quarterly earnings results appear, the financial
press has started to ask Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other
banks why they don’t increase their leverage even more.  Top bankers are also pressing hard for the right to
increase dividend payments. That’s effectively a transfer from
creditors and taxpayers tomorrow (because of the guarantee) to
shareholders today.  Dimon also wants JPMorgan to become more global, especially
by expanding more into emerging markets. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  endorsed this approach in an interview he gave
to the New Republic, effectively arguing that we should want
big, highly leveraged U.S. banks to make large bets on highly
volatile emerging markets.  With Geithner firmly entrenched at the Treasury Department
and with Bill Daley, former senior lobbyist at JPMorgan, now
Barack Obama’s chief of staff, Dimon has all the political cover
he needs.  No Progess  Dimon himself has argued that we can’t deal with too-big-
to-fail until we have a way to manage the orderly liquidation of
big banks. Yet even with the Dodd-Frank overhaul enacted, we
still have no process for handling the failure of a big cross-
border bank like JPMorgan.  There is no framework -- either through the courts or
directly between governments -- to deal with such a collapse,
other than through a Lehman-type bankruptcy. So when a big bank
next gets into trouble, the choice will be between allowing a
meltdown, with presumably awful financial consequences, and
providing a bailout, which can have big fiscal impact.  Cautionary Tale  Recent experiences in Ireland should warn us all against
the we’ll-do-a-bailout-when-needed approach advocated by
Geithner. Three big banks built up a combined balance sheet
worth about two times Ireland’s gross domestic product. They
speculated heavily in commercial real estate, financed by
borrowing from others in the euro zone. The failure and
resulting bailout ruined the fiscal solvency of the Irish
government and forced officials to ask for a rescue led by the  International Monetary Fund .  As Dimon told the FCIC in October 2010, referring to Fannie
and Freddie: “That one was an accident waiting to happen,” and
“We all knew about it, we all worried about it, no one did
anything about it.” He will probably say the same thing after
the next crisis involving government-sponsored enterprise -- but
next time the term will refer the likes of Goldman Sachs, Bank
of America, Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Morgan Stanley
and his own JPMorgan.  (Simon Johnson, co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown” and a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  