-- 
Japan's Bonds Rise Most in Four Weeks on U.S. Housing Concern, BOJ Minutes

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-02-18T06:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-on-speculation-u-s-data-will-show-home-prices-fell.html
Japan’s bonds rose the most in four
weeks before a U.S. report that economists said will show  home
prices  dropped the most in a year, supporting demand for the
safety of government debt.  Bond futures completed a weekly gain after minutes of the
Bank of Japan’s January meeting showed policy board members
cautioned about the market’s excessive optimism toward the  U.S.
economy . Bonds also rose following gains in U.S. Treasuries
yesterday on reports Iran was sending two warships through the  Suez Canal .  “It doesn’t seem like problems in the U.S. housing market
have been solved,” said Hisakazu Amano, who helps oversee $29
billion at T&D Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Institutional
investors, including banks, are more likely to buy Japanese
bonds, unless demand for loans from businesses increases.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell four basis
points to 1.295 percent as of 3:23 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.2 percent security due December 2020 climbed 0.345 yen to
99.172 yen. The decline in yield was the biggest since Jan. 20.  Ten-year futures for March delivery jumped 0.33 to 139.02
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They have
advanced 0.20 this week, snapping two weeks of losses.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 2.3 percent in December from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the Feb. 22 report. That would be the
biggest decline since December 2009.  ‘Too Optimistic’  Given the U.S. “economy continued to be burdened with
balance-sheet adjustments, the prevailing view among market
participants about the economic outlook might be somewhat too
optimistic,” BOJ policy makers said in the minutes of their Jan.
24-25 meeting released today in Tokyo.    Iran  is arranging with Egyptian officials to have two of
its warships use the Suez Canal, Iranian state-run Press TV said.
The Suez Canal Authority said no Iranian naval vessels had been
granted permission. Ten-year Treasury yields rose five basis
points yesterday.  The gain in bonds was tempered on speculation Japan’s
ruling party will fail to push through measures to reduce the
world’s biggest public debt.  Sixteen lawmakers in the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
intend to distance themselves from Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and
are opposed to his plan to push for an increase in the 5 percent
consumption tax, according to a statement from their leader
Koichiro Watanabe. The government aims to outline its social
welfare and tax policies by June.  DPJ Not United  “The incident has revealed that even the ruling party
wasn’t united on tax and welfare policies,” said  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
“I see a chance that bond yields will rise to reflect concerns
about Japan’s finances.”  The split in the DPJ underscores the political hold of
former leader  Ichiro Ozawa , who is on trial for campaign finance
violations. Many of the group’s members are loyal to Ozawa, said  Yasunori Sone , a professor of political science at  Keio
University  in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 