-- 
Japanese Bonds Rise Before U.S. Jobs Report, Snapping Three-Day Decline

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-02-17T07:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/japanese-bonds-rise-before-u-s-jobs-report-snapping-three-day-decline.html
Japan’s 10-year bonds rose for the
first time in four days before a U.S. report forecast to show a
sluggish job market is weighing on the economic recovery.  Futures rebounded from a near two-month low as a technical
indicator that traders use signaled the contract was poised to
change direction. Investors should buy Japanese bonds because
the increase in yield is about to come to an end, Mizuho
Securities Co. said.  “I don’t think the  U.S. economy  will continue to recover
smoothly,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin
Research Institute Co. in Tokyo. “Though a series of economic
indicators point to a further recovery, if they run out, bond
yields are likely to fall.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond declined one basis
point to 1.335 percent as of 3:41 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.2
percent security due December 2020 rose 0.086 yen to 98.827.  Ten-year bond futures for March delivery advanced 0.14 to
138.69 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
contracts fell to 138.32 on Feb. 9, the lowest since Dec. 15.  The 14-day relative strength index for bond futures
decreased to 35 yesterday, approaching the 30 level that some
traders see as a sign prices are set to gain.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  rose to 400,000 last week from 383,000
the prior week, according a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before today’s report.  ‘Disappointment’  Federal Reserve officials “continued to express
disappointment in both the pace and the unevenness of the
improvements in labor markets,” while also judging the recovery
to be on a “firmer footing,” the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said in minutes of its January meeting, released yesterday.  Mizuho recommends buying Japanese  government bonds  with
maturities of four years and seven to eight years, as the yield
run-up is “in its final stage,”  Tetsuya Miura , chief market
analyst in Tokyo at the brokerage unit of Japan’s third-largest
bank by market value, wrote in a report today.  The gain in bonds was tempered as rising stocks reduced
demand for government debt. The Topix index of Japanese shares
advanced for a ninth day, the longest winning streak since
August 2009.  “Momentum remains upward for bond yields as there isn’t a
change in external factors, including rising stock prices that
reflect the recovery in the economy,” said Atsushi Ito, a
Tokyo-based senior rate strategist at UBS AG.  Overseas Investors  Overseas investors sold 259.3 billion yen ($3.1 billion)
more Japanese bonds than they bought in the week ended Feb. 11,
a report from the Ministry of Finance showed today. That was the
biggest net sale since the period ended Jan. 7.  Japanese bonds have lost 0.7 percent this month, according
to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit. They slid 0.6 percent in January.  “There is a chance that 10-year yields at 1.5 percent,
which I think is the higher end of the expected range by the end
of June, will come in sight,”  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist
at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., wrote in a note to clients today.  Mizuho, UBS and Tokai Tokyo are among the 24 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 