-- 
Jawbone’s Headset Is Like Xbox for Your Ear: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-02-17T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/jawbone-s-headset-is-like-an-xbox-for-your-ear-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
If I could, I’d completely banish
buttons from wireless headsets. Nothing makes me feel clumsier
than trying to answer or redial a call on a 2-inch piece of
plastic with my fat fingers.  The  Jawbone  people seem to have heard my plea. Their latest
headset, the Era, introduces a new control system that reduces
the fumble factor considerably.  Jawbone has long been known for its ability to isolate your
voice from ambient noise, resulting in some of the clearest-
sounding calls you can make with a headset. The new Era packs in
a bunch of additional features and a remarkable amount of
technology for such a small package, helping justify its premium
$129.99 price.  The most important of these, and what sets the Era apart,
is an accelerometer. That’s the same motion-sensing technology
that knows when your Samsung smartphone or Apple iPad is turned
from vertical to horizontal, and reorients the screen
accordingly.  The  Era  uses its accelerometer and built-in software to
help it execute tasks based on how you handle it. Jawbone calls
these actions ShakeShake and TapTap. To pair the Era to your
Bluetooth-enabled smartphone, for example, you shake it four
times. Two shakes answers a call when you aren’t wearing the
Era. When you do have it on, tapping it twice answers and ends
calls, or switches between them.  It’s sort of like a Wii or Xbox Kinect controller for your
ear.  Obvious Concern  The obvious concern with a motion-sensing interface is that
the device will misinterpret accidental movements as purposeful,
and do things you don’t want it to do. In this case, I didn’t
have a problem; the Era’s software was smart enough to tell when
I was issuing a command, and when I was just brushing up against
or adjusting the earpiece. Jawbone hasn’t completely banished
physical controls -- there’s still a talk button -- but you’ll
have less need to use it.  I never have an easy time getting a headset to fit right,
but the Era comes with enough options -- four standard-type
earbuds, three that include a u-shaped tab to enhance fit, and
an optional hook that fits over the ear -- that I eventually
found a workable configuration. Besides comfort, the key is to
position the headset so it actually touches your cheek and
points at your mouth, which results in the cleanest sound for
whomever you’re talking to.  Loud and Clear  Things sound pretty good on your end, too. Calls were
generally loud and clear, and the Era marks a significant
improvement from previous Jawbone models for music and game
sound effects. Using it with the Pandora Internet radio app on
my smartphone, Linda Ronstadt’s version of “Tumbling Dice”
sounded terrific, while I heard every engine roar in  Electronic
Arts Inc .’s “Need for Speed Shift” as I finished in second
place on my iPad.  As with the $99 Jawbone Icon, introduced last year, you can
download additional features and functions in the form of apps
from the company’s MyTalk  website . Among other options, you can
choose the voice that greets you with information on battery
life and that announces incoming calls; lately I’ve been using
“The Hero,” a laid-back dude who likes to drop his “g”s. Or
install an app that lets you record memos via the headset to use
with Jawbone’s “Thoughts” service, which lets you send voice
messages to groups of contacts.  The process of downloading these features can be a little
tedious. You have to plug the headset into a computer via USB,
then log into the MyTalk website, choose your apps and wait as
long as five minutes while they install.  Still, those with the patience can make the Era do some
neat tricks. For instance, on the website, you can enter the
names and numbers of as many as 20 contacts, most of whom will
then be announced in your ear when they call not by a
synthesized robotic voice, but by a natural, human one. That’s
because Jawbone hired an actress to record thousands of the most
common names, which are then mixed and matched on the fly.  So if Sally Smith calls, she’ll get a natural-sounding
introduction. There are, of course, limits; if you get a call
from me, expect the robot.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 