-- 
Jordan to Seek Bids for Reactor Operator Next Week

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-02-17T17:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/jordan-to-seek-bids-for-reactor-operator-next-week-update1-.html
Jordan will seek bids from  GDF Suez 
SA, Rosatom Corp., Datang International Power Generation Co. and
Kansai Electric Power Co. to operate and invest in a nuclear
reactor in the kingdom, Energy Minister Khalid Touqan said.  “The requests for proposals will be sent to the four
companies next week,” he said in an interview today in Amman,
where he was holding a news conference.  Jordan, which consists mostly of desert and relies almost
entirely on imports for its energy needs, is turning to nuclear
power to meet increasing electricity demand. The kingdom plans
to build at least one nuclear reactor by 2019 and has signed
nuclear cooperation agreements with 12 countries, the most
recent of which was today with  Turkey .  The Jordan Atomic Energy Commission has preselected
possible technologies from Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd.,  Russia ’s ZAO Atomstroyexport and Paris-based Atmea, a venture
between  France ’s Areva SA and  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd .
of Japan. Jordan will select the preferred technology supplier
for the atomic reactor by the end of August, Touqan said at the
news conference.  “This will be followed by a six-month exclusive stage of
negotiation and discussions with the preferred bidder,” he
said. “The final selection of technology will be made by the
end of this year.”  Jordan will announce in March the results of a request for
proposal for a financial adviser to help the government on the
nuclear project, Touqan said.  Preferred Site  Suez-Tractebel SA, a Brussels-based unit of GDF Suez, is
evaluating the preferred site for the nuclear reactor in Majdal,
an area about 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of Amman, he said.  “We are considering Majdal site, northeast of Jordan, as a
candidate site where we can use the treated waste water flowing
from the Khirbet Al Samra Wastewater Treatment Plant for
cooling,” he said. “Preliminary investigations indicate
positive findings at the Majdal site.”  Areva SA, the world’s largest maker of reactors, signed
agreements with Jordan last year for the protection of planned
nuclear installations and for the exploration and mining of
uranium. Jordan estimates it has 70,000 tons of uranium
deposits, based on studies the National Resources Authority made
in the 1990s. Areva will announce in February the results of its
own studies of uranium reserves, Touqan said Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  