-- 
Kan's Debt Reduction Is Threatened by Japanese Ruling Party Rebellion Plan

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-02-18T08:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/kan-s-debt-reduction-threatened-by-ruling-party-rebellion-plan.html
Sixteen lawmakers in Japan’s ruling
party vowed to unite to oppose the policies of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , threatening his efforts to win approval for budget
legislation and rein in public debt.  The lawmakers are distancing themselves from Kan while
remaining in the  Democratic Party  of Japan, according to a faxed
statement sent to reporters yesterday by their leader, Koichiro
Watanabe. The group is against Kan’s plan to push for an
increase in the country’s 5 percent  consumption tax  and plans to
form a new voting bloc, the statement said.  The potential revolt could further hurt Kan’s popularity
and undermine his ability to pass budget-related bills. Without
the DPJ lawmaker’s backing Kan is unlikely to win a two-thirds
majority in the lower house needed to override opponents, said  Yasunori Sone , a professor of political science at  Keio
University  in Tokyo.  “They are aiming to shake the Kan administration to weaken
it,” Sone said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Kan has been unable to persuade opposition lawmakers to
agree on financing bills for his record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1
trillion) budget that begins in April, 44.3 trillion yen of
which must be funded by  government bonds .  Rising Criticism  More DPJ lawmakers criticized Kan’s policies today. Former
Internal Affairs Minister Kazuhiro Haraguchi said in a interview
in the monthly magazine Nippon that he wants to unite with those
in the party opposed to a tax increase. A separate group of nine
legislators called a press conference to request that Kan keep
the DPJ’s 2009 election pledge not to raise taxes.  “I don’t understand their behavior at all,” Kan told
reporters yesterday in remarks shown on public broadcaster NHK.
“I want to make the utmost effort to enact the budget and its
related bills because they are very important for people’s
lives.”  Kan’s approval rating dropped 3.5 points from last month to
17.8 percent, according to a Jiji Press survey published
yesterday. About 41 percent of respondents said Kan should
dissolve the lower house and call an election, with 16 percent
saying they favored his early resignation. The Feb. 10-13 survey
of 2,000 voters didn’t provide a margin of error.  ‘Invalid’  The DPJ will not accept the rebel group’s move to oppose
Kan, Secretary-General Katsuya Okada told reporters yesterday in
Tokyo.  “Their attempt to break away is invalid,” Okada said.
“It’s only a matter of course that they must follow party rules
as long as they’re party members.”  Failure to pass the budget may force Kan, who took office
in June, to dissolve the lower house of parliament, triggering
an election. Without the bills the government’s revenue
shortfall could hurt an economy already threatened by rising
welfare costs and deflation.    Standard & Poor’s  last month cut the country’s debt rating
to AA-, the fourth-highest level. The agency cited the DPJ’s
lack of “coherent strategy” in dealing with a debt approaching
200 percent of gross domestic product and the possibility that
the funding bills won’t be authorized.  The split also underscores the hold former leader  Ichiro Ozawa  holds on the DPJ. Many of the group’s members are loyal to
Ozawa, who is on trial for campaign finance violations, Sone
said.  Japan’s ruling party earlier this week proposed suspending
Ozawa until the end of his trial. Ozawa, 68, was indicted on Jan.
31 in a case that has led to the trial of three of former aides
for under-reporting 545 million yen in income for his fund-
raising group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net 
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  