-- 
KB Home May Spend $700 Million on Land This Year, Mezger Says

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/kb-home-may-spend-700-million-on-land-with-expansion-in-california-texas.html
KB Home, the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, may spend $600
million to $700 million on new land this year as it expands its
community count, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said.  The company is buying properties close to job centers and
coastal regions, betting that these areas will recover more
quickly from the housing slump, he said. Most of its purchases
will be in  California  and Texas.  “If the markets firm up and are better we’ll spend more,”
Mezger said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . “If the markets get more difficult,
we’ll spend less.”  Builders have been hurt by an  unemployment rate  that
averaged 9.6 percent last year and competition from lower-priced
foreclosures. Construction of single-family homes fell 1 percent
to a 413,000 rate in January from the prior month, the fewest
since May 2009, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Builder
confidence stagnated in February, the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index showed Feb. 15.    KB Home  has said it plans to open 70 new communities in the
first half of this year and increase its average community count
for 2011 by 25 percent. The new projects will help the company
increase profitability because land prices have fallen in the
past few years, Mezger said.  Local Governments  The company has acquired some raw land, particularly in
California, as finished lots in prime locations become harder to
find, Mezger said. One cost-saving strategy includes negotiating
lower development fees with local governments that are eager to
replace revenue lost after the housing bubble popped, he said.  “They want new homes,” Mezger said of the cities. “They
want communities finished that were half-built and they need the
revenue base.”  KB Home has 132 communities in 30 markets, including
California, Texas,  Florida , Nevada, Arizona, Georgia,  North
Carolina  and the Washington metro area. It invested $550 million
in land last year.  Locations for communities opening this year include Austin
and San Antonio in Texas, and Orange County and coastal Los
Angeles County in California, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  