-- 
Kohn, Cohrs Appointed to Bank of England Financial Committee

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-17T14:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/kohn-cohrs-appointed-to-bank-of-england-financial-committee.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  appointed former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  to a Bank of England panel set up to help prevent a
repeat of the financial crisis.  Kohn was named as one of four external members of the
interim Financial Policy Committee along with former Deutsche
Bank AG official Michael Cohrs, former Confederation of British
Industry Director General  Richard Lambert  and former Bank of
England director Alastair Clark. They join five Bank of England
officials including Governor  Mervyn King  plus  Adair Turner  and
Hector Sants of the Financial Services Authority.  The government today laid out its plans for the biggest
institutional overhaul since 1997, under which the FSA will be
abolished and most of its powers returned to the  Bank of
England . Osborne pledged that the Financial Policy Committee,
tasked with monitoring systemic risks, won’t hinder the economy.  “The FPC will not be able to take action which would be
likely to have a significant adverse effect on the capacity of
the financial sector to contribute to the growth of the U.K.
economy,” the Treasury said in a statement. Osborne said he had
picked “the right people to do the job.”  The government will consult on its plans with the industry
before introducing a bill in Parliament later this year, the
Treasury said.  The Financial Policy Committee will aim to identify and
monitor risk, check resilience of the system and monitor
unsustainable levels of leverage. It will also keep an eye on
credit growth and debt. It will have the power only to recommend
action until its status is approved by Parliament in 2012.  Financial Crisis  Kohn, 67, who retired from the Fed on Sept. 1, served as
the top monetary-policy strategist for former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and, as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s chief lieutenant,
helped guide central bank efforts to stem the financial crisis,
including unprecedented emergency credit programs.  Kohn joined the Fed in 1970 and was vice chairman for four
years until June 2010, serving the last two months as a
governor.  Cohrs, 54, was co-head of  investment banking  at Deutsche
Bank until he retired last year after 15 years at the German
lender. He previously worked for a decade at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in  New York  and London. He was a member of the U.S.
Presidential Task Force on Market Mechanisms known as the
“Brady Commission” after the stock-market crash in October
1987. He is an American with an MBA from  Harvard University .  Lambert, 66, left the CBI, the largest U.K employers’
group, last month. He was a member of the Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee between 2003 and 2006 and was editor
of the Financial Times newspaper for 10 years before that.  Clark advised King during the financial crisis. Before that
he was executive director for financial stability at the central
bank for seven years.  Prudential Regulation Authority  The government consultation today also seeks views on the
Prudential Regulation Authority, the body that will be
responsible for overseeing all deposit-taking institutions,
insurers and investment banks and effectively replaces the FSA.  Its board will be chaired by King, while FSA Chief
Executive  Hector Sants  will run its operations and become a
deputy governor for prudential regulation at the bank.  Under the plans, the FPC may be granted powers to require
the new regulator to conduct stress tests on banks to monitor
risks as part of an overhaul of financial supervision.  The PRA will require firms to comply “with the spirit as
well as the letter” of laws to “tackle attempts by firms to
circumvent the intended purpose” of the rules. Lenders may be
given only “limited grounds” to appeal the decisions.  The government is also seeking the views of the financial
industry on the creation of the Financial Conduct Authority, a
body that will seek to protect consumers and police the
integrity of markets.  Too Late for King  The almost three-year period taken to enact the legislation
suggests King may not get the chance to formally exercise the
powers outlined today. The bill to be introduced later this year
isn’t due to take effect until 2013, when King’s second five-
year term as governor expires.  The overhaul of financial regulation will give the Bank of
England more power than it has ever had in its 317-year history.
King and Osborne began working on the plans in June, a month
after the coalition government took office.  In the May 2010 coalition agreement, the Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats listed banking as their top priority after the
budget and taxes, saying the existing regulatory system is
“fundamentally flawed and needs to be replaced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  