-- 
N.Z. Budget Deficit Wider Than Forecast on Health

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-17T23:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/n-z-budget-deficit-wider-than-forecast-on-health-update1-.html
  New Zealand ’s budget deficit was
wider than the government’s forecast after earlier-than-expected
payments were made to district health boards, the Treasury
Department said.  The cash shortfall was NZ$13.18 billion ($10 billion) in
the six months ended Dec. 31, or NZ$555 million more than
forecast in December’s fiscal update, the  Treasury  said in a
statement released in Wellington today.  Finance Minister Bill English expects the deficit will be
NZ$15.6 billion in the year ending June 30 before beginning to
narrow, with a surplus targeted by 2015. The Treasury on Dec. 14
said a weaker outlook for economic growth would curb tax revenue
by about NZ$1.4 billion in the year through June compared with
forecasts in the May budget.  “Tax revenue was still behind budget 2010 forecasts,”
English said in an e-mailed statement. “This result reflects
the relatively flat economy in the latter part of 2010 and
reinforces the need for sound fiscal management.”  English last week said it was possible the economy was in
recession in the second half of last year after gross domestic
product shrank in the third quarter.  The Ministry of Health payments to local service providers
initially expected in January were made earlier, so the deficit
is likely to return toward the forecast track, the Treasury
said. While receipts from sales tax and deductions from workers
were higher than forecast in the six-month period, it is too
early to say whether that variance will persist for the full
year, it said.  The health board payments were NZ$849 million, today’s
statement’s showed. Tax receipts were NZ$426 million more than
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  