-- 
Irish Rescue Bank Recovers Funds in Sale of Dublin Office Tower to Google

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-17T11:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nama-brokers-sale-of-dublin-real-estate-to-google-repays-bonds.html
The agency set up to purge Ireland’s
banks of risky commercial real-estate loans said it will recover
all the taxpayer money that was invested in a Dublin office
tower being sold to  Google Inc .  The U.S. Internet search service agreed to purchase the 15-
story Montevetro building for 99.9 million euros ($136 million),
the property’s developer, Real Estate Opportunities Plc, said in
a statement today. Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency
will get back more than it paid for the loan backed by the
office building and additional funding advanced to REO to
complete it, NAMA said in a separate statement.  NAMA was established after the collapse of Ireland’s
property market saddled lenders with bad debts, forcing the
state to accept an 85 billion-euro rescue package last year. The
agency had acquired loans with a face value of 71.2 billion
euros for a price of 30.2 billion euros by the end of 2010. It
also approved advances of 592 million euros to fund developments
including Montevetro, NAMA said.  “It is a very small step along a very long road,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist with Dublin-based KBC Bank
Ireland. “It’s important we get transactions going and enable
visibility to rebuild the  property market .”  Delays in property transactions related to NAMA have hurt
the economy, according to Hughes. Ireland’s economy probably
contracted for a third year in 2010, as investment in building
and construction dropped by 32 percent, the central bank said
last month.  Taxpayer Benefit  The sale “will be seen as a very positive sign for the
future of the Irish commercial property market,” NAMA Chairman
Frank Daly said in the statement. “It is an excellent example
of NAMA’s ability to enhance the value of its assets for the
benefit of taxpayers.”  NAMA will repay 250 million euros of senior securities
known as NAMA bonds, a first for the agency, it said today.  The Montevetro tower is the tallest commercial building in
Dublin and has 210,000 square feet (19,510 square meters) of
prime  office space , Google said in a separate statement. The
purchase will help support future operations for the  Mountain
View , California-based company, which has its European
headquarters in Dublin.  Google Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  said in January
that the company plans to add more than 1,000 jobs in  Europe 
this year.  REO, owned by Irish millionaires Richard Barrett and John Ronan, won U.K. government approval this month to redevelop the
Battersea Power Station in  London . The company plans to build
3,400 homes and 330,000 square meters of commercial space on the
site. NAMA also owns loans secured by that project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  