-- 
NEA’s Kramlich Expects ‘Blockbuster’ Year for Technology IPOs

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-02-17T17:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nea-s-kramlich-expects-2011-to-be-a-blockbuster-year-for-technology-ipos.html
Dick Kramlich, a 42-year veteran of
the venture-capital industry, expects 2011 to be a
“blockbuster” year for initial public offerings among
technology companies.  “Over the next 12 months, we’re going to see something we
haven’t seen in the last 10 years, which is the evidence of
blockbuster IPOs,” said Kramlich, co-founder of  New Enterprise
Associates  in  Menlo Park , California, in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. There will be “half a dozen companies
that are going to command huge multiples,” he said.  Internet startups Facebook Inc., Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc. have achieved multibillion-dollar valuations in the private
secondary market, which took off in 2009 during the financial
crisis and worst two-year stretch for IPOs in at least 38 years.
LinkedIn Corp., which is valued at $2.5 billion on secondary
exchange  SharesPost Inc. , and Pandora Media Inc. filed to go
public in the past month.  The emergence of private secondary exchanges such as
SharesPost and SecondMarket Inc. has given startups an
additional two years to expand their businesses before going
public, Kramlich said. Trading of closely held companies may
jump 51 percent this year to $6.9 billion, according to Nyppex
LLC, a New York research and advisory services firm.  Goldman, Digital Sky  Investors such as  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have invested billions of dollars in
private companies, while SharesPost and SecondMarket have
facilitated smaller transactions. That’s let early investors and
employees cash out of some stock while keeping financial and
business details private.  “The idea of taking a little urgency out of it for the
founders and employees serves a valuable purpose,” Kramlich,
75, said in a separate interview. “You can afford to take
calculated risks that might be unwise in a fishbowl of a public
company,” he said.  NEA, which Kramlich helped start in the late 1970s, was the
first venture investor in Chicago-based Groupon three years ago,
when it was called  The Point . Groupon, the biggest website for
daily deals, sold a 10 percent stake to Digital Sky last year at
a $1.35 billion valuation. The company’s value soared to $4.75
billion last month, when firms including Andreessen Horowitz,  Greylock Partners  and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers invested
$950 million. Both of those investments included sales by
existing shareholders.  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said at a
conference last month in Munich that the company is considering
an IPO, though the chances of that happening this year are
“less than 100 percent.” Kramlich declined to comment on
Groupon.  Facebook, Groupon, Zynga  Facebook, the largest social-networking site, was valued at
$50 billion last month, when Goldman Sachs led an investment.
Zynga, the biggest maker of games on Facebook, is in talks to
raise capital from T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Fidelity
Investments at a valuation of close to $10 billion, two people
familiar with the matter said this week. Facebook, in  Palo Alto ,  California , and San Francisco-based Zynga have both sold
previous stakes to Digital Sky.  “A vacuum was created,” Kramlich said. “This gives
companies time to get their act together and show what they can
really do.”  Kramlich co-founded NEA with Chuck Newhall and Frank Bonsal. He began his venture career in 1969 at Arthur Rock & Co.
NEA raised a $2.48 billion fund in 2009, more than twice the
size of any venture fund raised since. It’s the firm’s 13th
fund, and Kramlich said it will be his last as a full-time
partner.  Among his most profitable investments were  Juniper Networks
Inc ., the second-largest maker of networking equipment, and
Macromedia Inc., which was acquired by Adobe Inc. in 2005.
Kramlich led NEA’s investment in Force10 Networks Inc., which
last year filed to raise as much as $144 million in an IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  