-- 
Nestle Beats Sales Estimates and Foresees 2011 Growth

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-02-17T07:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nestle-2010-sales-growth-beats-estimates-on-nespresso-digiorno-sales.html
  Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, reported 2010 sales growth that beat analysts’
estimates as consumers bought more Nespresso coffee capsules,
and forecast higher revenue and margins this year.  Sales rose 6.2 percent excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency shifts, the Vevey, Switzerland-based company said
today, compared with the 5.4 percent average estimate of eight
analysts. Nestle said it’s “confident” so-called organic
revenue will rise 5 percent to 6 percent in 2011. Profit last
year more than tripled, boosted by a one-time gain from selling
a stake in Alcon Inc, the company also reported.  “It’s clearly a better-than-expected result when many had
expected fourth-quarter numbers to decelerate,” said Jon Cox,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets with a “buy” rating on
the stock. “The outlook statement is reassuring.”  The Purina pet-food maker said it expects an improvement in
its operating margin excluding currency fluctuations this year,
meeting its long-term goal.  Nestle didn’t announce a new buyback program in the
statement. Marco Gulpers, an analyst at ING Financial Markets,
previously estimated Nestle may announce a 10 billion-franc
buyback, while Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel, said the food company might repurchase as much as 20
billion francs of additional stock. Nestle said it will raise
its dividend 16 percent to 1.85 francs a share.  Net income rose to 34.2 billion Swiss francs ($35.7
billion) from 10.4 billion francs in 2009.  Higher Prices  Price increases boosted sales growth by 1.6 percentage
points, the maker of KitKat bars and Lean Cuisine meals
indicated. Nestle gets about three-quarters of revenue from 30
brands that have sales exceeding 1 billion francs, giving it
more power than smaller rivals to pass higher commodity costs on
to consumers, according to ING’s Marco Gulpers.  “Nestle, with strong brands in traditionally resilient
categories such as instant coffee, petcare and confectionary, is
better positioned than most,” Alex Molloy, an analyst at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a report before the results.  Arabica coffee futures have soared 96 percent in the past
year, while wheat has gained 71 percent.  Kraft Foods Inc ., the
world’s second-largest food company, on Feb. 10 lowered its
full-year earnings forecast because of rising commodity costs,
while Unilever said increasing costs of raw materials would hit
profitability in 2011.  Hedging Policies  “We see Nestle commanding better pricing power than both
its key peers at present and we like the group’s over-exposure
to  North America  versus its peers,” Andy Smith, an analyst at
MF Global, wrote in a note before the results.  Nestle’s hedging policies help protect its margins, which
will probably cap input cost inflation at about 5 percent this
year even as the basket of commodities rises 12 percent,
according to  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura.  Nestle shares have gained about 2.6 percent in the past
year, giving the company a market value of about 181.7 billion
francs. Nestle ranks as  Europe ’s third-largest company by stock
market value after HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 