-- 
NetApp Shares Decline After Forecast Trails Estimates

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T21:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/netapp-drops-after-forecast-trails-estimates-ratings-lowered.html
  NetApp Inc ., a maker of data-storage
products, fell the most in three months on the Nasdaq Stock
Market after its profit forecast trailed estimates and analysts
cut their ratings on the shares.  Excluding some costs, earnings in the current quarter will
be 49 cents to 53 cents a share, Sunnyvale, California-based
NetApp said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had projected 54
cents, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company faces mounting competition from EMC Corp.,
International Business Machines Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co . and  Dell Inc ., which have all made data-storage acquisitions in the
past year. NetApp also is grappling with supply shortages, Chief
Financial Officer Steven Gomo said yesterday.  “We want to make sure we have all the supplies that we
need to meet customer demand,” Gomo said in an interview.  NetApp dropped $3.77, or 6.4 percent, to $54.77 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the biggest one-day decline since Nov. 17. The
stock is little changed in value this year.  At least three analysts cut their ratings on NetApp since
the earnings report. Piper Jaffray & Co.’s Troy Jensen
downgraded the stock to “neutral” from “overweight.” Paul Mansky at Canaccord Genuity Corp. lowered his rating to “hold”
from “buy,” and Craig-Hallum Capital Group’s Eric Martinuzzi
cut the shares to “accumulate” from “buy.”  Tighter Margins  NetApp is making less money on the products it sells. Gross
margin, the percentage of sales left after subtracting
manufacturing costs, will be 65 percent in the fiscal fourth
quarter, which ends in April. That compares with 65.5 percent in
the third quarter and 66.9 percent in the second quarter.  Fourth-quarter operating margin, another measure of
profitability, will narrow to 18.2 percent excluding one-time
costs, Gomo said. That’s a 1.2 percentage-point decline from the
third quarter and is 1.6 percentage points lower than in the
second quarter.  Net income in the fiscal third quarter rose 60 percent to
$172.5 million, or 42 cents a share, from $107.9 million, or 30
cents, a year earlier. Profit excluding some items was 52 cents,
exceeding the 50-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales rose 25 percent to $1.27 billion. Revenue this
quarter will be about $1.38 billion, the company predicted,
matching the average analyst estimate.  Third Place  NetApp, whose clients include  Oracle Corp . and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., sells hardware and software that let
companies more easily store, compress and access data.  It ranks third in the market for external computer-storage
systems, trailing EMC and IBM, according to third-quarter
figures by Gartner Inc., a research firm based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . HP is fourth, and Dell is fifth.  The industry is digesting a feast of acquisitions. In
September, HP agreed to buy storage-systems maker 3Par Inc. for
$2.35 billion, outbidding Dell, and IBM purchased Netezza Corp.
for $1.7 billion in November. EMC announced the acquisition of
Isilon Systems Inc. for $2.25 billion in November to gain video-
storage equipment. In December, Dell agreed to buy data-storage
company Compellent Technologies Inc. for $960 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 