-- 
Nexen Hires Bank of America to Seek Shale Gas Partners

-- B y   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-02-17T16:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nexen-hires-bank-of-america-to-seek-b-c-shale-gas-partners.html
  Nexen Inc . hired  Bank of America
Corp .’s investment banking unit to help it find partners to
develop shale-gas reserves in British Columbia, Chief Executive
Officer Marvin Romanow said.  The Horn River region of northern British Columbia has as
much natural gas as all of Alberta,  Canada ’s biggest energy-
producing region, Romanow said during a call with analysts
today. Nexen, based in Calgary, joins competitors such as  Encana
Corp ., which announced a C$5.4 billion ($5.5 billion) gas
development agreement with PetroChina Co. last week, in seeking
partners to help exploit fossil fuel reserves.  “We have a significant land position with significant
opportunities,” Romanow said during a conference call. A
possible pipeline to the Pacific may help gas producers open new
markets in the future, he said.  Nexen yesterday said fourth-quarter net income fell to
C$220 million, or 42 cents a share, from C$259 million, or 50
cents, in the year-earlier period. The company is “evaluating
options” on how to maintain its investment grade rating from
Moody’s Investors Service, Romanow said today.  “I think we can establish with the rating agencies that
our trends are going in the right direction,” he said, adding
that  oil prices  have risen and will help generate  cash flow  this
year.  Investment Grade  Moody’s said Dec. 7 it may cut Nexen to below investment-
grade from Baa3, citing the company’s 2011 investment plan,
production delays and its high debt level. A lower rating may
reduce the number of investors who are able to buy the company’s
debt, pushing up its borrowing costs.  Nexen holds almost two-thirds of the Long Lake oil sands
operation, which has failed to meet production targets since it
started in January 2009. Nexen’s partner,  Opti Canada Inc .,
which owns a 35 percent stake in the project, said Feb. 1 it
hired Lazard Freres & Co. to review a possible sale, merger or
other “alternatives.”  Nexen shares were down 2.2 percent to C$23.43 as of 10:50
a.m. on the Toronto stock exchange. The stock has gained 2.7
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  