-- 
NFL, Union Agree to Federal Mediation in an Attempt to Reach Labor Accord

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-02-17T22:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nfl-union-agree-to-federal-mediation-in-an-attempt-to-reach-labor-accord.html
A U.S. government mediator will help
the  National Football League  and its players’ union in talks
aimed at reaching a new labor agreement.  The U.S.’s most-watched television sport and its players
agreed to have the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service 
run negotiations starting tomorrow in Washington, the agency
said in a  news release .  “This is a very positive sign,” Gary Chaison, a professor
of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. “If the parties
don’t want to reach a settlement, they won’t. But the mediator
will help them along.”  The sides are arguing about how to share almost $9 billion
in league revenue. Owners want to double the $1 billion they
take out to cover expenses before dividing the remainder with
players, according to the  NFL Players Association . Other areas
of dispute include rookie salary scales, the addition of two
regular-season games and health care for players.  In “highly confrontational situations” mediation can help
parties back away from original positions and demands, or
retreat from bellicose rhetoric, improving the chances of
compromise, Chaison said.  “Negotiations will now be conducted under my auspices in  Washington , D.C.,” Director George H. Cohen said in the FMCS
release.  Soccer Agreement  The federal service, a government agency created in 1947 to
promote labor-management cooperation, said a year ago that it
helped negotiators for  Major League Soccer  and its players reach
a labor deal extending through the 2014 season.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the collective
bargaining agreement with players two years early, saying the
deal didn’t account for costs such as those of building
stadiums. The agreement ends March 3.  NFL executives including Jeff Pash, chief negotiator in
talks with the union, and Eric Grubman, executive vice president
for business ventures, said before the Feb. 6  Super Bowl  that
the league may lose $120 million in ticket sales, sponsorship
and revenue if there’s no deal by March and $1 billion if it
takes until September to reach an agreement. Each week of lost
games would cut league revenue about $400 million, they said.  Players also would suffer financially, Pash said, including
about 500 scheduled to become free agents in March who would
typically be signing contracts worth hundreds of millions of
dollars. Other players are scheduled to receive significant
bonuses that month, along with more in the months after, he
said.    DeMaurice Smith , the union’s executive director, said at
the Super Bowl that owners are preparing to lock them out when
the labor agreement expires.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has rejected as a
“negotiating ploy” the union’s demand that owners provide
financial documents showing the need for a new agreement, since
the league set audience records last season that helped to boost
revenue to an all-time high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 