-- 
Nigeria May Need to Raise Interest Rates, Weaken Naira, IMF Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-02-17T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nigeria-may-need-to-raise-interest-rates-weaken-naira-currency-imf-says.html
  Nigeria ’s central bank may need to
increase  interest rates  further to curb inflation after public
spending soared, while the currency should be weakened, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The naira is overvalued and more exchange rate flexibility
is needed to prevent the central bank from running down foreign
currency reserves to fix the rate, the Washington-based lender
said in a statement on its website today. Nigeria’s economy is
forecast to expand 7 percent in 2011, the fund said.  The Central Bank of Nigeria, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi,
raised the benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 6.5
percent on Jan. 25 to head off price pressures as fiscal
spending increased before elections in April. Public expenditure
surged 37 percent last year, after increasing 10 percent in
2009, the IMF said.  “Nigeria’s strong external position and low debt helped
mitigate the impact of the global financial crisis,” the IMF
said. “However, a pro-cyclical fiscal stance and an
accommodative  monetary policy  have resulted in high inflation
and a loss in international reserves.”  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and most populous
nation, and has the continent’s third-largest economy after  South Africa  and  Egypt . The economy probably grew 8.4 percent
last year as oil production increased, the IMF said.  Monetary Policy  Inflation accelerated for the first time in five months in
January, reaching 12.1 percent from 11.8 percent in the previous
month, the statistics office said today. The inflation rate will
probably ease to 9 percent by the end of 2011, the IMF said.  “Further monetary tightening may be needed should
inflation pressures continue,” the IMF said. “Moving gradually
toward an inflation-targeting regime, once the necessary
institutional underpinnings are in place, would help anchor
inflation expectations.”  Nigeria’s foreign currency reserves plunged by almost $10
billion to $33.1 billion in the year through Nov. 29, and
reached $34.5 billion on Feb. 11, according to data from the
Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria . The central bank aims to
keep the naira at about 150 per dollar and has depleted reserves
to defend the currency.  “Greater exchange rate stability would prevent one-way
bets in the foreign exchange market and cushion external
shocks,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  