-- 
Nigerian Oil Exploration at 10-Year Low Before Law

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-02-18T13:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nigerian-oil-exploration-at-10-year-low-before-petroleum-law.html
Oil exploration in Nigeria has
slumped to the lowest in a decade after producers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Total SA  backed away from investment
until the country’s petroleum law is passed.  Just one exploration well was drilled in Nigeria in the
past two years, the lowest since 1999, according to official
figures released by the Petroleum Ministry. The number of wells
peaked at 34 in 2002.  “Funds have not been available” for exploration, said
Belema Osibodu, a spokeswoman for the  Department of Petroleum
Resources , in a telephone interview yesterday.  Fewer wells meant the government missed its targets to
boost reserves to 40 billion barrels and output to 4 million
barrels a day by 2010. Nigeria’s total crude oil and condensate
reserves of about 37 billion barrels are the second-largest in  Africa  after Libya. The country is the continent’s biggest
producer, with current oil output of about 2.1 million barrels a
day, according to the state oil company.  While the government has struggled to meet its share of
contributions to joint ventures, international  oil companies 
have slowed exploration projects as they await new fiscal terms
in a proposed bill before parliament, Osibodu said.  The law to reform the way the oil industry is funded and
regulated, which has been in the legislature for more than two
years, is expected to be passed by the current government before
its tenure runs out in May, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said
Feb. 2. Energy companies say the proposed law will hand too much
profit and control to the state and make new investments in deep
water oil fields unprofitable.  Armed Attacks    Exxon Mobil Corp ., Shell,  Chevron Corp ., Total and  Eni SpA 
run joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. that pump about 90 percent of the country’s oil.  Shell has been selling some of its Nigerian onshore
licences to allow local producers and new investors to develop
the deposits. The company plans to sell four out of a total of
34 blocks it holds in the country, Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said Feb. 3.  “The blocks sold and for sale represent less than 10
percent of our production” in Nigeria, Henry said. “So we’re
really reducing the footprint, increasing indigenous
participation.”  Attacks in the south by armed groups including the Movement
for the emancipation of the  Niger Delta , or MEND, cut more than
28 percent of the country’s oil output between 2006 and 2009,
also deterring new investment.  While the attacks decreased after thousands of fighters
accepted a government amnesty in 2009, MEND refused to disarm,
saying its demands weren’t met. MEND wants the region to have
exclusive control of its resources, while paying tax to the
central government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 