-- 
Nigerian Inflation Accelerates on Higher Food, Energy Prices

-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 
2011-02-17T09:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nigerian-inflation-accelerates-on-higher-food-energy-prices.html
  Nigeria ’s inflation accelerated in
January for the first time in five months as the government
stepped up spending before elections and food and energy prices
rose, raising the possibility of an increase in  interest rates .  The inflation rate climbed to 12.1 percent from 11.8
percent a month earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said
today in a statement in the capital, Abuja.  “Key components of the inflation basket recorded
noticeable increases,” said Rose Umoren, president of Global
Money Ltd., a business research company in Abuja. “Prices of
wheat and sugar, kerosene and cooking gas were up during the
month.”  President  Goodluck Jonathan , a candidate in the April 9
vote, has committed funds to building roads, rail lines, bridges
and  power plants  in order to enhance growth. The increase in
spending was one of the reasons given by the  Central Bank of
Nigeria  for raising its key interest rate by quarter of a
percentage point to 6.5 percent on Jan. 25. The bank, which is
targeting inflation of less than 10 percent, also raised its
reserve requirement to 2 percent of deposits from 1 percent.  Rising global food prices may also push up inflation,
Governor Lamido Sanusi said. Flour millers in Nigeria have
raised prices by 7.6 percent because of the increasing cost of
wheat on international markets, Emmanuel Ukpabi, chief
executive officer of Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc said yesterday.  Nigeria’s economy, the second biggest on the continent
after  South Africa , will expand 7.98 percent this year, compared
with about 7.85 percent in 2010, Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said on Feb. 11. The West African country is the
continent’s top oil producer and the fifth-biggest supplier of
U.S. crude imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja at   pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 