-- 
Nightmare for Elderly Might Not Be Unavoidable: Chris Farrell

-- B y   C h r i s   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nightmare-for-elderly-may-not-be-unavoidable-commentary-by-chris-farrell.html
Republicans and Democrats are
starting to battle in earnest over how to cut federal
discretionary spending. Eventually the ominous arithmetic of
entitlements and tax revenue will require the focus to turn to
the Social Security benefit formula (as well as Medicare).  While much of the attention is on benefits paid or taxes
raised, the solution may lie in reviving an idea with a
venerable history in the U.S. and lessons to draw on from other
countries: Mandatory individual retirement  savings accounts .  The demographics of an aging nation are inexorable while
living standards for future retirees are increasingly uncertain.
A mandatory savings plan would bring greater financial security
in old age.  The basic outline of the pension scheme is widely shared,
while the details of various proposals differ. For instance, the
typical plan has all workers setting aside a portion of their
wages, with targets ranging from 3 percent to 10 percent. The
savings are invested in a well-diversified portfolio with razor-
thin fees.  Some proponents would limit worker choice, with the
accounts administered by a government agency (such as Social
Security) and the money directed into a broad market index, 60
percent in stocks and 40 percent in bonds.  Others prefer giving workers greater choice, perhaps by
allowing everyone into the Federal Thrift Savings Plan, a
defined-contribution pension overseen by an independent agency
and invested by private managers. The Thrift plan offers
participants a limited number of broad-based funds with an
expense ratio of 0.028 percent, compared with a 401(k) average
of about 1 percent.  No Tax  Workers would own the accounts, much like an IRA. Unlike
the George W. Bush administration’s controversial proposal to
partially privatize Social Security by redirecting a portion of
payroll taxes into private accounts, mandatory savings plans
would supplement Social Security. It’s savings, not a tax.  That said, once the system is up and running it opens up
the possibility of tweaking the overall retirement system for
the better. For instance, the mandatory savings requirement
could be gradually increased to offset the widely anticipated
Social Security benefit reductions. The move could shore up the
soundness of the Social Security safety net and boost everyone’s
retirement savings.  Another advantage of mandatory savings is that it frees up
management to focus on innovating for profits and markets in an
intensely competitive global economy, while providing
increasingly mobile workers with greater financial security in
their dotage.  Participation Rate  The big knock on the current voluntary retirement system is
its limited scope. In 2009, 59 percent of workers over the age
of 16 had access to an employment-based pension or retirement
plan and just 45 percent participated in such plans, according
to the Employee Benefits Research Institute.  The value of promised benefits is also suspect.  Governors and mayors are in a mud-wrestling match with
public employees over a gap between pension assets and
obligations that may reach $2 trillion. The Pension Benefit
Guarantee Corp., a federal agency that backstops private
pensions, estimates it’s at risk to the tune of $170 billion
from underfunded defined benefit plans at companies with a below
investment-grade  credit rating . Another $20 billion in exposure
comes from multi-employer plans.  Under 401(k) plans the burden of creating retirement
portfolios shifts to workers and research suggests that many are
doing a poor job of it.  Pressure to Act  The call for pension reform is not new. President  John F.
Kennedy ’s Committee on Corporate Pension Funds and Other Private
Retirement and Welfare Programs recommended a central clearing
house that would, among other things, keep accounts for workers
at small companies. In 1981, the President’s Commission on
Pension Policy suggested a mandatory universal pension system.
In 2002, then-House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, a Democrat
from  Missouri , proposed the Universal and Portable Pension Act.  Now, an aging population increases the pressure for action.  Jonathan Barry Forman, a University of Oklahoma law
professor, and Adam Carasso, chief economist on the minority
staff of the  House Budget Committee , created a mandatory savings
plan model that covers all workers, including the self-employed.
Their simulation starts on Jan. 1, 2007, with each worker
putting 10 percent of pay into an individual account.  The model assumes the accounts earn a 3 percent annual
return over inflation and that the workers’ real wages rise 1.1
percent a year. (These are in line with Social Security trustee
assumptions.) The savings accounts are annuitized at age 65.  Couple at 65  A high-earning two-income couple retiring in 2045 at 65
would have a combined income from Social Security and mandatory
savings of $89,466 in the first year of retirement, replacing 45
percent of pre-retirement income. A comparable average-income
couple would receive $64,187, replacing 51 percent of pre-
retirement earnings, and a low-income household would get
$36,705, or 65 percent of pre-replacement income.  The mandatory savings become more critical when Social
Security benefit cuts are assumed in their model.  The word “mandatory” sets off alarm bells. It should.
Mandated solutions are often no panacea. The transition to a new
savings system won’t be easy. Nevertheless, the goal of greater
retirement security is worth a mandate (as was Social Security).
The risk is too great that the alternative for future retirees
is to make do with less. We’d all be worse off then, not just
the elderly.  (Chris Farrell is a Businessweek.com columnist. A version
of this column appears on Businessweek.com. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Chris Farrell at   cfarrell@mpr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  