-- 
No Iran Warships Set to Enter Suez Canal, Egypt Says

-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-02-17T12:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/no-iranian-warships-scheduled-to-cross-suez-canal-egyptian-official-says.html
  Egypt ’s  Suez Canal Authority  said no
Iranian warships have applied to use the route since yesterday,
when Israel’s foreign minister accused Iran of a “provocation”
by planning to send two naval vessels to Syria via the waterway.  “No Iranian war vessels have passed through the  Suez Canal 
today and not yesterday,” the authority’s head of traffic,
Ahmed El Manakhly, told Bloomberg Television in an interview.
“We didn’t have any requests for any Iranian vessels to pass
through the canal.”  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said that Iran
was planning late yesterday to send two gunboats through the
canal to Syria, which would involve sailing through the eastern
Mediterranean, off Israel’s coast.  Concern that anti-government unrest in Egypt would disrupt
canal traffic sent  oil prices  to a two-year high on Feb. 2. The
120-mile (190-kilometer) Suez Canal carries about 2.5 percent of
world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and is
a key route for ships carrying Asian consumer goods to Europe.  “According to the rules which govern navigation through
Suez -- international rules -- we cannot forbid any vessel from
passing through the Suez Canal if there is no war between Egypt
and that country,” El Manakhly said. “Any vessel can pass
through the canal if we have prior approval from the Ministry of
Defense.”  Iranian Ships  Iran hasn’t sent warships through the canal in “many
years,” according to Lieberman. The ships are a British-built,
1960s-era Mk-5 frigate and a supply vessel, according to
Israel’s Yedioth Ahronot newspaper.  Lieberman said another provocation by Iran was the October
visit to southern Lebanon by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . The Israeli minister compared Ahmadinejad to Hitler
in a December interview in Newsweek.  Israeli leaders have voiced concern that Iran may exploit
the instability in the region following the Feb. 11 ousting of
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Iran has sought to crush anti-
government protests at home, including one on Feb. 14 inspired
by the revolts in Egypt and Tunisia, where the president was
ousted last month.  Israel and the U.S. suspect that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
aimed at producing weapons. Iran says its atomic installations
are for generating power. The United Nations has imposed four
rounds of sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.  “The international community must understand that  Israel 
can’t ignore forever these kinds of provocations,” Lieberman
said yesterday in a speech to U.S. Jewish leaders in Jerusalem
in which he discussed the ships.  After his comments, gasoline climbed to a 28-month high on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, rising with crude oil and
heating oil on concern that Middle Eastern oil shipments will be
disrupted. Crude oil for March delivery rose 67 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $84.99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. It fell slightly to $84.63 a barrel at 10:54
a.m. in  London  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Cairo through the Dubai newsroom at
   vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 