-- 
Norges Bank Governor Olsen Says Policy Can't Be Held Responsible for Krone

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-18T07:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/norges-bank-governor-olsen-says-policy-can-t-be-held-responsible-for-krone.html
  Norway ’s central bank can’t be held
accountable for industrial competitiveness and the  exchange rate 
when setting monetary policy, Governor Oeystein Olsen said, as
the bank prepares to resume tightening later this year.  “We don’t want to take the responsibility for the currency
level nor the overall competitiveness of the manufacturing
industry,” Olsen said yesterday in an interview in Oslo.  Olsen, who took office this year, also yesterday reinforced
the bank’s 10-year commitment to inflation targeting in his
first traditional annual address. He had previously signaled the
bank would keep a closer eye on asset-price bubbles when setting
policy in the world’s second-richest nation per capita.  The bank, which in 2009 became the first in  Europe  to lift
rates after the financial crisis, is trying to balance policy to
keep an economic rebound apace and has said it will raise
borrowing costs again in mid-2011. Policy makers have held their
main rate unchanged at 2 percent since May on concerns that
European austerity measures may hurt exports.  The krone strengthened to 7.758 per euro as of 8:08 a.m. in
Oslo, from 7.763 yesterday. It weakened less than 0.1 percent to
5.707 against the dollar.  Prospects of higher rates and an economic expansion of 2.2
percent last year helped push the krone to the highest in eight
months against the euro last month. It has gained 5 percent
against the euro since the end of October, making it the fifth
best performer among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Krone gains have hurt exports, which fell 1.3 percent last year,
according to  Statistics Norway .  No Specific View  “We seek to take these kinds of effects into consideration
when it affects the real economy,” Olsen said. Still, “at
Norges Bank we have no specific view on any equilibrium target
or views on a specific level for the exchange rate.”  Olsen, who succeeded  Svein Gjedrem  as central bank governor
last month, held his first annual address in Oslo today.  Krone gains and a sluggish economy have kept inflation
below the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since July 2009.
Annual underlying inflation, which excludes energy costs and
taxes, eased to 0.7 percent in January from 1 percent the
previous month.  The low rate combined with Europe’s lowest unemployment
boosted  consumer confidence  in the fourth quarter to the highest
in more than three years. Property prices rose an annual 8
percent last year and are expected to gain about 6 percent a
year over the next four years, Statistics Norway forecast today.
Household credit growth has risen to 6.5 percent in December
from 6.1 percent in July.  The Damage  “We don’t neglect those effects. We seek to balance the
damage it has on the real economy towards the prospects of
inflation. But we don’t lose sight of the final target,” Olsen
said. “We only have one instrument that is the interest rate
and we should not overload one instrument by setting up several
targets.”  Record-low rates in the U.S. and the euro region have
capped the scope for tightening in Norway as the bank tries to
avoid increasing the rate differential, Olsen said, adding that
rate expectations in Europe had increased recently.  “Yes that provides us with more scope to increase interest
rates in Norway,” Olsen said.  The bank expects its benchmark rate to average 2.25 percent
this year and 3.25 percent next year. Statistics Norway expected
the rate to be raised by 25 basis points each quarter from June
2011 until the end of 2014.  “The money market rate is expected to change roughly in
line with the  base rate , and to exceed 6 percent by the end of
2014. The average interest on loans in the banks is expected to
reach 7.5 percent,” the agency said today.  Olsen and his policy making board will meet on March 16 to
discuss interest rates. The board will also publish its first
monetary policy report for 2011, which will contain an updated
interest rate path.  “We will take new events into consideration,” Olsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  