-- 
North Korea May Attack Again in `Months,' U.S. Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-02-17T23:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/north-korea-may-attack-again-in-months-u-s-says.html
  North Korea  may stage another attack
“in months and not years,” said Navy Admiral Robert Willard,
the top U.S. commander in the Pacific.  North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  appears to be training his
son “on a compressed timeline” in “coercive measures” like
the attacks last year that killed 46 sailors on the South Korean
Cheonan warship and four people on the island of Yeonpyeong,
Willard told a forum sponsored by the  Asia Society  in Washington
today.  “We may very well be facing the next provocation in months
and not years,” Willard said in remarks that also touched on
China and  Southeast Asia .  The U.S. is working with  South Korea  on efforts to “be
prepared for a next provocation should it occur,” said Willard,
who leads the U.S. Pacific Command.  “These provocations have raised the ire of the South
Korean people in a way that we haven’t seen,” Willard said,
echoing comments by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  on a trip to
the region last month. “The South Korean level of tolerance for
a next provocation is very low.”  Another attack may prompt more severe retaliation from
South Korea than the military exercises and exchange of
artillery fire that occurred last year, especially after North
Korea walked out of the first talks with South Korea in four
months on Feb. 9. North Korea has resisted appeals from the U.S.
and partners in the region to end missile tests and its nuclear
program.  No ‘Near-Term’ Missile Test  There’s no sign the North Koreans are planning another
missile test in the “near term,” Willard said, without being
specific.  “The continued development of their ballistic missile
capability, combined with the continued development of their
nuclear weapons is problematic” for the Korean Peninsula,
Northeast  Asia  and the international community, Willard said.  Gates, who said last month that the combination means North
Korea is becoming a direct threat to the U.S., has sought to
persuade China to put more pressure on its neighboring regime to
comply with United Nations resolutions.  The Obama administration has struggled to improve military
ties with China even as political and economic cooperation
improves.  China’s Stealth Fighter  Members of the Senate Armed Services Committee questioned
Gates today about China’s development and first flight last
month of its new J-20 radar-evading fighter jet. Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper told a House committee last
week that it was “not a surprise.”  The test may have occurred six months to a year before
intelligence estimates projected, Gates told the Senate Armed
Services Committee today.  Still, China may have 50 of the aircraft deployed by 2020
and “maybe a couple hundred” by 2025, the defense chief said.
That compares to 325  Lockheed Martin Corp . F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter planes the U.S. plans to have by the end of 2016, Gates
said. The U.S. will have 850 fifth-generation aircraft by 2020,
he said.  He also cited the time it takes to develop such a fighter,
with China working on its first versus the U.S. experience of 20
years.  “I think they’ve got a long road in front of them before
this becomes a serious operational aircraft in any numbers,” he
said, adding that he didn’t want to get into classified details
in an open hearing.  Talks Proposal  The U.S. hasn’t received a response to a proposal from
Gates during his February visit to Beijing for higher-level
talks with  China  on nuclear weapons, space and cyber issues,
Willard said.  Willard asked the audience rhetorically to consider what
the U.S. should do in the event China declines to participate.  Chinese and U.S. officials resumed lower-level discussions
in November after almost nine months of little contact in
retaliation for an announcement by the U.S. a year ago that it
would sell more arms to  Taiwan .  Willard said a large part of his responsibility is to
advance the military relationship with China.  “It’s been a challenge to accomplish that,” he said.  U.S. and Chinese forces are coming into contact at “an
ever-increasing rate,” he said.  “In the end, if the two militaries are coming into contact
with one another at the rate they are, it’s important that my
commanders” on the high seas or in the air have enough
familiarity to “not misjudge, mis-communicate or ever
misunderstand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  