-- 
Norway’s Olsen Warns Against ‘Overburdening’ Rate Setting Goal

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-17T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/norway-s-olsen-warns-against-overburdening-rate-setting-goal.html
  Norway ’s central bank governor said
interest-rate setting shouldn’t take on too many objectives as
keeping inflation stable is the main focus.    Monetary policy  shall be oriented towards low and stable
inflation,” Oeystein Olsen said today in a speech in Oslo.
“The interest rate must not be overburdened with many
objectives, but can contribute to stabilizing fluctuations in
the economy.”  The governor, appointed at the start of this year,
reinforced the bank’s 10-year commitment to inflation targeting
in his first traditional annual address. He had previously
suggested the bank would keep a closer eye on asset-price
bubbles when setting monetary policy in the world’s second-
richest nation per capita.  The governor said that 10 years of inflation targeting has
been a “golden period” amid rapidly expanding demand from  China  and as the enlargement of the European Union provided new
markets for Norway, which isn’t a member of the bloc. The
inflation rate dropped to the lowest level since 2006 in
January, at 0.7 percent, according to  Statistics Norway .  “Inflation is so low today that people barely give it a
thought,” said Olsen, adding that inflation over the period has
been about 2 percent, or “close to the target” of 2.5 percent.  Easy to Lose  Olsen said that inflation targeting has become more
flexible after a decade, which is “good to have, and easy to
lose,” according to the speech. “Without results showing that
the inflation target is in fact reached over time, the
credibility of monetary policy is put at risk.”  Olsen last month kept the rate unchanged for a sixth
meeting, sticking to a policy set by his predecessor,  Svein Gjedrem , who last year pushed back the next rate rise until mid-
2011 on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may sap the region’s
recovery. A report today, showed Norway’s mainland economy,
which excludes its oil and shipping revenue, grew 0.3 percent in
the fourth quarter, after expanding 1.1 percent in the third.  Norges Bank  expects  the mainland economy to grow about 3
percent this year and in 2012, according to its latest monetary
policy report. The bank has kept its benchmark rate at 2 percent
since May and has said it will raise borrowing costs in the
middle of this year. The rate will average 2.25 percent in 2011
and 3.25 percent in 2012, according to the bank’s report.  Debt Growth  The governor said in his speech, that while “debt growth
has slowed in Norway, the level of debt shows no sign of
falling.”  House prices  rose 8.3 percent last year, after
gaining 1.9 percent in 2009, the statistics agency said today,
and forecast annual gains of more than 6 percent through 2013.  Norway’s central bank is trying to balance policy to steer
stronger consumer demand without fueling currency gains that
risk hurting exporters. The krone has strengthened about 2.5
percent against the euro and 2.2 percent to the dollar over the
past 12 months. The currency of the world’s seventh-largest oil
exporter is up 4.6 percent against the euro since October.  “The upturn in the Norwegian economy now seems to have
gained a firm footing,” Olsen said. “Low inflation prospects
still imply a low  interest rates ,” he said, reiterating a
stance that the rate “should not be kept low for too long” to
guard against imbalances.  Norway’s mainland economy grew 2.2 percent last year,
compared with a 1.3 percent decline in 2009, the Statistics
Office said today.  In a  separate statement  the agency raised its economic
growth forecast for this year to 3.3 percent from a December
forecast of 3 percent. Norway’s mainland economic growth will
accelerate to 3.8 percent next year before slowing to 3.6
percent in 2013 and 3.2 percent in 2014, the agency said.  Statistics Norway expects the benchmark rate to be raised
by 0.25 percentage point each quarter from June 2011 until the
end of 2014, it said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  