-- 
NYSE Euronext Sued Over Deutsche Boerse Takeover

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-02-17T00:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/nyse-euronext-sued-over-deutsche-boerse-takeover.html
  NYSE Euronext , the parent company of
the New York Stock Exchange, was sued by shareholders seeking to
block its planned $9.53 billion sale to  Deutsche Boerse  AG, a
deal that would create the world’s largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets.  The all-stock transaction is “grossly inadequate” and
resulted from a flawed process, lawyers for shareholder Samuel
T. Cohen said in a complaint made public today in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington. The proposed sale values NYSE at
less than targets in similar deals, such as  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc ’s purchase of  Canada ’s TMX Group Inc.,
according to the lawsuit.  “There appears to have been no sales process, and the
proposed transaction did not emerge from an auction,” Cohen’s
lawyers said in the complaint. “A board that provides a would-
be acquirer with an exclusive opportunity to bid on a company
and fails to conduct a market-check, does not act in the
interests of shareholders.”  Investors said in another lawsuit, filed today in New York
Supreme Court, said the sale will result in New York Stock
Exchange shareholders owning 40 percent of the acquired company,
with the remaining 60 percent held by  Deutsche Boerse AG . The
sale offers “no meaningful premium to NYSE’s public
shareholders” and will “result in a loss of control of the
company and its prospects,” according to the complaint.    Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman for New York-based NYSE
Euronext, had no immediate comment on the Delaware complaint.
Pellecchia didn’t immediately return another call after regular
business hours seeking comment on the New York case.  Share Swap  Under the deal announced yesterday, Deutsche Boerse, which
runs the Eurex futures platform and Frankfurt Stock Exchange, is
swapping one share of its own stock for one share in the
company, while every NYSE Euronext share will be converted into
0.47 share, the companies said in a statement.  The transaction values NYSE Euronext at 8.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 9.35 times
Ebitda for TMX and 18.35 for ASX Ltd., the Australian stock-
market operator being acquired by Singapore Exchange Ltd.  NYSE Euronext fell $1.40, or 3.7 percent, to $36.72 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse fell 1.55 euros, or 2.6 percent, to 58.50 euros in German
trading on the Xetra exchange.  The Delaware case is Cohen v. NYSE Euronext, CA6198,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The New York Case is KT
investments II LLC v. Jan-Micheiel Hessels, 650407, New York
State Supreme Court   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  