-- 
Obama Takes Defense of Budget, Deficit Plan to Local Stations

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-17T00:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/obama-takes-defense-of-budget-deficit-plan-to-local-stations.html
President  Barack Obama  defended his
2012 budget proposal in an interview with a Cincinnati
television station, making his case to voters that the
government is acting to reduce record deficits.  Obama also sat for interviews today with stations in  Virginia ,  Wisconsin  and  Ohio , all likely to be contested states
in next year’s presidential election, along with Hearst-Argyle
Television Inc., with owns more than two-dozen stations
nationwide.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said the sessions
recorded at the White House are part of the president’s
“continued effort to talk to Americans across the country about
his budget proposal.”  Obama on Feb. 14 unveiled $3.7 trillion budget blueprint
for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 that the administration has
said will reduce the deficit by $1.1 trillion over the next
decade.  The budget shortfall will hit a record $1.6 trillion --
10.9 percent of gross domestic product -- up from the $1.4
trillion the administration estimated previously. It would be
$1.1 trillion in 2012, 7 percent of GDP. By 2015 it would
decline to $607 billion, or 3.2 percent of GDP, according to
administration forecasts.  In his interview with WCPO in Cincinnati, Obama highlighted
the spending cuts he included in his budget, while saying more
work will need to be done to tackle shortfalls in the Medicaid
and Medicare health-insurance programs  “My budget freezes spending for five years and what that
does is solve the short term problem by saying we’re not going
to spend any more money than we’re taking in,” Obama said.  ‘Do More’  “The big drivers of deficit and debt are Medicare and
Medicaid,” he said. “We’re going to have to do more.”  Republicans have criticized the budget proposal for not
directly addressing the three main entitlement programs --
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- that account for
roughly 40 percent of the budget and are the main drivers of the
nation’s long-term deficit. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ,, a Wisconsin Republican, told White House budget director  Jacob Lew  earlier this week that the budget “disappointed us
all.”  Obama, in a Feb. 15 press conference, said he wants to work
with members of both parties to address the government’s long-
range finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  