-- 
OCC's Walsh Says Dodd-Frank Credit-Rating Ban May Block Basel III Adoption

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-17T16:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/occ-s-walsh-says-credit-rating-ban-may-block-basel-iii-adoption.html
The Dodd-Frank Act ban on references
to credit ratings in financial-industry rules should be amended
to keep it from blocking adoption of international capital and
liquidity standards, a top banking regulator told lawmakers.  “Precluding undue or exclusive reliance on credit ratings,
rather than imposing an absolute bar to their use, would strike
a more appropriate balance,”  John Walsh , the acting Comptroller
of the Currency, said in testimony prepared for a Senate hearing
today on the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last year.  Dodd-Frank requires regulators to replace references to
credit ratings with an “appropriate” standard for measuring
creditworthiness. Unless that provision is amended by Congress,
the U.S. will have difficulty meeting the Basel III capital and
liquidity framework adopted last year, Walsh said in comments
prepared for the Senate Banking Committee.  Developing a new credit standard has been challenging for
regulators, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
told lawmakers in her prepared remarks.  Credit-rating firms, including  Moody’s Corp . and McGraw-
Hill Cos.’  Standard & Poor’s  unit, were targeted by lawmakers
after they issued top rankings to mortgage-backed securities
whose collapse helped spark the financial crisis.  Senators called Walsh and Bair to testify along with
regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at
a hearing marking the half-year since passage of Dodd-Frank, the
biggest financial rules overhaul since the 1930s. Agencies are
drafting scores of measures to boost oversight of derivatives,
executive pay and systemically important financial firms.  Primary Focus  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, plans to make implementation of the law a
primary focus of the panel, according to a draft agenda sent to
members on Feb. 2.  “The Dodd-Frank Act is a major step forward for financial
regulation,” Bernanke said in his prepared remarks. The Fed is
working “to ensure that the law is implemented expeditiously
and in a manner that best protects the stability of our
financial system and economy.”  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler 
and  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
used their prepared testimony to repeat calls for funding
increases to help carry out their new responsibilities.  ‘Major Expansion’  The regulatory law represents “a major expansion of the
SEC’s responsibilities and will require significant additional
resources for full implementation,” Schapiro said. Budgets for
regulators including the CFTC and SEC have been targeted by
Republican lawmakers looking to rein in federal spending.  Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee, in a Feb. 15
letter to regulators, urged them to conduct “rigorous” cost-
benefit analysis of rules required under the law.  “The potential harm to our already-weak economy and the
public from ill-conceived rules cannot be underestimated,” the
senators wrote to regulators, including Bernanke and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the banking panel’s top
Republican, said consumers will face higher costs for financial
services because of regulatory and compliance fees stemming from
Dodd-Frank.  “Absent legislative action, Dodd-Frank is going to be very
expensive,” Shelby said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  