-- 
Lockheed, Boeing Programs Boosted in $31.7 Billion Space Plan

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-17T19:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/lockheed-boeing-programs-boosted-in-31-7-billion-space-plan.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp .,  Boeing Co .
and  Northrop Grumman Corp . satellite and launch services are
among 13 major programs boosted in the U.S. Air Force’s space
budget of $31.7 billion through 2016.  The plan includes $20.3 billion for procurement of
satellites and launch services aboard Atlas V and Delta IV
boosters and $11.4 billion in research, including redesign of a
Northrop Grumman weather satellite, according to Air Force
budget data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland, is the prime
contractor or team partner on the four highest-funded Air Force
space programs. Among those programs is the company’s Denver,
Colorado-based United Launch Alliance  joint venture  with Boeing
for boosting military, spy and  NASA  satellites in orbit.  The Obama administration’s new National Security Space
 Strategy  highlights the importance of developing space
capabilities and a U.S. industrial base “that is robust,
competitive and flexible, healthy and delivers reliable space
capabilities on time and on budget.”  Previewing the 2012 budget on  Jan. 6 , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the Air Force would increase funding for the
launch alliance joint venture’s  Evolved Expendable Launch
Vehicle , known as the EELV, “to assure access” while
“sustaining our industrial base.”  Expendable Launch Vehicle  The long-range EELV plan includes $1.8 billion for fiscal
2012, increasing to $2.2 billion in 2016. The five-year total is
$9.9 billion, the largest of any space program.  The EELV launch costs have increased in recent years
because the commercial space market that was expected to defray
the expense of military launches never materialized.  The Air Force and the National Reconnaissance Office that
manages spy satellites plan to buy from the launch alliance an
average of eight launches a year through 2016, Air Force
Undersecretary  Erin Conaton  told reporters Feb. 15.  These launch rates will lower the cost per booster and
contribute to “a more stable market for our industrial base,”
she said.    Maryland  Representative C.E “Dutch”  Ruppersberger,  the
ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said in an
e-mail that the Air Force may not be doing enough to cut costs.  Booster Costs  “At this point, I have only received the budget highlights
but I am concerned by the large escalations for EELV” in the
2012 budget, he said.  “Right now, America spends more money per launch and faces
more delays than any other country in the world,” he said.
“These are, in part, because of the way we assemble and launch
rockets.”  “The U.S. is also committed to a two-company alliance to
handle all launches, despite the fact that other U.S. companies
are showing promise in the field,” Ruppersberger said. “We
need competition to bring costs down.”  Michael Rein, a spokesman for the launch alliance, had no
immediate comment about the lawmaker’s remarks.  Lockheed Martin’s Advanced Extremely High Frequency
communications satellite program could see $4.6 billion through
2016 in research and procurement funding, with $975 million
requested in fiscal 2012 for the down-payment on a fifth and a
sixth satellite. The request drops to $902 million by 2016.  Lockheed and Los Angeles-based subcontractor Northrop
Grumman have four of the Advanced EHF satellites on contract.
The  Air Force  includes in fiscal 2012 the initial $975 million
needed for the fifth and sixth satellites.  The service wants to buy the satellites under a new
“block” buying approach rather than purchasing one each in
consecutive years to save as much as 10 percent.  Incentive Fee Contracts  The Air Force also wants to buy the new satellites under
fixed-price incentive fee contracts. The first four have been
bought under so-called cost-plus contracts that require the Air
Force to pay for cost overruns. The fixed-price contracts would
require Lockheed to pay some portion of cost growth.  The Air Force also is requesting $4.6 billion through 2016
for the Lockheed Martin-Northrop Grumman early warning Space
Based Infrared  System , including $996 million for continued
assembly of four satellites and down-payment on parts for a
fifth and sixth.  The Air Force request increases to $1.1 billion in 2013,
according to the budget.  The first Space Based Infrared System is scheduled to
launch about May 4, Major General  John Hyten,  head of Air Force
space acquisition, told reporters on Feb. 15.  Nine Years Late  A May 4 date would be almost nine years after the original
September 2002 date, or the fifth time since the program’s start
in 1996 that the delivery and launch date was pushed back
because of technical and quality problems, according to the U.S.
Government Accountability Office.  The Space Based Infrared System satellites are designed to
orbit 23,300 miles in space, staring at the earth to spot
missile launches. The program has increased in cost to $15.1
billion, since it started at about $4.7 billion, according to
Pentagon figures.  Lockheed Martin’s upgraded GPS IIIA satellite program,
planned for initial launch in 2014, would receive $4.2 billion
through 2016 in procurement and research.  Weather Satellite  The Air Force budget also includes $2.3 billion to begin
redesign of an earlier Northrop Grumman weather satellite to a
smaller, lighter model called the Defense Weather Satellite
 System . The first program, formed in 1994 by the Pentagon, NASA
and  National Weather Service , was divided last year into two
programs.  The original program suffered from performance problems and
schedule slips that increased overall program costs to $14.9
billion from $6.1 billion, according to a June 2010
congressional hearing.  The first of two satellites is planned for launch in 2018.
The fiscal 2012 request calls for $445 million and increases to
$527 million in fiscal 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  