-- 
Organized Crime Groups Are Targeting London 2012 Ticket Sales, Police Say

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-02-17T11:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/organized-crime-groups-are-targeting-london-2012-ticket-sales-police-say.html
Organized crime gangs, mainly from
the U.K., are planning to sell fake or unauthorized tickets for
the  London 2012 Olympics , police said today.  “We don’t believe this is low-level crime,” detective
chief inspector Nick Downing of the Metropolitan Police said in
a press briefing today at the headquarters of the Games
organizing committee. “They have business models they follow,
and we are now looking to break down that model.”  Downing’s team of 36 detectives, focused on investigating
organized crime around the summer Games, have arrested 36 people
mainly from the U.K. in nine operations, Downing said. The Met
team was founded seven months ago.  The Summer Games officially open on July 27, 2012. About
8.8 million tickets will go on sale on the London 2012 website,
www.tickets.london2012.com, to the public for a period of six
weeks starting March 15. Instead of “first come, first
served,” tickets will be sold in a ballot, giving every
applicant an equal chance of attending an Olympic event.  “It is illegal to sell our tickets in public without our
permission,” said Paul Deighton, chief executive officer of the
organizing committee, adding that it’s also illegal to re-sell
tickets at a profit.  The Metropolitan Police has been compiling a list of
possible fraudsters and ticket touts by looking at large events
such as last year’s soccer  World Cup  in  South Africa , the 2010
Winter Olympics in  Vancouver , Premier League soccer matches and
pop concerts at London’s O2 stadium.  ‘Thousands’ of Names  Downing said the list contains “hundreds, and moving into
the thousands” of names. “We know who is out there. There are
clear links to organized crime.”  The police are warning people not to buy tickets from
unknown websites. The London 2012 site will have a so-called
website checker, which ticket buyers can use to find out whether
a ticket website is fake.  Selling Olympic tickets illegally may be punished by a
maximum fine of 5,000 pounds ($8,072). Fraudsters or ticket
touts linked to organized crime may also be prosecuted under the
Fraud Act, which could lead to “substantial” jail sentences,
Downing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  