-- 
Mortgage Servicers May Face Sanctions, New Rules, Regulator Says

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/mortgage-servicers-may-face-sanctions-new-rules-regulator-says.html
U.S. banking regulators
investigating flawed foreclosures are “finalizing” remedial
requirements and sanctions against mortgage servicers, Acting
Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  said.  Banking regulators, the  Department of Justice , and state
attorneys general began reviewing foreclosures last fall at the
14 largest federally regulated loan servicers, including  Bank of
America Corp .,  Wells Fargo & Co .,  Citigroup Inc . and the GMAC
unit of Ally Financial Inc., after evidence surfaced that bank
employees and contractors were seizing homes without proper
review or complete documentation.  In testimony prepared for a hearing of the Senate Banking
Committee today, Walsh said regulators uncovered “critical
deficiencies and shortcomings” that “resulted in violations of
state and local foreclosure laws, regulations, or rules and have
had an adverse effect on the functioning of the mortgage markets
and the  U.S. economy  as a whole.”  Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens
told a congressional panel yesterday that government agencies
could come to agreement on enforcement actions and financial
penalties within about a month.  Most regulators found problems during their examinations
that would merit sanctions, but they have not yet decided
whether a unified settlement will take place, Stevens said
during a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee.  “We can work with the other regulators to come up with a
set of solutions, assuming the general outcomes and findings are
the same, or we can go individually,” Stevens said during the
hearing.    Attorneys General   The attorneys general have said they plan to address the
loan-modification process in settlements with major servicers.
They may push to bar foreclosures when borrowers are already
seeking modification and to create a fund to compensate victims
of wrongful foreclosures.  It would be “really premature” to discuss the content or
timing of a possible settlement, Stevens said in an interview
after the hearing.  “We would love to come to a mutual outcome that respects
the need to get the market stabilized as well as respects all
the regulators involved and the institutions that are going to
need to settle,” he said.  Stevens said regulators were still trying to reach
consensus on the size of financial penalties. “This comes down
to, what are the actual violations we can identify?” he said.
“We haven’t aggregated them all together. What are the
potential costs that each agency could assess?”  Changing Rules  Federal regulators also are considering changing the rules
governing foreclosures.  Changes being studied include a new fee structure for
servicers, independent reviews of rejected requests to ease loan
terms and a fund to compensate victims of improper foreclosures,
according to  Sheila Bair , chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and federal and state regulators.  Walsh said in his prepared testimony that regulators
examined 2,800 foreclosure cases to determine whether banks had
adequate procedures, staffing, oversight of contractors,
documentation, and quality control. They also evaluated whether
the servicers made contact with borrowers and tried to avert the
foreclosure. The degree of problems varied by servicer, Walsh
said.  “We intend to leverage our findings and our lessons learned
in this examination and enforcement process to contribute to the
development of national mortgage servicing standards,” Walsh
said in his testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .
Phil Mattingly  in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  