-- 
RBS, Lloyds Gain as Osborne Mulls Looser U.K. Liquidity Rules

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-17T11:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/osborne-considers-easing-bank-liquidity-rules-after-pressure-from-lenders.html
U.K. bank stocks rose in London
trading after the Treasury said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering ways of easing liquidity rules
imposed on banks.    Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the biggest government-
controlled lender rose 4 percent to 49.07 pence at 11.28 a.m.,
while  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  gained 2.8 percent to 69.04 pence
and  Barclays Plc  1.8 percent to 337.8 pence.  Banks sought to reduce the quality and amount of collateral
needed during the so-called Project Merlin talks to restrain pay
and boost lending, according to a Treasury spokesman, who cannot
be named to comply with civil-service rules. The spokesman
wouldn’t comment on how likely Osborne is to loosen the rules.  “Watering down the liquidity rules should be good for the
banks with the weakest liquidity positions,” said Cormac Leech,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London . “Given Lloyds
generally weaker liquidity position the benefit of easier
liquidity is likely to be greater.”  In October 2009, the  Financial Services Authority 
introduced measures forcing banks to hold as much as 110 billion
pounds ($177 billion) of government bonds to bolster lenders
against another financial crisis. Barclays Plc, the first of the
U.K. banks to report earnings, this week disclosed its liquidity
pool rose 21 percent to 154 billion pounds in 2010 from a year
earlier, costing the bank 900 million pounds. A spokesman for
Barclays wasn’t immediately available to comment.  After the Project Merlin discussions that finished last
week, Lloyds, Barclays,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and RBS agreed to pay
lower bonuses to U.K. staff than last year and disclose the
remuneration details of their five most senior employees below
board level.  Those four lenders and  Banco Santander SA . also agreed to
make loans of about 190 billion pounds to companies to help
bolster the U.K. economic recovery. A day before the Merlin deal
was announced, the chancellor raised tax on the industry by 800
million pounds.  The plan to ease liquidity rules was previously reported by
the Financial Times newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  