-- 
Hot Bands, Nude on Bench, ‘Will and Grace’ Star: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-02-17T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hot-bands-nude-on-bench-will-and-grace-star-top-pizza-london-weekend.html
Catch up with hotly tipped bands
this weekend. The Crystal Castles, Magnetic Men and Everything
Everything are nominated in the NME Awards as names likely to
make it big in 2011.  The magazine award shows include Frank Turner at the
Borderline on Friday night and a rock show at the O2 Academy in
Brixton topped by the Vaccines.  Information:  http://www.nme.com/awards   Brixton isn’t everyone’s choice culinary destination, yet
one eatery there draws foodies from across London. Franco Manca
arguably serves  London ’s finest Neapolitan-style pizzas --
cooked in seconds, and cheap as chips. The catch? A potentially
long time standing in line.  Information:  http://francomanca.co.uk/  or +44-20-7738-3021.  Saturday  Beware of jilted brides.  Their ghosts return to hunt down the male of the species --
or so they’ll have you believe in “Giselle,” which completes
its Royal Ballet stint this weekend.  Giselle dies in her frumpy peasant gown, and reappears in a
heavenly tutu to shield her beloved from the spiteful spirits --
even though he’s actually engaged to somebody else.  Italian-born principal Mara Galeazzi plays Giselle in the
matinee performance, while principal Alina Cojocaru is the lead
the previous night.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7240-1200.  Saturday Night  Hear the actor who plays Beverley Leslie in “Will and
Grace” tell you his life story.  Leslie Jordan spends 90 minutes narrating his camp memoir,
rehab and all. Along the way, he drops names you might
recognize:  George Clooney , who he remembers fondly; and Boy George, who he sourly recalls shooting a commercial with.  “My Trip Down the Pink Carpet” ends this weekend at the
Apollo Theatre. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or
+44-844-412-4658.  You’re spoiled for choice around Shaftesbury Avenue. For
low-priced, high-quality Italian, Bocca di Lupo is a fine
choice. This unpretentious restaurant is inexpensive and
popular. Book early and try for a seat at the bar. Information:
 http://www.boccadilupo.com/  or +44-20-7734-2223.  Sunday  At the Hayward Gallery, an artwork will tell you the time
as your life ebbs by, minute by minute.  No, it’s not a tedious talking clock. It’s Christian
Marclay’s 24-hour montage of thousands of film clips where time
is shown on clocks and watches -- and corresponds exactly to the
time it is while you’re watching.  “The Clock” is the crowd-puller at the otherwise uneven
“British Art Show 7,” a traveling display of contemporary
British art put together every five years.  Look out, too, for the male nude who appears at random
intervals to sit on one side of a metal bench while the other
side is briefly set ablaze -- in Turner Prize nominee Roger
Hiorns’s “Untitled” (2005-10).  The show ends April 17. Information:
 http://www.britishartshow.co.uk  or +44-844-847-9910.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 