-- 
Total, Arkema Should Lose Appeal of Fine, Adviser Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-02-17T20:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/total-unit-arkema-should-lose-fine-appeal-eu-court-aide-says.html
  Total SA ’s Elf Aquitaine unit and
former Total subsidiary  Arkema SA  should lose a challenge over
the calculation of antitrust fines levied six years ago for
rigging prices of a chemical used in detergents.  The appeals should be dismissed, Advocate General Paolo Mengozzi of the  European Court of Justice  said in a non-binding
opinion today. The Luxembourg-based EU tribunal follows this
advice most of the time.  The units are fighting the way the European Commission
calculated part of the 216.9 million euro ($295 million) in
fines levied against companies also including  Akzo Nobel NV  and  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s Hoechst unit for fixing prices of
monochloroacetic acid. The case marked the first time a
commission fine has been challenged over the failure to show the
parent company knew about the conduct.  The opinion “doesn’t in any way predict” the final
decision, Sybille Chaix, an Arkema spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. The company will wait for the court’s ruling and in the
meantime “remains confident” in the arguments it made in its
appeal, she said.  Officials at Paris-based Total didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail and a call seeking comment.  In its 2005 decision, the regulator fined Total’s Atofina
unit 58.5 million euros. That included a joint 45 million-euro
penalty for Arkema and Total’s Elf Aquitaine, based in
Courbevoie,  France . Arkema was spun off from Total in 2006.  The cartel, including Akzo, in 2009 lost challenges at the
lower EU tribunal, which is now called the  EU General Court .
Only Hoechst won a reduction of about 10 percent to its fine,
cutting it to 66.6 million euros from 74.03 million euros.  The commission in 2005 said the companies conspired for 15
years to control more than 90 percent of a market worth as much
as 125 million euros annually in  Europe . Monochloroacetic acid
is also used to make adhesives and drugs and to thicken
cosmetics.  Today’s cases are C-520/09 P, Arkema v. Commission; C-
521/09 P, Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  