-- 
Tottenham's Corluka May Miss Season After Tackle, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-02-17T10:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/tottenham-s-corluka-may-miss-season-after-tackle-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Corluka Fears  Tottenham defender Vedran Corluka may miss the rest of the
season after suffering ankle ligament damage when he was hit by
a two-footed challenge by AC Milan’s Mathieu Flamini, the  Sun
said.   Corluka will see a specialist today, but isn’t expected to
return this season, the newspaper said. Teammate Jonathan Woodgate, who played his first game in 15 months in Tottenham’s
1-0 win at Milan two days ago, has a “severe” new groin
injury, the newspaper said.  Wright’s Off  Manchester City winger Shaun Wright-Phillips has decided he
must leave the club at the end of the season to get playing
time, the  Mirror said.   The player was close to a move to Bolton or Fulham last
month, but was blocked from leaving when fellow midfielder  Adam
Johnson  was injured, the newspaper said. Manager Roberto Mancini
criticized Wright-Phillips after a 0-0 draw with Aris Salonika
in the Europa League, the Mirror said.  Fabiano for Spurs?  Tottenham appears to have beaten competition from AC Milan,
Juventus and Roma to sign Brazil striker  Luis Fabiano , who’s
ready to leave Seville, the  Sun said.   Manager  Harry Redknapp  tried to sign the player before the
season, but Seville gave Fabiano a deal through 2013, the
newspaper said. Spurs may bid 14 million pounds ($22.5 million)
to win the player, the Sun said.  Neville’s Start  Gary Neville will start his Manchester United coaching
career this week by overseeing the training of some of the
club’s younger players, the  Daily Mail said.   While the 35-year-old former captain won’t have an official
role, the training is part of a plan to make him into a coach,
with the possibility of taking over United’s reserve team next
season, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 