-- 
Leering Rocker Tyler Lifts ‘Idol,’ Cozy Piers Morgan Sinks: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-02-17T13:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/louche-rocker-tyler-lifts-american-idol-cozy-piers-morgan-sinks-review.html
A month into the season that doubters
predicted could end the reign of TV juggernaut “ American Idol ,”
new judges  Steven Tyler  and  Jennifer Lopez  have done more than
win over skeptics. They’ve made “American Idol” fun again.  That the rock star and the pop singer could vanquish
memories of judges Kara DioGuardi and Ellen DeGeneres should
surprise nobody. That they’ve nearly done the same for the
presumably irreplaceable  Simon Cowell  is a small miracle.  In its 10th season, “Idol” remains a ratings powerhouse,
typically grabbing more than 20 million viewers a night. Still,
several seasons of mediocre winners, last year’s misguided
switch to a four-judge panel and a timid performance by
DeGeneres left it looking like a warhorse past its prime.  Enter Tyler, the longtime  Aerosmith  frontman who bashed out
an impromptu drum solo during an unplanned pause in the
competition. Who better than a rock star to get the party
restarted?  With his streaked tresses, jangling bracelets, comically big
mouth and cheekbones so unnaturally taut they make a mockery of
conventional rock-star indifference -- no craggy  Keith Richards 
here -- Tyler is a new thing on the prime-time stage: a louche,
semi-reformed reprobate rock god who seems to have stumbled into
the wrong studio.  But then he closes his eyes and listens, really listens, to
the contestants. The man takes this stuff seriously, and his
enthusiasm is contagious.  Lascivious Leers  Early in the season, “Idol” producers made the mistake of
showboating Tyler’s bad-boy persona with camera shots
telegraphing every lascivious leer. The ploy seemed less
offensive than hokey. Tyler, whose arena-honed banshee shriek
can signal either pleasure or impatience, needs no help getting
his points across.  Lopez, too, has carved herself a comfortable niche. She does
heart and empathy as well as Paula Abdul ever did, and without
the loopy incoherence. By season’s end, Lopez just might beat
Tyler for the as yet unfilled arbiter role left vacant by
Cowell. The question of which judge will emerge more equal than
the others could prove as compelling a competition as anything
onstage.  And then there’s Randy Jackson. It’s hard not to feel a
little sympathy for the show’s original No. 3 as he maneuvers to
find a new place in the hierarchy. His attempts at Simonesque
sarcasm come off less like truth-telling than the crankiness of
a veteran outplayed by upstarts.    American Idol ” airs Wednesday and Thursday on Fox at 8 p.m.
New York time.  Rating: ***.  Piers Morgan  Unlike “American Idol,”  CNN  isn’t having much luck with its
latest replacement. “Piers Morgan Tonight,” now a month into its
run in the 9 p.m. weeknight spot long held by  Larry King , is
losing viewers. No mystery why: The  program , to put it as
bluntly as the “ America’s Got Talent ” judge himself might, is
too often a bore.  More than 2 million viewers watched Morgan’s opening night
on Jan. 17, a figure boosted by the presence of inaugural guest
Oprah Winfrey. By late January, viewership was slipping to fewer
than 500,000. CNN reportedly has hired Barbara Walters’s former
booker to land better guests. Getting them will be just the
beginning.  Morgan’s cozy treatment of Winfrey was understandable. She
is, after all,  Oprah Winfrey . Then he showed similar deference
to some self-proclaimed exorcist or the Bravo channel’s newly
appointed love guru. A new strategy is all but demanded.  The host occasionally shows flashes of the bite that earned
his reputation as a droller Simon Cowell.  Cowed Cowell  “Why not just get over it?” he asked the Winklevoss twins
about their battle with Facebook cofounder  Mark Zuckerberg . He
was no doubt speaking for anyone who saw “The  Social Network .”  More often he seems less Cowell than cowed. He opened his
exclusive interview with Janet Jackson on Feb. 15 by informing
viewers that “she said I could ask her anything,” then spent the
next hour asking anything but what most viewers might hope. When
Jackson confided her addiction to caramel apples, the ostensible
bad boy of British TV cooed, “Oooh, they’re nice.”    Piers Morgan  Tonight” airs weeknights on CNN at 9 p.m. New
York time.  Rating: *½.    Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 