-- 
Pan Pacific, Tongling Win Copper Fee Hike From BHP

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-02-17T08:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/pan-pacific-tongling-win-copper-fee-hike-in-change-to-six-month-contract.html
Pan Pacific Copper Co., Japan’s top
copper smelter, and Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. secured
an increase in copper processing fees this year from mining
companies in a move to six-month as well as annual contracts.  Pan Pacific agreed to $70 a metric ton for treatment fees
and 7 cents a pound for refining in the first half with  BHP
Billiton Ltd . and $56 and 5.6 cents for the full year with  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc ., said two executives with
knowledge of the matter. Tongling,  China ’s second-biggest
smelter, set $72 a ton and 7.2 cents a pound with BHP for the
first half, the company said on Feb. 15. The fees were $46.5 and
4.65 cents in 2010.  Copper, used in cables, wires and pipes, jumped to a record
$10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest
mining company after BHP and  Vale SA , forecast prices will stay
high before supply from new projects alleviates a shortage.
Treatment fees climb when ore supply increases as miners compete
for smelting capacity. Global output will trail demand by
822,000 tons in 2011,  Barclays Capital  said last month.  “This year is unprecedented as the industry has set two
representative fees for the first time -- one for annual and the
other for semi-annual contracts,” Takashi Murata, an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo, said by phone
today. “The increase was smaller than smelters had hoped.”  Higher Fees  JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp., which owns 66 percent of
Pan Pacific, sought processing charges near $80 a ton and 8
cents a pound this year as spot fees jumped to $80 to $90 and to
8 to 9 cents from below $10 and 1 cent in the middle of last
year, Masanori Okada, chief executive officer of the company,
said Dec. 16. The company is a unit of  JX Holdings Inc .  Pan Pacific also settled with an unidentified South
American mine at $80 and 8 cents for this year, the company said
Jan. 24. BHP and Freeport won a 38 percent cut in fees last year
as smelters competed for tight supplies of concentrate.    Mitsubishi Materials Corp ., Japan’s third-largest copper
producer, had settled processing fees with BHP and Freeport,
spokesman Hisato Matsubara said Jan. 24, declining to elaborate.  Calls to Phoenix, Arizona-based Freeport outside of office
hours today were not answered. Fiona Martin, spokeswoman for
Melbourne-based BHP, declined to comment.  All the agreements in China were signed for the first half,
according to Yang Changhua, a senior copper analyst at metals
researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. “The
miners have bargaining chips, given the tight market,” Yang
said. “As they prefer signing the deal every six months, it’ll
probably be agreed by smelters.”  First Time  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. and Hindalco Industries
Ltd.,  India ’s biggest copper processors, won a 20 percent
increase in fees to $56 a ton and 5.6 cents a pound, according
to two people with knowledge of the talks.  Copper mining companies and smelters agreed to the first
settlements on fees,  Aurubis AG  said in its Feb. 15 report.
“The usual benchmark process has been changed for the first
time in years and different fixation periods agreed of between
three and 12 months,” it said.  Treatment fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The fees are deducted from the price paid by
smelters to mining companies for the raw material.  The fees are typically negotiated twice a year, with most
of the volume handled through the year-end accords. In July,
fees were set at $39 and 3.9 cents for contracts that began July
1. Declines in fees reduce revenue for smelters.  More Risk  Asked if the price agreements were following the example of
the  steel industry  that ended a decades-old system of annual
contract talks in favor of quarterly accords, Murata said: “It
may be a temporary phenomenon” as spot fees rose unexpectedly
during the negotiation period as mine supplies increased.  “A shorter contract period may mean more risk for smelters,
if the market is expected to face tighter supplies of raw
material,” he said.  Copper for three-month delivery gained 0.2 percent to
$9,857 a ton today on the London Metal Exchange and is up 2.7
percent this year.  --Helen Sun, with assistance from Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo,
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul , Xiao Yu in Beijing, Abhishek Shanker in
Mumbai and Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore . Editors: James Poole, Jarrett Banks  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;  Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  