-- 
Pandit Says New U.S. Bank Rules May Squeeze Credit Due to Lenders' Costs

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-02-17T21:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/pandit-says-new-u-s-bank-rules-may-squeeze-credit-due-to-lenders-costs.html
  Citigroup Inc . Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said new U.S. banking rules may mean
tighter credit and less access for borrowers because of costs
imposed on lenders.  “Millions of people don’t have bank accounts,” Pandit,
54, said today during a speech in  Chicago . “Recent reforms
could unintentionally make this problem worse.”  Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, supported
legislation curbing payment-card fees and the Dodd-Frank law to
prevent new financial shocks, Pandit said. The rules include
limits on interchange and overdraft fees, which will mean
tighter margins, he said. The result will be new fees and cost
structures, and banks may have to trim branch networks, he said.  The  Federal Reserve  proposed a 12-cent cap on interchange
or “swipe” fees charged to merchants on each transaction.
Under that plan, the largest U.S. banks stand to lose more than
$12 billion in revenue. The cap was favored by retailers, which
stand to benefit from lower fees.  “We could be heading for an environment in which less
credit is available, access to financial services contracts, and
the costs of such services rise,” Pandit said. “All of that
will have an impact on financial inclusion.”  Swipe Fees  The cap on swipe fees, scheduled to take effect in July,
may be delayed amid criticism from Republican and Democrat
lawmakers as well as regulators and finance-industry lobbyists.
The Fed must complete work on the cap provision by April 21.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told the Senate Banking Committee
today that the central bank was “not certain” about an
exemption in the law for institutions with less than $10 billion
in assets. Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  told the House
Financial Services Committee that the rule could result in
significant market changes.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  told
the Senate committee that rulemaking by the Fed wasn’t “as
thorough as it might have been.” Asked after the hearing
whether she was suggesting a delay, Bair said, “That’s
Congress’s call. But I do think there are some policy issues
that could be thought through a little bit more before this
thing gets implemented.”  Citigroup, based in New York, was the fourth-largest bank
by deposits at the end of 2010 after Bank of America Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . On a call with
analysts last year, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said
that “debit purchase is not a significant business for us.”  Consumer Banking  The U.S. consumer-banking unit of Citigroup had a $607
million profit in 2010, down 17 percent from the previous year.
Pandit overhauled the unit last year, appointing Judson Linville
as head of credit cards and Cecelia “Cece” Stewart as head of
the retail bank.  Citigroup received a $45 billion bailout during the
financial crisis, some of which the U.S. Treasury Department
converted into a stake in the lender last year. The government
sold its remaining common shares in December, contributing to an
overall profit of about $12 billion for taxpayers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 