-- 
Pernod Earnings Growth Misses Estimates on Increased Marketing Expenses

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-17T10:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/pernod-earnings-growth-misses-estimates-on-increased-marketing-expenses.html
  Pernod-Ricard SA , the maker of
Absolut vodka, reported first-half earnings growth that missed
analysts’ estimates after it boosted spending on advertising and
promotions to drive sales of major brands in emerging markets.  Earnings before interest and taxes, excluding the effect of
acquisitions and disposals, rose 8 percent in the six months
ended Dec. 31, less than the average 9 percent increase
predicted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue excluding
acquisitions advanced 7 percent, the company said today in a
statement. That missed estimates for a 7.7 percent increase.  Pernod declined as much as 4.2 percent, or 2.98 euros, to
67.65 euros in Paris trading and was down 3.6 percent at 11:23
a.m. The stock has gained 19 percent in the last 12 months.  The distiller increased advertising and promotional
spending “absolutely in line with what we said when we started
the year,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said in a
telephone interview. “We need to invest more in the fast-
developing markets, but we also need to invest in markets
including the U.S., where there are some good signs that the
market could recover, even slowly.”  Pernod and other liquor makers are increasing spending on
their major brands and in emerging markets to drive growth as
record budget deficits force cutbacks by European governments,
puncturing  consumer confidence  and reducing sales of spirits.  Competitor Diageo  Diageo said Feb. 10 that it increased so-called organic
marketing spending by 10 percent, with more than half focused on  developing countries . Pernod raised its spending to 17.9 percent
of sales in the fiscal first half from 17 percent a year
earlier, reaching the same level as “before the crisis,” the
CEO said.  Pernod and Diageo are “showing no real operating
leverage” by increasing such expenditure,  Matthew Jordan , an
analyst at Matrix Group in London, wrote today.  Pernod raised its full-year profit target today after it
sold more expensive liquor in countries including China in the
first half. Organic Ebit will be close to 7 percent, up from
previous guidance for a gain of close to 6 percent, the Paris-
based distiller said.  “Business was buoyant in emerging markets and the group
also benefitted from a gradual recovery in  North America  and an
improvement in Western  Europe ,” the company said.  Exceeding Expectations  Jason DeRise, an analyst at UBS in London, said the company
may do better than it predicts. “Typically Pernod guides
conservatively, and we would view this guidance as conservative
as well,” he said.  Total revenue advanced 13 percent to 4.28 billion euros,
helped by the strengthening of the  U.S. dollar  to the euro. Net
income rose 10 percent to 666 million euros.  Sales at Pernod’s Europe unit, which garners about 31
percent of revenue, rose 2 percent, led by countries in central
and Eastern Europe. The company said it had “moderate” growth
in western Europe. Organic revenue gained 5 percent in  France  on
increased sales of Pernod’s “Top 14” brands, which include
Ricard and Mumm champagne. The company declares results from its
home market separately from the rest of Europe.  Diageo has declined almost 5 percent in  London  trading
since its results missed estimates on sluggish demand in Europe.
The company, based in the U.K. capital, reported sales and
profit growth that was slower than Pernod’s.  ‘Robust’ Europe  “Although, as Diageo highlighted, Spain and  Greece  are
likely to have been tough, these are relatively small parts of
the group’s European exposure,” Andrew Holland, an analyst at
Evolution Securities in London, wrote in a note before Pernod’s
report. “Pernod is skewed more to the still-robust markets of
France and  Germany  and higher-growth central and eastern Europe
regions.” He has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Profit was aided by the “Top 14” brands, which increased
revenue more than volume. Martell cognac sales surged 32 percent
on an organic basis, while Absolut vodka’s 7 percent gain
“confirmed the recovery initiated” in the second half of last
year in the U.S., Pernod said.  Sales of the more expensive brands, which include Glenlivet
and Chivas Regal whiskies and Havana Club rum, are “further
evidence” that consumers are returning to premium drinks,
analysts including Andy Smith at MF Global wrote today.  Asian consumers are buying more Scotch whisky and cognac,
according to Pernod, which estimates that it controls about half
of the Chinese whisky market and 40 percent of the cognac
market, and is the market leader in higher-priced cognac.  Chinese New Year  Revenue in the   Asia  and the rest of the world” unit,
which contributed 30 percent of profit in the last fiscal year,
soared 17 percent. Early shipments of spirits to  China  and sales
before the Chinese New Year, when celebrants traditionally give
expensive gifts, “magnified” sales, Pernod said.  Operating profit in the Americas unit edged up 1 percent,
the company said, as it increased advertising spending and
boosted the sales force in the U.S.,  Brazil  and  Mexico . Sales in
the U.S. rose between zero and 0.5 percent, Pringuet said.  “The market is recovering” in the U.S., Pringuet said.
“That’s why we decided to reinvest significantly, and
particularly on Absolut.”  Diageo Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said last
week that the company “feels really good” about the North
American market, though it remains “fragile.”  Pernod, which has the highest net debt to Ebitda ratio of
the major European distillers according to Bloomberg data, said
today that it reduced debt by 864 million euros.  The French company has sold units including the Wild Turkey
bourbon brand to cut borrowings after buying V&S Vin & Sprit AB
in 2008. Pernod has no plans to make acquisitions, Pringuet said
in January. He declined to comment on a report today in the  Daily Telegraph  that the company may be interested in buying  Fortune Brands Inc .’s spirits portfolio, or part of it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 