-- 
Peru’s Sol Rises to 34-Month High as Profit Tax Concern Eases

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-02-17T22:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/peru-s-sol-rises-to-34-month-high-as-profit-tax-concern-eases.html
  Peru ’s sol rose to the strongest
level since May 2008 as traders bet that new tax rules won’t
curb trading in dollar forwards.  The sol gained 0.1 percent 2.7663 per  U.S. dollar , from
2.7680 yesterday.  Demand for soles is recovering after the currency dropped
to a two-week low on Feb. 15 as Congress published changes to a
tax law that traders feared may require local banks to pay taxes
on profit from trading in dollar forwards with non-residents.  Traders now expect the changes won’t affect forwards
trading, although some uncertainty will remain until the details
of the regulation are published, said Fernando Palma, a market
and client strategist at  BBVA Banco Continental , the country’s
second-largest lender.  “The publication of the rules should let the market get
back to normal,” Palma said. “In the medium term, the sol
should strengthen because of expected inflows.”  Foreign investment, lured by Peru’s rising interest rates,
has fueled a 1.5 percent gain in the sol this year, the second-
best advance among six Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after the  Mexican peso .  The sol may appreciate to 2.71 per dollar in 2011 as the
central bank raises its benchmark rate to 4.5 percent by the end
of this year from 3.5 percent now, BBVA said last week in a note
to clients.  A seasonal increase in dollar supplies at the end of March
as exporters pay local taxes will probably spur gains in the
sol, Palma said.  The central bank didn’t buy dollars in the foreign exchange
market today or issue certificates of deposit payable in
dollars.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.05 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  