-- 
Pound Climbs as BOE’s Sentance Says Interest Rates Should Rise

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-17T17:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/pound-gains-versus-dollar-and-euro-after-sentance-says-rates-should-rise.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar and the euro after  Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the bank should raise interest rates to boost the
British currency as a means of curbing inflation.  Sterling advanced against a basket of nine developed-nation
peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. Policy makers can’t be “relaxed” about the pound’s
exchange rate, as a modest appreciation in the currency would
help curb above-target inflation, Sentance said in a speech in
London. U.K. government bonds rose for a second day after a sale
of 10-year gilts.  “There is an internal battle going on between the doves
and the hawks on the Monetary Policy Committee, which is causing
a lot of volatility in the pound,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in  London . “Sentance is trying to gather support to get the
middle-of-the-road members on the MPC to move toward his hawkish
camp, and that’s causing people to re-establish their bullish
sterling positions.”  The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.6163 as of 4:49 p.m. in
London, and strengthened 0.2 percent versus the euro to 84.13
pence. The British currency gained 0.4 percent versus the
Swedish krona and 0.3 percent against the Norwegian krone.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell five basis points to
3.76 percent. Two-year note yields were four basis points lower
at 1.46 percent.  ‘Modest Appreciation’  “One of the benefits which we might see from a policy of
raising  interest rates  is a modest appreciation of sterling,
which would mitigate the impact of global inflationary pressures
in the short term and help to steer inflation back to target
over the medium term,” Sentance said in today’s speech.  The Bank of England has faced mounting pressure to raise
interest rates from a record low of 0.5 percent after inflation
exceeded its target for more than a year. A Feb. 15 report
showed consumer prices jumped 4 percent in January from a year
earlier, forcing central bank Governor Mervyn King to write a
fifth letter to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain why
it remains above the 3 percent upper limit.  King yesterday called the spurt in inflation temporary,
saying in his letter to Chancellor  George Osborne  that raising
rates quickly to tame the surge may hurt the economy. The rate
of price growth may peak at about 4.4 percent this year before
falling to the central bank’s 2 percent target by the middle of
2012, the bank said in its quarterly inflation report.  Sonia Rates  “King is loath to raise interest rates,” said Jones. “A
hybrid of fiscal and monetary tightening will be a killer for
the recovery.”  Money markets signal the Bank of England may boost its  bank
rate  three times by January. Investors have factored in a 25
basis-point increase by June, with another quarter percentage
point move by the October meeting, according to trading in the
Sterling Overnight Interbank Average, or Sonia, Tullett Prebon
Plc data shows.  Traders scaled back bets on higher borrowing costs today,
with the implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract slipping four basis points to 1.67 percent.  Concern about inflation is mounting at the same time as the
deepest government budget cuts since World War II are being
implemented. A Jan. 25 report showed the economy unexpectedly
shrank by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government is trying to reduce the
fiscal deficit from an estimated 10 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March to 1.9 percent by 2015.  Gilt Sale  An index of factory orders rose in February on a surge in
exports, while “very intense” inflationary pressures continued
to build, the  Confederation of British Industry  said today. The
orders gauge gained to minus 8 from minus 16 in January, with a
measure of exports advancing to its highest since 1995, the
nation’s biggest business lobby group said.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, fell 3.6 basis points to 3.18 percent, the
lowest level since Jan. 26.  Britain sold 2.75 billion pounds of 3.75 percent bonds due
September 2020, at an average yield of 3.89 percent, compared
with 3.69 percent at a previous sale of the securities on Jan.6,
according to the Debt Management Office. Investors bid for 2.1
times the securities offered, the debt agency said, compared
with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.0 at the earlier
auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  