-- 
Pound Fluctuates Before Release of U.K. Factory Index; U.K. Preps Auction

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-17T07:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/pound-fluctuates-before-release-of-u-k-factory-index-u-k-preps-auction.html
The pound fluctuated against the
dollar and the euro before the release of a U.K. gauge of
factory sentiment.  The index of factory orders, based on a survey of 430
manufacturers rose to minus 9 in February, up from minus 16 the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
polled by Bloomberg. The  Confederation of British Industry , the
nation’s biggest business lobby group, is scheduled to release
the data at 11 a.m. in London.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6118 at 7:34 a.m. in
London. Sterling was little changed at 84.24 pence per euro from
84.30 pence yesterday.  Britain’s currency slumped yesterday against all of its 16
most-actively traded peers and government bond yields sank after
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said borrowing costs may
need to stay at a record low to revive the economy.  “Some people are running ahead of themselves in saying
that we are pre-announcing, or we’re laying the ground, for a
rate rise,” King told reporters following the release of the
central bank’s quarterly inflation report. “That decision has
not been taken and it won’t be taken until we get to the next
meeting, or the following meeting. It may be many quarters
before we do anything.”  The  Bank of England  has faced mounting pressure to raise  interest rates  from a record low of 0.5 percent after inflation
exceeded its target for more than a year. A Feb. 15 report
showed consumer prices jumped 4 percent in January from a year
earlier, forcing King to write another letter to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to explain why it remains above the
3 percent upper limit.  Inflation in the U.K. may peak at about 4.4 percent this
year before reaching the central bank’s 2 percent target by the
middle of 2012, the Bank of England said.  The U.K. plans to sell 2.75 billion pounds of 3.75 percent
2020 gilts today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  