-- 
PPR Chief Pinault to Run Luxury Unit as Profit Rises

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-02-17T17:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/ppr-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-luxury-growth.html
  PPR  SA, the French owner of Gucci
and online retailer Redcats, said Chief Executive Officer
Francois-Henri Pinault will take control of its luxury division
after the unit helped 2010 profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose to 964.5 million euros ($1.3 billion) from
950.9 million euros, Paris-based PPR said today in a  statement .
Profit exceeded the 933.4 million-euro average of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest and
taxes, excluding one-time items and figures from divisions that
were sold, rose 24 percent to 1.53 billion euros.  Pinault will run the Gucci Group luxury division directly
when Robert Polet, currently head of the unit, leaves the
company March 1, PPR said in a separate statement. Gucci Group
Chief Operating Officer Alexis Babeau will become the division’s
deputy CEO. Each of the unit’s brands, which also include  Yves
Saint Laurent  and  Bottega Veneta , will retain autonomy under its
respective CEO and creative director, the company said.  “There was very little within the numbers that wasn’t a
little bit better than expected,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst
at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London . “We thought Robert Polet
would leave at some stage, so whether it’s now, or a year ago,
or a year’s time, doesn’t make an enormous difference.” Irwin
recommends buying the stock.  PPR rose 2.2 percent to 115.85 euros in Paris trading
today. That pared the stock’s decline this year to 2.7 percent,
valuing the company at 14.7 billion euros.  Disposals  PPR is reorganizing around  luxury goods  and sports and
lifestyle brands. After spinning off African distribution unit
CFAO in December 2009, PPR agreed on Jan. 31 to sell furniture
retailer Conforama to  Steinhoff International Holdings Ltd . for
1.21 billion euros. PPR plans also to dispose of Redcats and the
Fnac retail chain.  Though the environment for disposals is “much better”
than before, any transactions will depend on potential buyers’
financing abilities, Pinault said today at a presentation in
Paris. PPR will try to get the “highest price possible” for
the assets, the CEO said.  PPR is in a “healthy” position to buy companies and is
looking at “many” opportunities, particularly in the sports
and lifestyle segment, Pinault said. Even so, PPR isn’t
dependent on acquisitions for growth and will focus on boosting
sales at existing brands, the CEO said.  Any takeovers will depend on a number of factors, including
a target’s willingness to sell, he said. No purchase will exceed
the 5.3 billion euros that PPR paid for two-thirds of sporting-
goods maker Puma AG in 2007, Pinault said.  Revenue Growth  “Robust revenue growth” is expected in 2011, the company
said. PPR will “deliver a better financial performance than in
2010” as Latin American and Asian shoppers spend more on luxury
at home and overseas, Pinault said.  U.S. sales by the Gucci brand, which were affected by a
drop in wholesale revenue in the first half of 2010, have been
“very good” this year, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Palus said. The brand’s sales this year in  China  are “extremely
encouraging,” Palus said.  Gucci Group will increase capital expenditure by a
“double-digit” percentage in 2011 as it opens more stores,
particularly in Asia and  Brazil , Palus said. The unit will open
about the same number of stores this year as it did in 2010,
Pinault said.  The luxury division will raise prices this year, Pinault
said. Redcats will also increase prices because of rising cotton
costs, said Jean-Michel Noir, CEO of the unit.  Sales Rise  PPR’s full-year sales increased 7.5 percent to 14.6 billion
euros, propelled by a 23 percent increase in fourth-quarter
revenue at Gucci Group. The operating margin at divisions PPR
still owns widened to 10.5 percent from 9.1 percent. Net income
from discontinued or sold operations was 200 million euros, the
company said. The company plans to raise the dividend by 6.1
percent to 3.50 euros a share.  Fourth-quarter revenue, excluding Conforama and following a
restatement at Puma because of “fraud and irregularities” at a
joint venture in  Greece , climbed 9.6 percent to 4.25 billion
euros, PPR said.  Revenue at Gucci Group rose to 1.15 billion euros in the
quarter, PPR said. Sales climbed 23 percent at the Gucci brand,
40 percent at Bottega Veneta and 24 percent at Yves Saint
Laurent. Fourth-quarter sales rose 0.1 percent at Fnac, 2.2
percent at Redcats and 28 percent at Puma, PPR said.  As part of the reorganization, Puma Chairman Jochen Zeitz
will relocate to Paris, Pinault said. Separately, Yves Saint
Laurent CEO Valerie Hermann will step down and be replaced by
Paul Deneve, a former executive at French fashion house Lanvin,
Pinault said. Hermann has decided to take up a new opportunity
in the U.S. which will be announced tomorrow, PPR spokeswoman
Charlotte Judet said by e-mail, declining to comment further.  Polet said at the presentation that he’s weighing several
options and is ruling out retiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  