-- 
Progress Energy Won’t Finish New Reactors Before 2020

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-02-18T20:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/progress-energy-won-t-build-new-reactors-before-2020.html
(Corrects headline, schedule for reactor construction in
first paragraph of story published Feb. 17.)    Progress Energy Inc . has pushed back
the scheduled completion of planned new nuclear reactors in  Florida  and  North Carolina  until after 2020, Chief Executive
Officer William Johnson said.  “The timetable for those plants has slipped,” Johnson
said today at a Platts nuclear-energy conference in Rockville,
Maryland. “They’re now 2020 or later.”  Progress, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, remains
“committed to nuclear expansion” and may buy stakes in other
reactor projects, said Johnson, whose company agreed last month
to be bought by  Duke Energy Corp . of Charlotte, North Carolina.  The company’s own reactor construction plans will be “much
more feasible” after the merger because of the combined
companies’ “much bigger balance sheet,” he said. The cost of
building a two-reactor nuclear plant is about $13 billion,
Johnson said.  Progress had “casual conversations” with  Scana Corp . and
state-owned utility Santee Cooper about taking a stake in the
reactor project near Jenkinsville, South Carolina, Johnson said
today in an interview. Talks will get “more realistic” when
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission grants a construction and
operating license for the plant, he said.  The U.S. hasn’t issued a new construction license for a
nuclear power plant in more than 30 years. Cayce, South
Carolina-based Scana’s project and Atlanta-based  Southern Co .’s
planned reactors in Georgia probably will be the first to win
licenses from the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  and start
construction, Johnson said.  Power companies that want to build their own reactors need
to help Scana and Southern “as much as we can” to make sure
the first plants are built profitably, Johnson said.  “These are going to be the harbingers of success in this
industry,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  