-- 
Prokhorov Awarded French Legion of Honor After ‘Pimping’ Probe

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-02-17T13:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/prokhorov-awarded-french-legion-of-honor-after-pimping-probe.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  will receive France’s highest award, the Legion of
Honor, four years after being detained there on suspicion of
what authorities called “pimping.”  The New Jersey Nets basketball club owner will receive the
Chevalier, or Knight, designation of the decoration at a
ceremony at the French Embassy in Moscow on March 14, an
official in the embassy’s press service said by phone today,
declining to be identified because of government policy.  The honor is recognition of Prokhorov’s efforts to deepen
cultural ties between the two countries, the official said.
Prokhorov sponsored a number of events in 2010, dubbed the
“Year of Russia” in France and the “Year of France” in  Russia , including a French literary event in Siberia and an
exhibit about Siberia in Lyon, the official said.  French police held Prokhorov for several days in January
2007 in the ski resort of Courchevel, where he was vacationing
with a group of friends that included eight young women who were
mistakenly believed to be prostitutes, the billionaire said in
an interview last year. French state prosecutor Xavier Richaud
said by phone after Prokhorov’s release that the billionaire had
nothing to do with “pimping.”  As late as February 2009, Prokhorov, according to his
Onexim Group holding company, refused to do business with  France 
until the government apologized, which it did last year.  Onexim 
now has an agreement with French energy services company 
Dalkia SA to work on energy-saving projects in Russia.  The investor, who owns stakes in aluminum producer United
Co. Rusal, investment bank Renaissance Capital and OAO Polyus
Gold, increased his wealth by almost $5 billion last year to
$22.7 billion, making him the second-richest Russian, Moscow-
based Finans magazine said in its annual rich list published
this week. Only OAO Novolipetsk Steel owner  Vladimir Lisin ’s
$28.3 billion fortune is bigger, according to Finans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  