-- 
Public Worker Protests Spread From Wisconsin to Ohio

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-18T15:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/public-employee-union-protests-spread-from-wisconsin-to-ohio.html
In what union leaders say is
becoming a national fight, protests against legislation to
restrict public employees’ collective-bargaining rights spread
from Wisconsin to  Ohio .  In Madison, Wisconsin, crowds that police estimated at
25,000 engulfed the Capitol and its lawns yesterday during a
third-straight day of protests as Democratic senators fled the
legislative session. In Columbus, Ohio, about 3,800 state
workers, teachers and other public employees came to the
statehouse for a committee hearing. President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohioan, argued over whether the
bills are “an assault on unions.”  Ohio firefighters Dave Hefflinger and Jerry Greer said they
were. They stood near hundreds of workers elbow-to-elbow in the
statehouse atrium and listened to a Senate hearing through
speakers. Chants of “Kill the bill” echoed.  “We’re here to support our brothers and sisters,”
Hefflinger, a 27-year veteran, said in an interview. “They’re
trying to take away what we fought for all of these years.”  Hefflinger, 49, and Greer, 39, members of the department in
Findlay, Ohio, drove two hours south to protest the bill. The
measure would eliminate collective bargaining for state workers,
prevent local-government employees from negotiating for health
insurance and replace salary schedules with merit pay.  With states facing deficits that may reach a combined  $125
billion  next year, Republican governors including  Wisconsin ’s
Scott Walker, Ohio’s John Kasich and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie 
are targeting changes in rules for collective bargaining and
worker contributions for health-care coverage and pensions.  Wisconsin Walkouts  In Wisconsin, Walker championed a bill that would make
public workers bargain only for wages and require them to pay
5.8 percent of their pension costs; they pay nothing now. They
would have to foot 12 percent of their health-care premiums, up
from 6 percent. Police and firefighters wouldn’t be covered by
the measure.  Fourteen Democratic senators disappeared from the Capitol
yesterday, just as the Senate was about to begin debating,
according to the  Associated Press . Their flight brought the
debate to a swift halt by denying the chamber a quorum, the news
agency said.  ‘Don’t Blink’  Yesterday, University of Wisconsin-Madison students walked
out of classes at the urging of student government and  campus
newspapers  and marched to the Capitol, about a mile away. There,
they joined protesters who filled the rotunda to chant, bang
drums and sing, and spilled outside.  In a telephone interview Feb. 15, Walker said he spoke with
Kasich about the demonstrations. When asked for advice, Walker
said, “Don’t blink.”  The White House’s political operation, Organizing for
America, helped to build crowds using social media, the
Washington Post reported today, citing an unidentified
Democratic Party official. Obama himself spoke to Milwaukee
television station WTMJ.  “Some of what I’ve heard coming out of Wisconsin, where
they’re just making it harder for public employees to
collectively bargain generally, seems like more of an assault on
unions,” the president said.  Boehner, a Republican from a Cincinnati suburb, responded
with a statement saying he was “disappointed” that Obama
criticized Walker.  Dire Challenges  “Republicans in Congress -- and reform-minded GOP
governors like  Scott Walker , John Kasich and Chris Christie --
are daring to speak the truth about the dire fiscal challenges
Americans face at all levels of government, and daring to commit
themselves to solutions that will liberate our economy and help
put our citizens on a path to prosperity,” Boehner said.  The bills are state-level skirmishes in a national battle,
and the purpose is to undermine labor unions and the Democrats
they support, said John Russo, a professor and co-director of
the  Center for Working-Class Studies  at Youngstown State
University in Ohio.  “It’s really an ideological battle that’s being fought
across the country right now,” Russo said yesterday in an
interview while waiting to testify before the Ohio Senate
Insurance, Commerce and Labor Committee. “This is a real
teaching moment. Let’s have this debate about the role of the
public sector.”  There were 50 witnesses scheduled, and Chairman Kevin Bacon
said the committee would hear them without a break.  “This is a true test of democracy,” Bacon said.  Biggest Crowd  The statehouse spokesman, Gregg Dodd, estimated the crowd
at about 3,800 and said it was the largest gathering inside the
statehouse since it was renovated in 1996.  Mixing with protesters were members of Tea Party groups who
staged their own rally in support of the legislation.  Mike Wilson, who founded the Cincinnati Tea Party, said the
bill is an effort to restore balance between governments and
their workers, who he said are overpaid.  “This bill is not on attack on public employees; it is not
an attack on the middle class,” Wilson, 34, a technology
consultant, said at the rally. “This bill is about math.”  Joe Rugola, the former president of the Ohio AFL-CIO who
also is executive director of the Ohio Association of Public
School Employees, said he represents bus drivers and janitors
who earn about $24,000 a year.  “I’m still looking for this privileged class of workers,”
Rugola said in an interview while waiting to testify. “This is
just part of a national attack on working people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  