-- 
Qatar Shares Fall, Bahrain Credit Risk Soars on Concern Unrest May Spread

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-17T11:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/qatar-shares-retreat-to-two-week-low-on-concern-bahrain-unrest-may-spread.html
Qatar benchmark stock index fell
to the lowest this year and Bahrain's 2020 dollar bond dropped 
to a record on concern unrest in the  Persian Gulf  may spread
after protests escalated in Bahrain.    Qatar National Bank, the country’s biggest lender, lost
2.9 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index  declined 1.3 percent to 8,703.07,
the lowest since Dec. 30, at the 1:10 p.m. close in Doha,
bringing the drop for the week to 2.8 percent. Bahrain’s 10-year
dollar bond maturing in 2020 fell for an eighth day. The
country’s BB All Share Index gained 0.6 percent as 79,050 shares
traded. Markets in the  United Arab Emirates ,  Kuwait  and Oman are
closed today for an Islamic holiday, while Saudi Arabia’s is
shut for the weekend.  Investors are “de-risking due to the events in Bahrain
mainly,” said Mahdi Mattar, head of research at Abu Dhabi-based
CAPM Investment PJSC, an investment banking company. “Both
local and the few international investors might want to reduce
their exposure” amid the unrest and as most markets are shut.  Bahrain’s police fired tear gas at protesters this morning
after hundreds gathered yesterday at the funeral of a
demonstrator who died in clashes on Feb. 15. Protesters are
demanding democracy and the ouster of Prime Minister Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, a member of the Sunni Muslim
royal family who has held the post for four decades. The Bahrain
Youth Society for Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement
today that two people were killed in clashes overnight.  Regional Instability  Protests in Bahrain, Yemen and  Iran  have raised concern
about instability in a region that holds about three-fifths of
global oil reserves. Sunni-ruled Bahrain, home to the U.S.
Navy’s Fifth Fleet, and its neighbor  Saudi Arabia , the largest
Arab economy and world’s biggest oil exporter, are U.S. allies.  Today’s trading volume in Bahrain compares to a 12-month
daily average of 2.3 million shares, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  National Bank of Bahrain , which has a weighting of
9.1 percent in the country’s benchmark index, was the only share
to gain today as three trades were made. The stock jumped 8.8
percent to 0.74 dinars.  The yield on the 2020 bond rose 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.51 percent, at 1:58 p.m. in the capital
Manama, according to prices on Bloomberg. The risk to insure
Bahraini debt for five years against default soared about 18
basis points, from the close in  London , to 286, according to CMA
prices.  Qatar National decreased to 134 riyals, the lowest since
Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  