-- 
Rail Opening to China’s Inland Benefits Daqin: Freight Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T00:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/rail-opening-to-china-s-inland-benefits-daqin-freight-markets.html
China plans to spend at least $1.3
trillion over the next five years to ease transport and freight
bottlenecks in the country, creating a windfall for companies
from Daqin Railway Co. to  Anhui Expressway Co .  Rising wages and land costs in the coastal provinces that
underpinned China’s industrial development for three decades are
forcing manufacturers including  Ford Motor Co .,  Pfizer Inc . and
Foxconn Technology Group to move production inland to cut costs.
That’s strained China’s ability to transport goods within the
country, prompting a spending program the size of the Swiss
economy in the past two years on roads, railways and airports.  “A huge part of China hasn’t been part of the global
economy,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong  who previously worked at the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of England . “As that changes, it’s
going to have a similar impact to what you saw with coastal  China  joining the world economy.”  Development of inland provinces such as Shanxi and Anhui
that hold more than half the country’s population is driving an
expansion of rail capacity that may help shares of Datong-based
Daqin Railway rise 86 percent to 16.03 yuan ($2.44), according
to Morgan Stanley. Hefei-based toll-road operator Anhui
Expressway may rise 44 percent to HK$9 ($1.15) as inland growth
is boosted by companies moving from the east coast, says
Macquarie Capital Securities.  Inland Development  China spent $569 billion on fixed-asset investment in
railways and roads over the past two years. That may help more
than double China’s share of world exports to 23 percent in the
next decade as companies move inland, according to Hong Kong-
based China International Capital Corp. economist Zhang Zhiwei.  Over the next five years China will spend as much as 3.5
trillion yuan on railway construction, 750 billion yuan on rail
rolling stock, 3.5 trillion to 4 trillion yuan on highways, 300
billion to 350 billion yuan on airports, and 900 billion yuan on
ports, according to Macquarie.  The nation’s 2 trillion yuan in spending on a high-speed
rail network will give it almost as much track by next year as
the entire rest of the world, even before the 16,000-kilometer
network is completed in 2020. More than 7,000 kilometers of
track have already been laid so far and another 6,000 kilometers
are scheduled to open by 2012.  Freeing Capacity  The new tracks are taking passenger traffic, freeing space
for cargo to be carried on existing lines. That removes “a big
logistical barrier to moving goods around” that will boost the
retail industry and help drive new clusters of industrial
development in inland cities, said Arthur Kroeber, managing
director of Beijing-based Dragonomics, an economic advisory firm
whose clients include Fortune 500 companies and  hedge funds .  Freight transported between the southern city of Guangzhou
and Wuhan in central China has more than doubled since December
2009, when a high-speed service began between the cities and
consequently increased capacity for cargo, according to the
Ministry of Railways.  Shenzhen-based Guangshen Railway Co.’s freight business
benefited from the Guangzhou-Wuhan link, and will be further
aided when the line is extended from Guangzhou to Shenzhen this
year, according to Hong Kong-based Morgan Stanley analyst Edward Xu. He expects the company’s stock price to rise 29 percent to
HK$4.08 per share.  Goldman Says Buy  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its buy recommendation
on the stock of Daqin Railway on Feb. 11, citing its price-to-
earnings ratio at 9.5 times 2011 earnings and a potential
increase in freight rates. Daqin operates China’s biggest coal
transport line, linking Datong in Shanxi province to Qinhuangdao
on the Bohai Sea east of Beijing.  China’s fixed-asset investment in highways climbed 23
percent last year to almost 1.3 trillion yuan. Construction also
began on 25 new airports across the country. The nation’s
biggest container terminal operators,  Cosco Pacific Ltd . and
China Merchants Holdings International Co., are investing in
ports along the 6,300 kilometer-long (3,915 mile-long)  Yangtze
River , which reaches  Tibet , to help alleviate congestion.  As companies move inland so toll road operators such as
Anhui Expressway and Sichuan Expressway Co. stand to benefit,
said Anderson Chow, an analyst with Macquarie in Hong Kong.  “Anhui Expressway is like a conduit for the central part
of China linking up with  Shanghai ,” said Chow. He expects the
company’s earnings per share to rise 22 percent a year on a
compounded basis through 2012. Sichuan Expressway will see
earnings per share rise 24 percent annually over the same period,
Chow estimated.  Lure of Money  The surge in investment isn’t without risks: the flow of
funds increases the threat of corruption and loans that go bad.  Railway Minister Liu Zhijun, who has overseen plans for the
nation’s high-speed rail network, was removed from his post in
the Communist Party and is under investigation for “severe”
disciplinary violations, state news agency Xinhua reported Feb.
12. Shares of companies including CSR Corp., the nation’s
biggest train maker, and China CNR Corp., the second largest,
tumbled.  The “blind pursuit” of high-speed rail is “highly likely
to develop into a debt crisis,” wrote Zhao Jian, a professor of
economics at Beijing Jiaotong University, in a commentary in the
China Daily newspaper last year.  Investments in transport links are making inland China more
attractive for manufacturers including  Taiwan ’s Foxconn, which
is expanding in Chongqing, and  Intel Corp ., which said last year
it would lay off 2,000 workers at a Shanghai plant and move some
production to Chengdu in the western province of Sichuan.  Going West  Pfizer, the world’s largest drug maker, said it will set up
a research and development center in Wuhan in central China,
while Ford’s joint venture in the country, Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile Co., announced it will invest $500 million in
Chongqing.  Improved transport links will also boost urbanization in
second-and third-tier cities in China and lead to the
construction of more affordable suburban housing, making
companies like plastic pipe maker  China Liansu Group Holdings
Ltd . one of the best ways to invest in the inland boom, said  Andy Mantel , managing director of Hong Kong-based Pacific Sun
Investment Management Ltd.’s Mantou Fund.  “The build-out of affordable housing will be a key theme
for the next five years and gigantic amounts of funds will be
earmarked for this,” said Mantel, who bought Liansu Group stock
in November.  -  Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Adam Majendie, Chris Anstey  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 panckhurst@bloomberg.net  