-- 
Randstad Triples Profit, Doesn’t Expect Costs to Fall

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-02-17T11:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/randstad-triples-profit-doesn-t-expect-costs-to-fall-update1-.html
  Randstad Holding NV , the world’s
second-largest staffing company, almost tripled fourth-quarter
profit as demand for temporary workers rose and said it expects
higher operational costs to continue in the first quarter.  “In all countries where we are present we see good
growth, and that’s exceptional when you’re present in 44
countries,” Chief Executive Officer Ben Noteboom said in a
telephone interview today. Fourth-quarter net income climbed
to 137 million euros ($186 million) from 46 million euros a
year earlier.  The company predicted first-quarter operational costs will
be in line with the fourth quarter, when expenses rose to 575
million euros from 513 million euros in the year-earlier period
as Diemen, Netherlands-based Randstad consolidated  Fujistaff
Holdings Inc . in Japan.  “That Randstad expects its operational expenses to remain
in line with the fourth quarter disappoints us a bit,” Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor Gilissen with a “buy”
recommendation on the shares, said in a note today. “The share
price fall of this morning is a bit exaggerated.”  Randstad dropped as much as 1.83 cents, or 4.4 percent,
to 40.14 euros in Amsterdam and traded at 40.46 euros as of
12:35 p.m.  Randstad, which halted dividend payments after 2008, today
proposed a dividend of 1.18 euros per share.  Netherlands Increase  The company supplies temporary workers to clients
including TNT NV,  Europe ’s second-biggest express-delivery
company, and Dutch financial-services company ABN Amro Group
NV. Randstad employs almost half a million people every day.  While overall revenue gained 22 percent, sales in the
Netherlands, the second-biggest market after  France , increased
4 percent in the last three months of 2010.  “We came from minus 14 percent in the first quarter to
plus 4 percent in the last quarter, that’s a clear trend and
when nothing exceptional happens I don’t see a reason why the
trend wouldn’t continue,” Noteboom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 