-- 
Treasuries Hold Loss Before Consumer-Prices Report, 30-Year TIPS Auction

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T03:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/treasuries-hold-loss-before-report-that-may-show-u-s-consumer-prices-rose.html
Treasuries held losses from
yesterday before a government report that economists said will
show the cost of living in the U.S. climbed in January for a
seventh month.  Treasury yields are poised to rise, said John Brynjolfsson,
chief investment officer at Armored Wolf LLC hedge fund. Labor
Department figures will show consumer prices advanced 0.3
percent in January, after December’s 0.4 percent gain, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The government is scheduled to sell $9 billion of 30-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities today.  “Inflation is going to come,” said Colin Embree,
Singapore-based head of fixed-income trading and sales at Bank
of Nova Scotia, a unit of  Canada ’s third-largest lender. “I see
a continuation of the backup in rates.” Embree said he is
considering placing bets that will benefit if rates increase.  Ten-year notes yielded 3.62 percent as of 12:29 p.m. in
Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent note
maturing in February 2021 traded at 100 2/32. The rate increased
two basis points yesterday, and it has risen from 2010’s low of
2.33 percent set Oct. 8.  Rising Trend  “You don’t want to bet on interest rates falling from
here,” Brynjolfsson said yesterday in an interview with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart” program. “They could fall for a week or a month, but
the long-term trend for  interest rates  is on the way up,” said
Brynjolfsson, who is based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California .  Brynjolfsson spent 19 years at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund and is
based in  Newport Beach , California.  Today’s consumer-price report will also show costs
excluding food and energy increased 0.9 percent in January from
a year earlier, according to the Bloomberg surveys, less than
half the five-year average of 2 percent.  Treasuries fell yesterday as minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s January meeting showed policy makers regarded the U.S.
recovery as being on a “firmer footing.” They raised
projections for economic growth this year and made little change
to forecasts after 2011 or for unemployment and inflation.  Growing economies in  Asia  and Latin America are boosting
global demand for oil and other commodities, raising costs for
U.S. factories. Unemployment at 9 percent means companies have
little room to pass these expenses to customers.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.94 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to 2.27
percentage points from 1.62 percentage points six months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 