-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Rise Before U.S. Jobless Claims, Inflation Reports

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T12:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/treasury-yields-are-near-one-week-low-before-jobless-claims-cpi-reports.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose, pushing
the yield down to within three basis points of the lowest level
in almost two weeks before reports forecast to show inflation
slowed in January and jobless claims rose last week.  Thirty-year bonds advanced as pro-democracy protesters in
Bahrain stepped up demands for the government to resign,
boosting demand for safer assets including bonds. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  will testify to the Senate Budget
Committee today, and the U.S. will sell $9 billion of 30-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.  Inflation in line with expectations “may lend some support
to Treasuries,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “There seems to be a little bit of  risk aversion  at the moment, so that may give the Treasury
sector some support.”  Ten-year note yields fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.60 percent at 7:01 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent security maturing in February 2021 rose 6/32, or $1.88
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32.  The yields on 10-year notes fell to 3.57 percent yesterday,
the lowest level since Feb. 4. Thirty-year bond yields decreased
two basis points to 4.66 percent.  The dissent in  Bahrain  follows the toppling of autocratic
rulers by popular movements in Egypt and  Tunisia  and marks the
spread of unrest into the  Persian Gulf , where most of the Middle
East’s oil is produced. Oil traded near the highest in more than
two years in London as an expansion of protests renewed concern
shipments will be disrupted.  Stress Tests  Treasuries also rose as two people with knowledge of the
situation said the  Federal Reserve  has ordered the 19 largest
U.S. banks to test their capital levels against a scenario of
renewed recession with unemployment rising above 11 percent,.  The banks have stress-tested the performance of their
loans, securities, earnings and capital against at least three
possible economic outcomes as part of a broader capital-planning
exercise. The banks, including some seeking to increase
dividends cut during the financial crisis, submitted their plans
last month. The Fed will finish a review in March.  Policy makers took a more optimistic view of the economy
last month while maintaining dissatisfaction with job growth,
minutes of their Jan. 25-26 policy meeting released yesterday
showed. The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a
band of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and has pledged to
keep it low for an “extended period.”  Outlook for Yields  “We believe that unemployment and problems in the labor
market will last for a while and could hinder the Fed raising
rates,” said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “There’s some
potential for slower-than-expected economic developments and
also for decreasing Treasury yields in the month ahead.”  First-time claims for U.S. jobless benefits rose last week
from the lowest since July 2008, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 47 economists before the
Labor Department’s report today.  Consumer prices increased 0.3 percent in January after
rising 0.4 percent in the previous month, according to another
survey before a separate report from the Labor Department. So-
called core prices, which exclude food and fuel, were probably
0.1 percent higher, the same as in December.  “I would not be surprised if Treasury market bulls come
back and try to push yields further down today,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “The CPI figures are poised to rise, even
in the core rates, by only a small amount.”  Fed Debt Buying  The  Fed  will buy as much as $8 billion of notes today as
part of its plan to pump $600 billion into the economy by June
30. The central bank plans to purchase Treasuries due from May
2018 to February 2021, according to the  New York  Fed’s website.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.94 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  “You don’t want to bet on interest rates falling from
here,” John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored
Wolf LLC in  Aliso Viejo ,  California , said yesterday in an
interview with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” program. “They could fall for a
week or a month, but the long-term trend for interest rates is
on the way up.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 1.2 percent loss in
2011, while inflation-linked bonds have decreased 1.6 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  