-- 
Treasuries Gain Amid Mideast Tension, Rise in U.S. Initial Jobless Claims

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-17T22:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/treasuries-rise-after-u-s-initial-jobless-claims-indicate-slower-recovery.html
Treasuries gained amid tension in
the Mideast after initial claims for unemployment insurance
increased in the latest week in a sign that improvement in the
U.S. labor market will take time.  Ten-year note yields fell to the lowest in almost two weeks
after reports that  Iran  is sending two warships through the  Suez
Canal . Treasuries gained even after a government report showed
consumer prices rose more than forecast last month. The  Federal
Reserve  purchased $7.2 billion in notes maturing from May 2018
to August 2020 as part of its plan to pump $600 billion into the
economy.  “The uncertainty and geopolitical risks are supportive of
Treasuries,” said Sergey Bondarchuk, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas, one of 20 primary dealers
that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “People just don’t want to
be short the market.” A short is a bet that prices will fall.  Ten-year note yields fell five basis points to 3.57 percent
at 5:02 p.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor Market data, the
lowest level since Feb. 4. The 3.625 percent security due in
February 2021 rose 12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to
100 13/32. Thirty-year bond yields decreased two basis points to
4.66 percent.  Treasury Sales  The U.S. sold $9 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, at a yield of 2.19 percent, compared with
1.768 percent in the last sale of the maturity in August. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of bonds offered, was 2.54, compared with 2.78
at the last sale.  Treasury announced it will sell $35 billion in two-year
notes, $35 billion in five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-
year securities, on three consecutive days beginning Feb. 22.
The auction sizes have remained unchanged since October.  Treasuries advanced earlier as pro-democracy protesters in  Bahrain  stepped up demands for the government to resign,
boosting demand for safer assets.  Iran is arranging with Egyptian officials to have two of
its warships use the Suez Canal, Iranian state-run Press TV
said.  Ahmed El Manakhly, the Suez Canal Authority’s head of
traffic, in a later interview with Bloomberg News, said no
Iranian warships have been licensed to pass through the canal.  Nervous Trade  “We’re trading on the back of nervousness with regards to
the situation in the Middle East,” said Dan Mulholland, a
Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of 20
primary dealers that trades with the Fed. “There could be some
instability in that region going into the weekend.”  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 25,000 to
410,000 in the week ended Feb. 12, exceeding the 400,000 median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed today. The total number of people
receiving  unemployment insurance  was little changed, while those
collecting extended payments decreased.  “Claims have been volatile and it’s tough to tell what’s
going on there because it could be weather-related,” said
Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard W. Fisher said central
bankers have done enough to provide liquidity to the U.S.
economy and that he isn’t inclined to back more efforts to
stimulate growth. The regional bank president, who votes on
monetary policy, said this week that he’ll be “ahead of the
curve” among officials on the  Federal Open Market Committee  in
pushing for tighter policy as needed.  Retail Prices  The  consumer price index  increased 0.4 percent for a second
month, exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed today in  Washington . The so-called core rate, which
excludes volatile food and fuel costs, rose 0.2 percent, the
biggest gain since October 2009.  The difference between the yields on 30-year Treasury bonds
and 30-year TIPS reached 2.512 percentage points, after touching
the least since 2.436 percentage points on Nov. 30. It was 1.839
percentage points in August.  The increase in break-evens from the low in August
corresponded with the rally in the market. As the markets sold
off, break-evens have narrowed, said  Richard Bryant , senior vice
president in fixed-income at MF Global Inc. in New York, a
broker of exchange-traded futures.  Yield Differences  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
inflation-indexed debt was 2.28 percentage points, after
touching the narrowest since Jan. 28 when it was at 2.22
percentage points. It hit a 15-month low of 1.47 percentage
points in August.  “By nearly any historical standard, inflation remains
quite low,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital
markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a note to clients. “But the evidence is
mounting that the staggering amount of monetary stimulus being
pumped into the  U.S. economy  is beginning to take hold.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 1.2 percent loss in
2011, matching inflation-linked Treasuries decreased of 1.2
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  