-- 
Reed Elsevier Says 2010 Profit Little Changed as Markets Gradually Recover

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-02-17T09:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/reed-elsevier-profit-little-changed-as-markets-recover-update1-.html
  Reed Elsevier Plc , the owner of the
LexisNexis database, expects its margins to gradually improve in
2011 as many of its markets have started to recover.  The London-based company reported 2010 adjusted net income
of 983 million pounds ($1.6 billion) earlier today, from 982
million pounds a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
had predicted 980 million pounds. Revenue was little changed at
6.06 billion from 6.07 billion pounds in 2009.  Reed Elsevier said increased investment on product
development and sales and marketing was countered by greater
efficiencies. Chief Executive Officer Erik Engstrom said he
expects a gradual recovery and continued improvement in
performance this year, adding that the company is targeting some
small acquisitions and aims to get out of less profitable
businesses.  “We have no plans at this point to sell any material part
of our business,” the CEO said on a conference call today.  Reed
Elsevier  last year sold off chunks of its trade magazine unit,
Reed Business Information, including all U.S. publishing
operations except Variety magazine.  “Reed Business Information has been the most active and
will continue to be the most active” for restructuring,
Engstrom said. The unit exited “clusters’” of titles in
markets including  Asia , the U.K. and the Netherlands, he said.  No Variety Sale  The company has no plans to sell Hollywood industry journal
Variety, Engstrom said.  The shares declined 2.3 percent to 561 pence as of 8:51
a.m. in London, where the company is based. Reed now has a
market value of 6.8 billion pounds.  Reed in November forecast a narrower profit margin for 2010
because of “a weak revenue environment and increased investment
in legal markets.”  LexisNexis, which accounts for 38 percent of the company’s
adjusted operating profit, posted revenue growth of 1 percent
for 2010 as legal markets stabilized. Reed Exhibitions, the
largest events organizer in the world, saw sales rise 9 percent
with the addition of new shows.  Revenue at Reed Business Information, which makes up 6
percent of the company’s adjusted operating profit, dropped 20
percent as the cost base was restructured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 