-- 
Revel Raises $1.15 Billion to Finish Stalled Casino

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-02-17T22:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/revel-raises-1-15-billion-to-finish-stalled-casino-update1-.html
Revel Entertainment Group LLC, the
developer of a half-built casino resort in Atlantic City,  New
Jersey , said it raised $1.15 billion to restart construction
that stalled when owner  Morgan Stanley  halted funding.  The beachfront resort, budgeted at about $2.4 billion, is
expected to open in mid-2012, the company said today in a
statement. The project is located at the northern end of the
Atlantic City boardwalk.  Planned as the city’s biggest casino resort, the wave-
shaped Revel still needed more than $1 billion when the
financial crisis hit. Morgan Stanley, which owned 95 percent,
contributed the land and funded construction, walked away in
April after writing off most of its $1.2 billion investment.  “Re-starting the project immediately puts 2,100
construction craftsmen and craftswomen back to work and will
result in full-time employment for approximately 5,500 people,”
Kevin DeSanctis, chairman and chief executive officer of Revel
Entertainment, said in the statement.  Rothschild acted as the company’s sole financial adviser in
connection with the transaction, according to the statement.  Revel’s $850 million  term loan  due January 2017 rose when
it first began trading this week. In negotiations this month,
the company increased the size of its first-lien loan by $150
million to $850 million and canceled plans for a second-lien
portion, according to people familiar with the negotiations.  Revel reduced the interest rate by 0.5 percentage point to
7.5 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, plus a 1.5 percent floor, Bloomberg reported earlier.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. arranged the loan.  Declining Revenue  Atlantic City gambling revenue tumbled almost 36 percent to
$3.6 billion in 2010, from a peak of $5.2 billion in 2006 --
before Pennsylvania and Yonkers,  New York , allowed  slot
machines . Competition has intensified with new casinos in
Delaware,  Maryland  and West Virginia. Six of Atlantic City’s
casinos went through bankruptcy or restructured debt during the
financial crisis, and development had stalled.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  is overhauling state
oversight, creating a tourism district around the casinos and
encouraging convention growth to help halt the marketwide
decline, which is hurting tax revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  