-- 
RHI Reorganization Plan Approval Delayed Until March

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-02-17T21:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/rhi-reorganization-plan-approval-delayed-until-march-update1-.html
  RHI Entertainment Inc ., the bankrupt
developer of movies made for television, received court
permission to delay approval of its reorganization plan while
negotiations continue with its principal lender.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein said today in court
in  Manhattan  that he will hold a hearing to confirm the
company’s plan on March 29. Bernstein also approved three
settlement agreements between RHI and lenders that provided
financing for films.  “These are enormously complex settlement agreements
involving numerous parties,” Bernstein said. “They will
substantially reduce the debtor’s liabilities.”  RHI, based in  New York , filed for Chapter 11 creditor
protection in December saying that a weak economy made it
“unable to license new movies and mini-series at prices that
would cover the production and debt costs.” RHI filed a
prepackaged reorganization plan negotiated with creditors before
it sought Chapter 11 protection.  JPMorgan Chase & Co . is RHI’s
principal secured lender.  The issue that delayed confirmation was the secured
lender’s requirement that RHI not exceed a cap on claims, set at
$2.9 million, D.J. Baker, a lawyer for RHI, told the judge.  “They are still in the process of reviewing the claims,”
Baker said. “We believe we will be significantly under that,
and all unsecured claims will be paid in full.”  New Loan  The reorganization plan would give the holders of about
$515 million in first-lien debt a new $300 million  term loan  and
99 percent of the company’s new stock. Holders of about $75
million of second-lien debt would receive 1 percent of the new
stock and warrants representing as much as 15 percent of the
shares.  The three settlement agreements approved today will give
the companies that financed certain films, including U.S. Bank
NA, ownership and future revenue from them.  In exchange, the lenders will forgive more than $60 million
they are owed, Baker said. RHI will retain the right to
distribute the films to television networks such as  Walt Disney
Co .’s ABC. The films include “Black Swarm,” “Dragonsteel”
and “Rise of the Gargoyles.”  One objection remains to the plan, from the U.S. Trustee
appointed by the  Justice Department  to oversee Chapter 11 cases.
The trustee said the plan improperly releases certain parties
from any claims that might arise against them.  “We hope to resolve that,” Baker told the judge.  RHI Shares  RHI won approval in January of a $15 million revolving
credit facility provided by New York-based JPMorgan to finance
operations while reorganizing.  The hearings to approve the reorganization plan and the
disclosure statement, which outlines the plan, will be held at
the same time because the restructuring was negotiated before
the Chapter 11 filing and creditors voted in favor of it.  RHI doubled, rising 1.5 cents to 3 cents at 3:45 p.m. New
York time in over-the-counter trading. The shares had fallen 28
percent this year before today.  The case is In re RHI Entertainment Inc., 10-16536,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  