-- 
Rosneft Proven Oil Reserves Fell on Tax, Transit Costs, Output

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T14:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/rosneft-proven-oil-reserves-fell-1-3-in-2010-to-sec-standards.html
OAO Rosneft said proven oil reserves
fell 1.3 percent after  Russia ’s largest crude producer increased
output, and taxes and transit costs lowered the volume of
reserves considered proven or commercially viable.  Proven oil reserves fell to 13.75 billion barrels,
according to a DeGolyer & MacNaughton audit to U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission standards, Rosneft said in an e-mailed
statement today. That compares to 13.93 billion barrels for 2009
to the same standards, according to the company  website .  The decline came about because Rosneft increased output
last year, a spokesman, who declined to be identified, citing
company policy, said by telephone from Moscow. A higher mineral
extraction tax in 2012 and 2013 and rising transit costs last
year also lowered the commercially oriented reserves, Rosneft
said.  Oil production rose 6.4 percent to 2.32 million barrels a
day last year, according to a Rosneft  presentation . The company
plans lower production growth this year, of around 1 percent.  Cumulative production from Rosneft’s Vankor deposit will
probably reach 25 million metric tons in August, triggering the
end of an exemption from Russia’s mineral extraction tax.
Separately export duties on output from the deposit, Russia’s
largest new oil development, may only last until the end of
April.  Rosneft reported 18.11 billion barrels of oil reserves to
Petroleum Resources Management System standards in the filing.
That compares with 18.06 billion barrels to the same standards a
year earlier.  SEC standards apply stricter commercial criteria to qualify
reserves as proven than more geologically oriented Petroleum
Resources standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Henry at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net  