-- 
Rousseff Wins First Battle in Congress on Brazil Wage Used to Set Pensions

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-02-17T20:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/rousseff-wins-first-battle-in-congress-on-brazil-wage-used-to-set-pensions.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
rallied her coalition in Congress to ignore protests by unions
and approve a minimum wage that won’t undermine her fledgling
government’s plan to cut 50 billion reais ($30.1 billion) from
the budget. Yields on interest-rate futures fell.  The Lower House, in a voice vote last night, set the wage
used to calculate monthly pension payments at 545 reais, a 6.8
percent increase from last year. Later on, in a 361-to-120 vote,
lawmakers rejected what was considered the most risky amendment
for the government: a proposal, pushed by the opposition with
the support of unions, that would raise the wage to 560 reais
and add 4.5 billion reais to the federal budget.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing after
January 2012 fell as traders bet that slower government spending
growth will ease pressure on the central bank to raise borrowing
costs. The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.69 percent at 3
p.m. New York time. The yield fell by as much as 11 basis points
yesterday, as the government held firm on its wage proposal to
show its commitment to cutting the budget.  The legislative victory shows that the government has the
power to implement the spending cuts needed to combat inflation,
said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos.  “Dilma threw the whole weight of the government behind
this,” Perfeito said, speaking by phone from Sao Paulo. “The
chances of a rate cut in 2012 have increased, though it will all
depend on whether the government succeeds in curbing spending.”  Biggest Party  The second-biggest party in the 513-seat chamber and the
government’s main coalition partner, the Brazilian Democratic
Movement Party, or PMDB, voted unanimously for Rousseff’s
austerity plan during yesterday’s session, while two members of
her Workers’ Party dissented. The bill now goes to the Senate.  Rousseff, who took office Jan. 1, set a goal last week to
cut spending by 50 billion reais in a bid to help the central
bank contain inflation running at the fastest pace in 26 months.
The government has yet to detail where the cuts will take place,
though it has vowed to eliminate waste at all ministries and
freeze hiring.  Underpinning the austerity drive is a minimum wage of 545
reais, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Feb. 15. Every one-
real increase in the wage boosts annual spending by 300 million
reais because more than two-thirds of pension and safety-net
payments such as  unemployment insurance  are indexed to it,
according to government figures.  Opposition Plan  The opposition had teamed up with unions and dissident
members of Rousseff’s coalition, including Labor Minister Carlos Lupi’s Democratic Labor Party, to push for a bigger increase.  Lawmakers also approved a government proposal to adjust the
wage using a formula agreed to by unions and Rousseff’s
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , in 2006. Under the deal,
which will last through 2015, the sum of inflation, as measured
by the previous year’s INPC price index, plus the gross domestic
product growth rate two years prior will be used to annually
adjust salaries.  The difference in yields between shorter-term and longer-
term rate futures contracts is shrinking as investors from
outside Brazil are betting the government won’t have to keep
interest rates as high for as long, said Mariano Cirello, who
manages 5 billion reais in Brazilian assets as chief investment
officer at Mapfre Investimentos in  Sao Paulo .  Policy makers last month raised the benchmark interest rate
for the first time since July to 11.25 percent in a bid to cool
annual inflation that in January reached 5.99 percent, near the
upper end of the bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent. The bank will boost the overnight rate by at least an
additional 50 basis points at its March meeting, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate-futures show.  Lower Rates  Mantega said the government’s plans to reduce spending will
allow policy makers over time to lower the highest real interest
rates in the Group of 20 nations.  Federal government outlays accelerated in 2009 to help  Brazil  recover from the global financial crisis, and sped up
again in 2010 in the run-up to Rousseff’s election. Expenditures
in 2010 jumped 22.4 percent to 700 billion reais after rising
14.9 percent in 2009, Treasury figures show.    Budget Surplus   The country’s budget surplus before interest payments, the
so-called primary surplus, reached 2.8 percent of GDP last year,
falling short of the government’s 3.1 percent target. Mantega
vowed to meet this year’s target of 3 percent after the  International Monetary Fund , in a report, warned Brazil would
miss it by a “wide margin.”  Latin America’s biggest economy grew 7.3 percent last year
and will expand 4.5 percent this year, the central bank
estimates.  Brazil’s real rose 0.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to
1.6610, from 1.6692 yesterday. Twenty-three of 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg gained against the
greenback.  The central bank said it bought dollars in the  spot market 
today at 1.6625 reais each. Policy makers regularly buy the U.S.
currency in an effort to curb the appreciation of the real,
which has gained 39 percent since the end of 2008, the most
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg during
that period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 Csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  