-- 
Rubicon Leaps 20% After Guidance Exceeds Expectations

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-18T21:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/rubicon-leaps-20-after-first-quarter-guidance-exceeds-expectations.html
(Corrects analysts’ earnings estimate in third paragraph
in story published Feb. 17.)    Rubicon Technology Inc . climbed the
most in almost 18 months after the U.S. maker of sapphire ingots
and wafers issued first-quarter guidance that exceeded analysts’
expectations.  Rubicon rose $2.68, or 13 percent, to $23.79 a share in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading today. Earlier the shares increased
20 percent to $25.24, the biggest intra-day percentage gain
since Aug. 21, 2009.  The Bensenville, Illinois-based company said first-quarter
earnings would range from 62 cents to 65 cents a share,
according to a statement released after the close of regular
trading yesterday. Analysts were expecting earnings of 52 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue this quarter
will be $34 million to $36 million, the company forecast.  The guidance is “well above consensus” Avinash Kant, an
analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co. said in a research note today.
Kant reiterated the “buy” recommendation he has had on Rubicon
since May 7, citing an anticipated 25 percent growth rate for
sapphire demand.  EVA Dimensions LLC today raised its recommendation on
Rubicon to “hold” from “sell.” Three other analysts tracked
by Bloomberg increased their 12-month target price for the
company.  Larger Wafers  Rubicon’s products are widely used in light-emitting
diodes. Strong demand in the fourth quarter for the energy-
efficient lights and the sapphire products that are used to make
them, drove up the average price for its wafers 30 percent over
the prior quarter, the company’s chief executive officer Raja Parvez said in a conference call.  He said that LED makers are moving to larger-diameter
wafers, from the 2-inch and 4-inch wafers that are commonly used
now.  Sales of 6-inch wafers were $8.1 million, up 70 percent
from the prior quarter, and may generate the majority of the
company’s revenue by the end of this year, Parvez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  