-- 
Russian Retail Sales Growth Slows, Unemployment Rises

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-02-17T15:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/russian-retail-sales-growth-slows-as-consumer-demand-weakens.html
Russian retail sales grew in January
at the slowest rate in a year, missing economist estimates, as
faster inflation and an increase in unemployment damped demand.  Sales added an annual 0.5 percent last month, growing at
the slowest pace since January 2010, after a 3.4 rise in
December, the  Federal Statistics Service  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median forecast of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an annual gain of 2.8 percent. The January
jobless rate jumped to 7.6 percent, the highest since April
2010, from 7.2 percent in November.  Central bank policy makers “will need to do something to
prevent inflation from accelerating and further eroding the
purchasing power of consumers,” said Aurelija Augulyte, an
emerging-market economist at Nordea Bank AB. “They need to at
least signal that they are worried about inflation.”  Signs that consumers are beginning to feel the pinch from
inflation may add to the case for higher borrowing costs as the
Bank Rossii weighs price pressures against the strength of the
economic recovery. The bank surprised 12 of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg survey by keeping the deposit rate unchanged in
January.  The central bank on Jan. 31 kept all  interest rates  on
hold, including the key refinancing rate at a record-low 7.75
percent opting to raise  reserve requirements  for banks to
contain inflation. The IMF Russia’s inflation in January
accelerated at the fastest pace in 15 months as a surge in food
prices and a seasonal increase in utility rates fueled price
growth.  Real average wages increased an annual 0.6 percent last
month, while real disposable incomes shrank 5.5 percent for the
first decrease since August 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 