-- 
Saudi Arabia Risks Shiite Unrest in Wake of Bahrain Turmoil

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-02-20T10:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/saudi-arabia-risks-contagion-from-shiite-protests-roiling-neighbor-bahrain.html
Violent protests in  Bahrain  provoked
by discontent among majority Shiite Muslims risk spilling over
to their co-religionists in neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s biggest oil exporter, analysts said.  Bahrain, a close Saudi ally ruled by the Sunni Muslim Al
Khalifa family, has been rocked by unrest since Feb. 14 that has
led to calls for the government’s dismissal and the creation of
a constitutional monarchy after at least five people were killed
as security forces opened fire on demonstrators.  Saudi Arabia has a Shiite minority concentrated in its
eastern oil-producing hub that also complains of discrimination.
Any spread of unrest into the country, which holds one-fifth of
the world’s oil, risks pushing crude prices above the 2 1/2-year
high reached this past week. Authorities arrested 38 people
after clashes involving Shiite pilgrims in the holy city of
Medina two months ago.  A member of the Saudi royal family, Prince Talal Bin Abdul
Aziz, warned in an interview with BBC Arabic TV that unless  King Abdullah  introduces more political participation and human
rights,  Saudi Arabia  may also see protests.  “Unless problems facing Saudi Arabia are solved, what
happened and is still happening in some Arab countries,
including Bahrain, could spread to Saudi Arabia, even worse,”
Prince Talal told the London-based TV broadcaster in an
interview aired late Feb. 17.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Saudi Arabia surged on Feb. 18 on
concern political unrest in Bahrain will spread to the kingdom.  Swaps on Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of confidence in
the country although it has no debt, jumped 10.5 basis points to
137, the highest since July 2009, according to CMA. Contracts on
Bahrain rose for a fifth day, climbing 18 basis points to 302,
the highest in 17 months.  Saudi Arabian shares yesterday retreated for a fifth day.
The benchmark  stock index , the Tadawul All Share Index, rose
0.30 percent at 11:10 a.m. today.  “There is tension right now and now you have the added
situation in Bahrain that may ignite the spark,” said Christoph
Wilcke, an expert on the country at New York-based Human Rights
Watch, by phone from Munich. “This anger has the potential to
spill over.”  Bahraini authorities backed down from a standoff with
protesters yesterday in a bid to ease tensions, pulling tanks
and armored personnel carriers from a central square. Crown
Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, speaking on Bahrain TV, said
the country is entering a phase “in which we will discuss all
our issues sincerely and honestly.”  16 Miles Away  Unrest in Bahrain, which is linked to Saudi Arabia by a 26-
kilometer (16-mile) causeway and whose capital, Manama, is only
a four-hour-drive from its Saudi counterpart,  Riyadh , has in the
past spread across the border. In 1995, the Saudi government
arrested a large number of Shiites in its Eastern Province on
suspicion of involvement in protests taking place in Bahrain,
according to Human Rights Watch.  Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal and
counterparts from other members of the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council pledged to Bahrain they will stand “united
in the face of challenges” and wished it “continued progress,
security and stability” at an emergency meeting on Feb. 17 in
Manama, the official Saudi Press Agency said.  ‘Second-Class Citizens’  “The events in Bahrain are being followed very closely by
both the government and the citizens of Saudi Arabia,” Ibrahim
AlMugaiteeb, president of the Human Rights First Society, in the
Saudi city of al-Khobar, said by e-mail. “The Saudi government
has to treat the Shiites the same way Sunnis are treated in the
kingdom if they want long-term stability.”  Tawfiq AlSaif, a prominent Shiite activist from the eastern
region of Qatif, called last year for the government to appoint
Shiites as ministers and ambassadors as a first step toward
ending their treatment as “second-class citizens.”  Saudi Arabia’s royal family maintains a strict version of
Sunni Islam. It prohibits the public observance of other
religions and limits the practice of other branches of Islam.  It has a Shiite minority estimated at between 10 percent
and 15 percent of the population, according to  Human Rights
Watch . Most live in the Eastern Province, where state-owned
Saudi oil company  Saudi Aramco  is based, and in which they
constitute 75 percent of the population.  ‘Significant Discrimination’  The U.S. State Department noted in a human rights  report on
Saudi Arabia  published in 2009 that Shiites in the kingdom face
“significant political, economic, legal, social and religious
discrimination condoned by the government.”  The latest religious violence broke out in Medina on Dec.
16 during the Shiite festival of Ashura, injuring several
people. In February 2009, clashes between Shiite pilgrims and
religious police led to the arrest of some of the pilgrims and
sparked disturbances in towns in the east of the country.  In addition to religious restrictions that forbid them from
building mosques and discourage prayer meetings, Shiites are
taught only about Sunni Islam at schools, are often disqualified
as witnesses in court, can’t serve as judges in ordinary courts
and are excluded from high-ranking government or security posts,
according to  Human Rights Watch .  While Saudi King Abdullah has taken some steps by promoting
dialogue between the different strands of Islam, he hasn’t taken
any concrete action to combat discrimination and harassment of
the Shiites, said Wilcke. Now that the 86-year-old monarch is
out of the country, recuperating after medical treatment in the
U.S., Interior Minister Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz, who is
effectively in charge in his absence, could take a harder line,
he said.  Iranian Influence  There are concerns that Shiite-led  Iran , Saudi Arabia’s
main regional rival, is backing the protests in Bahrain,
Sratfor, an Austin, Texas-based intelligence-consulting group,
said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 17.  Iran has increased its regional influence since a Shiite-
led government took power by winning elections in  Iraq  after the
U.S.-led overthrow of  Saddam Hussein . Kuwait, which has a 30
percent Shiite minority, last year broke up what it said was an
Iranian spy cell, prompting Saudi authorities to call for U.S.
allies in the  Persian Gulf  to step up security cooperation.  Saudi religious leaders have in the past accused Iran of
encouraging violence by Shiite minority groups in the region. In
November 2009, Saudi Arabia’s grand mufti, Sheikh Abdul Aziz al-
Sheikh, said the Iranians were “cooperating in sin and
aggression” by backing Shiite insurgents in  Yemen  in a conflict
that drew in the Saudi army.  U.S. Diplomats  Still, U.S. diplomats in Bahrain, cited in a 2008 cable
released by WikiLeaks, said they had found “no convincing
evidence of Iranian weapons or government money here since at
least the mid-1990s.” They were responding to charges by
Bahraini authorities that local Shiite opposition groups were
supported by Iran.  Saudi Arabia has condemned popular uprisings against Middle
Eastern rulers this year, and backed Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  until he was overthrown by protest movements last week.
Iran welcomed Mubarak’s fall and also that of  Tunisia ’s Zine el
Abidine Ben Ali, whose Jan. 14 flight from the country after a
month of demonstrations ignited the unrest in the region.  The potential for protests in Bahrain to oust the kingdom’s
Sunni rulers is a major strategic threat to Saudi Arabia, said
Ayham Kamel, an analyst at the  Eurasia Group  in  Washington ,
which monitors political risk.  “Inspired by their counterparts in Bahrain, Shias will
seek greater social, economic, and religious equality,” he
said. “Regionally, Saudi Arabia’s stability is at risk if the
Shia opposition succeeds in toppling the Al Khalifa regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 