-- 
LSE’s TMX Bid Has Lower Odds of Success Than NYSE Deal

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S h i n   P e i
-- 
2011-02-17T21:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/lse-s-canada-bid-gets-lower-odds-for-success-than-nyse-deal-trading-shows.html
The  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc ’s bid for  TMX Group Inc . is more likely to fail than  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s takeover of the New York Stock Exchange,
bets from equity traders show.  Shares of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner are trading
about 8 percent below the C$43.91 a share offer from the LSE,
while the owner of the New York bourse’s shares are in line with
the bid by  Europe ’s biggest exchange.  Investors are questioning the C$3.2 billion ($3.25 billion)
takeover of TMX Group less than four months after the Canadian
government rejected  BHP Billiton Ltd .’s hostile bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. Comments by Ontario politicians have
also raised doubts about the proposed transaction.  “I think the chances of succeeding are a little bit better
than 50-50,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of
Caldwell Securities Ltd., which oversees about C$1 billion
including TMX and LSE shares. “It’s not about the business
case, it’s about politics.”  Shareholders of TMX Group and  NYSE Euronext  were offered
premiums of more than 8 percent in the takeovers announced this
month. Since Deutsche Boerse announced a $9.53 billion all-stock
purchase of NYSE on Feb. 15, the premium has disappeared. By
contrast, the premium on the LSE bid was at 8.5 percent as of 4
p.m. New York time. TMX shares fell 12 cents to C$40.48 at the
close of trading in Toronto.  The share-price gap suggests traders are betting the
Canadian transaction is less likely to close. LSE’s TMX purchase
has the 13th highest gap among 133 pending takeovers with North
American companies as targets, according to Bloomberg data. The  Deutsche Boerse  deal ranked 105th.  All-Stock Purchase  LSE agreed Feb. 9 to buy TMX in an all-stock deal to expand
into new businesses as competition from trading platforms and
mergers among rivals increase. TMX investors will get 2.9963 LSE
shares for each share they own. LSE shareholders will own 55
percent of the combined company, while TMX investors will own
the rest. LSE closed at 920.5 pence today on the London Stock
Exchange.  The transaction requires approvals from Canada’s federal
government and provincial securities regulators in Ontario,  Quebec , British Columbia,  Alberta  and Manitoba, as well as the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and two-thirds of TMX
shareholders.  ‘Political Question’  Scotia Capital analyst Phil Hardie pegged the odds of
regulatory approval on the TMX deal at 50/50 due to “increased
negative rhetoric” from Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan,
who called TMX Group a “strategic asset,” and heightened
uncertainty related to public hearings planned in Ontario and
Quebec.  Scotia Capital cut TMX’s one-year target price to C$45 a
share because of the lower probability of regulatory approval,
Hardie said in the Feb. 15 note.  “It’s not an easy political question,”  Royal Bank of
Canada  Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon said in a Feb. 11
interview. “It’s very important for those who have to consider
those issues to really understand the facts as opposed to the
rhetoric.”  Ontario politicians need to ensure they understand the
longer-term value of the deal to Toronto versus the longer-term
implications of not doing a transaction, said Nixon, who
oversees Canada’s biggest bank. Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets
investment-banking unit advised LSE on the transaction.  Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand said his province
will hold public hearings into the transaction, while British
Columbia Finance Minister Colin Hansen, who called the deal a
“big opportunity” for Canada, said he has no such plans.  Clement Review  Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said Feb. 14 he
will review the TMX deal under the Investment  Canada  Act to
determine if the transaction is beneficial to the country’s
economy.  “Ontario could be problematic, but I think it could be a
challenge at the fed level as well, just in national
interests,” Caldwell said in a Feb. 15 interview. “It might
turn into a cause célèbre that the politicians really want.”  London Stock Exchange’s bid comes after Clement rejected
BHP’s hostile takeover of Potash Corp. Until the Potash bid,
Canada had accepted all but one takeover reviewed by the
government over the past 25 years.  TMX’s eroding market share in equity trading from
alternative marketplaces including the bank-owned Alpha Trading
Systems also underscores the “logic” of the deal, according to
Caldwell. Alpha, which started in November 2008, had about 19
percent of the share of Canada’s stock trading marketplace last
year, compared with about 73 percent by TMX, according to the
 Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada .  “It’s a deal that pretty well has to come because of the
creation of Alpha and the bleed-off of volumes from Alpha and
some of the alternative trading systems,” Caldwell said. “I
don’t think they have a choice, they have to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Shin Pei in New York at 
 spei@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 