-- 
Senate Deficit ‘Gang’ Tests Clout of Bipartisan Teams

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-18T15:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/senate-deficit-gang-reflects-move-toward-bipartisan-alliances-over-debt.html
(Corrects Conrad’s home state in fifth paragraph in story
that moved Feb. 17.)  It started with a casual chat on the
Senate floor.  Now Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and
Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia are leading a
bipartisan group trying to forge an agreement on tackling the
country’s debt, which is approaching $14.3 trillion.  Warner, who co-founded a company that became Nextel Corp.,
now  Sprint Nextel Corp ., and Chambliss, who as a member of the
 Armed Services Committee  has promoted defense spending, are
among a handful of senators working to turn the recommendations
of President Barack Obama’s deficit commission into a
legislative package of tax reforms and spending cuts.  Among the approaches the group is discussing, according to
an account in the Wall Street Journal confirmed today by an aide
familiar with the talks, is a trigger mechanism whereby tax
increases and spending cuts would automatically kick in if
Congress didn’t cut federal expenditures or take other steps to
rein in the deficit.  Senator Kent Conrad of  North Dakota , the Budget Committee
chairman and a member of the negotiating group, said they’re
taking “a double-track approach” though he declined to give
details on the discussions.  “The first effort is to put together a comprehensive plan
that really does bring down the deficit and the debt down, but
we’re also considering a fail-safe mechanism to encourage
Congress to make specific decisions,” said Conrad, a Democrat.  ‘Getting Close’  It’s unclear whether the idea would gain traction or have
enough support to make it into legislative form.  “I think we’re getting close,” Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat and a member of the
negotiating group, said yesterday. He said the group would like
to find “agreement in a matter of weeks.”  The new makeup of  Capitol Hill  -- with Republicans ruling
the House and Democratic Senate control reduced in November’s
election to 53-47 -- gives these and other bipartisan efforts
the chance to shape much of what happens in Congress over the
next two years and help determine how productive Obama can be in
the second half of his term.  “Centrists of both parties are forming little groups to
try and tackle big issues,” said Jim Kessler, a former Senate
Democratic aide who co-founded  Third Way, a Washington-based
think tank . “Nothing can get to the president’s desk without a
substantial amount of Republican support, so virtually all
legislation is going to involve negotiation and compromise.
These small groups can take the lead.”  Small Talk  It was small talk between Chambliss and Warner last year on
the Senate floor that turned serious and led the two to team up
to focus on the deficit and debt, Chambliss said.  The pair has joined with the senators who sat on Obama’s
deficit panel -- Durbin and Conrad, as well as Republicans  Tom Coburn  on  Oklahoma  and Mike Crapo of  Idaho  -- to craft a
legislative proposal.  Warner, in a Bloomberg Television interview on Jan. 31,
said “We’re going to need folks like Saxby and I who said, ‘You
know, this is the time to check our Democrat and Republican hats
and recognize that we’ve got to get this fixed.’ Everybody’s got
to have some skin in the game.”  While Warner and Chambliss eschew the comparison, their
crew bears similarities to the so-called gang of 14, a group of
seven Republican and seven Democratic senators who teamed in
2005 to avert a partisan showdown over changing the rules for
blocking judicial nominees.  ‘Dr. No’  The deficit-reduction group is politically more diverse,
including Durbin, a proponent of government stimulus to spur the
economy, and Coburn, known to his colleagues as “Dr. No” for
his willingness to block spending bills.  “History tells us with divided government, we can get a
lot of things done,” Chambliss said in an interview. The
government’s fiscal picture “has gotten so serious that
Republicans and Democrats alike, I think, agree that we’ve got
to solve the problem.”  Other areas are ripe for compromise, say senators in both
parties and their aides, including energy and trade policy.  Independent Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of  Connecticut , who
caucuses with Democrats, has teamed with Republican Senator Rob Portman of  Ohio , director of the White House Office of
Management and Budget under former President  George W. Bush , on
legislation to reinstate trade negotiating authority for the
Obama administration. The bill would express Congress’s support
for passing pending trade agreements with  South Korea , Colombia
and Panama.  ‘Reason to Work Together’  “People who haven’t traditionally worked together will
find reason to work together,” said Democratic Sen.  Ben Nelson 
of  Nebraska , a veteran of unofficial bipartisan cliques that in
past years have cut deals on taxes and other matters.  Last month, Nelson proposed doing away with the aisle that
cuts down the center of the Senate chamber, dividing Democrats
from Republicans. His idea, which hasn’t been acted upon, was
aimed at sustaining the cross-party comity that marked Obama’s
State of the Union address, when many Republicans and Democrats
broke with decades of tradition to sit together in the House
chamber.  “I’m hopeful the mood will continue. There’s common ground
to be found,” Nelson said.  Senate Democratic and Republican leaders demonstrated as
much last month when they cut a deal to limit the use of
stalling tactics, known as the filibuster, to block the
chamber’s work.  McConnell, Reid  Republican Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said his party would use the filibuster less often,
while Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he
would be more open to Republican amendments.  “I think we’re going to find in this Congress a lot more
bipartisanship,” Reid said.  The new dynamic could lead to gridlock as much as
cooperation, particularly on the most politically sensitive
issues such as health care. One challenge facing dealmakers is
the reduction of their ranks in the 2010 elections.  The Senate’s roughly 15-member Democratic centrist group
lost two leaders -- Senator Blanche Lincoln of  Arkansas ,
defeated in November, and Senator Evan Bayh of  Indiana , who
retired. That has left Delaware Senator Tom Carper in charge for
now.  Senate Republicans known for reaching across the political
aisle now number only about a half-dozen, including Maine
Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, Massachusetts Senator
Scott Brown and Indiana Senator Richard Lugar. Snowe and Lugar
both face potential primary 2012 challenges from fiscally
conservative Tea Party activists.  In the 435-member House, the ranks of fiscally conservative
Democrats known as “Blue Dogs” now number only about 24 --
about half as many as before last year’s elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  