-- 
Sentance Says Bank of England Can't Afford to Be `Relaxed' on Pound Value

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-02-17T10:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/sentance-says-bank-of-england-can-t-afford-to-be-relaxed-on-pound-value.html
  Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the bank should raise interest rates to boost the
pound and help it to contain inflation pressures.  “One of the benefits which we might see from a policy of
raising interest rates is a modest appreciation of sterling,
which would mitigate the impact of global inflationary pressures
in the short term and help to steer inflation back to target
over the medium term,” Sentance said in a speech in  London 
today. Policy makers can’t be “relaxed” about the level of the
pound, he said.  The central bank said in its Inflation Report yesterday
that consumer-price growth will accelerate to 4.4 percent this
year before easing to its 2 percent target by the middle of
2012. Sentance said the projection is “too optimistic” and
that the pound’s decline since 2007 and inflationary pressures
from global demand mean policy makers must give greater weight
to the  exchange rate  in their decisions.  “We could be relaxed about that risk when global demand
was so weak in late 2008 and 2009,” Sentance said, referring to
the pound’s weakness. “We cannot afford to be so relaxed now,
against the background of strong and sustained global
inflationary pressure -- particularly given the historically
large recent decline in the value of sterling.”  The pound rose against the dollar and was up 0.3 percent at
$1.6143 as of 10:28 a.m. in London. It strengthened 0.2 percent
against the euro, trading at 84.10 pence.  Faster Tightening  Sterling has dropped about 21 percent since 2007 against a
trade-weighted basket of currencies.  Sentance, who has voted to increase the benchmark interest
rate from a record low 0.5 percent every month since June, said
the currency’s value “needs to be one of the key areas of focus
for the Monetary Policy Committee as we seek to steer ourselves
out of the current phase of high inflation.”  He also said that policy “would most likely need to be
tightened faster and by more than the markets currently expect
to bring inflation back to” the bank’s 2 percent target.  Investors have fully priced in a 25 basis-point rate
increase by June and a further increase by October, according
to derivative prices on Bloomberg from Tullett Prebon Plc.  ‘Windbreak’  “The first line of defense for the U.K. against global
inflationary pressures is the value of the pound,” he said. “A
relatively strong or an appreciating currency can provide a
windbreak against an inflationary gale blowing in from the world
economy.”  Former policy maker  Kate Barker  also raised the issue of
the pound as a part of policy decisions in an interview last
week. She said officials may be wary of raising interest rates
if that would undermine the economic recovery. A pound
appreciation would make the bank “uncomfortable” because it
would be “depressing the economy,” she said.  Sentance said the U.K. may be affected by imported
inflation in a similar way as small, open economies such as
Singapore. The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
exchange rate as its main tool to manage inflation, revalued its
currency in April and said in October it would steepen and widen
the trading band while continuing to seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation.” The  Singapore  government raised its 2011
inflation forecast today.  “The persistence of such a large depreciation and the
change in the global climate has significantly shifted the
balance of risks,” Sentance said. “These upward pressures on
global demand and prices are not about to abate quickly and are
one of the key reasons why I would expect U.K. inflation in the
medium-term to be higher than the latest Inflation Report
forecast suggests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  