-- 
Singapore Raises Inflation Forecast on Record Growth

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-17T04:39:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/singapore-raises-2011-inflation-forecast-to-3-4-after-record-expansion.html
  Singapore  raised its inflation and
export forecasts for 2011 after the economy expanded at a record
pace last year, sustaining pressure on the central bank to allow
greater currency appreciation.  Consumer prices may climb as much as 4 percent this year
while exports may rise 10 percent, the trade ministry said
today. The economy expanded a revised 14.5 percent in 2010, with
gross domestic product growing an annualized 3.9 percent in the
three months to Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, it said.  Singapore may tighten monetary policy further even as the
government forecasts growth will slow in 2011 to less than half
of last year’s pace. The island’s currency is the second-best
performer in  Asia  excluding Japan in the past year, gaining
about 10 percent as an economic rebound from the 2009 global
recession boosted wages and spurred tourist arrivals to
unprecedented levels.  “The economy has recovered so strongly and is operating by
almost everyone’s estimates at above potential and warrants a
tightening,” said Yougesh Khatri, a senior economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Singapore. “The higher inflation forecast
supports our view that they will tighten further.”  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses the  exchange rate  as its main tool to manage inflation, revalued the
currency in April 2010 and said in October it would steepen and
widen the currency’s trading band while continuing to seek a
“modest and gradual appreciation.” The stance is next
scheduled for review in April.  Currency Advances  The  Singapore dollar  added 0.1 percent to S$1.2777 versus
its U.S. counterpart at 11:48 a.m. today. The Straits Times
Index of stocks fell 0.2 percent.  Consumer prices may climb 3 percent to 4 percent this year,
up from a previous forecast of 2 percent to 3 percent, the trade
ministry said in a statement today. Price gains may reach 5
percent to 6 percent in the first few months of 2011, it said.  “Thereafter, inflation should moderate, especially in the
second half of the year,” it said. Inflation accelerated to 4.6
percent in December, the fastest pace in two years.  The government kept this year’s economic growth forecast at
4 percent to 6 percent, even as there is “some upside
potential” to the target, the ministry said. The fourth-quarter
growth rate was revised from a Jan. 3 estimate of 6.9 percent.  Cost Pressures  “The key macroeconomic challenge this year will not be
growth but dealing with emerging cost pressures,” Ravi Menon,
permanent secretary at the trade ministry, said at a briefing
today. “At this juncture, we expect these pressures to be
relatively contained although there may be some pockets of
tightness that we should continue to be watchful for.”  Policy makers from  China  to  India  have raised interest
rates to curb inflation in the past year as Asia led the global
recovery. Regional economies may tighten measures to curb
inflation as price pressures have emerged, Singapore’s trade
ministry said. Growth may see a “sharper moderation” if the
steps aren’t “well calibrated,” it said.  There is no need “at this stage” to revise the monetary
policy stance that was set in October, central bank Deputy
Managing Director Ong Chong Tee said. Still, there is “some
risk” to the inflation forecast and policy makers will monitor
price and cost developments “closely,” he said.  Singapore’s “main constraint” is labor and the government
expects “some upward pressures” on wages in 2011, the trade
ministry said. Still, cost pressures won’t be as “acute” as in
2007-08, when annual inflation reached a record 6.6 percent in
2008, the ministry said.  Property Curbs  Policy makers last month introduced more measures to curb
property speculation after private home prices and transactions
reached records. Attempts to rein in prices had started in 2009.  “Given the current situation of strong economic growth,
low  interest rates  and a lot of liquidity in the market, I think
it’s not unnatural to expect property prices will remain
strong,” Mah Bow Tan, the city’s minister for national
development, said Feb. 14. “We will continue to monitor the
property market closely and take further steps if necessary to
promote a stable and sustainable  property market .”  Non-oil shipments may increase between 8 percent and 10
percent in 2011, the government said today, raising it from an
earlier forecast of between 6 percent and 8 percent. Exports
grew 22.8 percent last year.  Resilient Demand  “The steady pace of growth in the advanced economies is
expected to lend support to Singapore’s manufacturing
activities,” the government said. “In Asia, resilient domestic
demand will continue to drive intraregional trade flows and
benefit Singapore’s wholesale trade sector. Strong visitor
arrivals, particularly from the key markets within the region,
will continue to underpin growth in Singapore’s tourism-related
services sectors.”  International visitor arrivals rose 20 percent to 11.6
million in 2010, with tourism spending rising 49 percent to
S$18.8 billion. The record arrivals are benefiting companies
from  Singapore Airlines Ltd . to hotel operator  Shangri-La Asia
Ltd . after the island’s first casinos opened last year as part
of resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and  Las Vegas Sands
Corp .  Arts, entertainment and recreation, including casinos,
accounted for 1.6 percent of GDP, the trade ministry said today.
The sector doubled in size and may post “a very high rate of
increase this year,” the trade ministry’s Menon said.  Risks to the island’s economy include sovereign debt woes
in  Europe  and the prospect of higher interest rates in Asia, the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  