-- 
Singapore’s February Export Growth Slowed as Electronics, Drug Sales Ease

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g
-- 
2011-03-17T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/singapore-s-export-growth-quickens-on-electronics-drugs-demand.html
  Singapore ’s export growth slowed
more than economists expected in February as electronics
shipments fell after the Lunar New Year holidays curbed demand
from China for manufactured parts.  Non-oil domestic exports climbed 7.8 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 20.7 percent gain in January, the
island’s trade promotion agency said in a statement in Singapore
today. The median forecast of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for an increase of 10.5 percent.  Overseas sales are set to ease this year after a global
economic rebound spurred Singapore export growth to the fastest
pace in seven years in 2010. The biggest Japanese earthquake on
record, with its ensuing tsunami and nuclear plant crisis, may
further damp shipments.  “Manufacturing plants in  China , key buyers of Singapore
manufactured components and intermediate products typically
enter a lull period during the festive season,”  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before
the report. There will be “some impact” from the Japan
disaster over the next few months, before exports get a lift
during the reconstruction period, he said.  Non-oil shipments may increase 8 percent to 10 percent in
2011, the government predicts. Exports grew 22.8 percent last
year.  Electronics shipments by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest publicly traded electronics contract
manufacturer, declined 12.8 percent in February from a year
earlier, after gaining 5.8 percent the previous month.  Pharmaceutical Volatility  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, gained 19.7 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
added 1.3 percent after advancing 38.6 percent in January.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil exports rose a seasonally adjusted 2.9
percent last month from January, when they gained a revised 2.1
percent, today’s report showed.  “Though key electronics and pharmaceutical exports appear
to be in a soft patch over the last two months, we reckon that
this will not last for long,” Seah said. “Recovery in the U.S.
is solidifying with increasingly strong consumption data. In
addition, as long as Asia central banks do not overkill in their
monetary tightening, we should see external demand picking up
again towards the second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  