-- 
Slovakia Sells Bonds Cheaper Than Higher-Rated Italy

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-02-17T17:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/slovakia-sells-2016-bonds-today-more-cheaply-than-higher-rated-italy.html
Slovakia’s funding costs fell below
those of higher-rated  Italy  in a debt sale today that was almost
twice oversubscribed, a vote of confidence in the former
communist country’s deficit-reduction plans.  The government raised 1.25 billion euros ($1.7 billion) in
a reopening of its 2016 bond that was priced to yield 80 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate, Ardal, the country’s debt
management agency, said in an e-mailed statement. Italy paid a
spread of 89 basis points in a Feb. 14 offering of November 2015
notes.  “The spread is incredibly narrow,” said  Neil Shearing , a
senior analyst at  Capital Economics  in London. “It shows that
concern over the fiscal situation in the euro zone’s peripheral
countries isn’t spilling over and reflects Slovakia’s strong
fundamental situation and government’s efforts to reduce the  budget deficit  and debt.”  The administration of Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova , in
power since July, wants to squeeze the budget deficit to 4.9
percent of gross domestic product this year from an estimated
7.8 percent in 2010.  Today’s tap of the Slovak bond attracted 1.9 billion euros
in bids, including 1.1 billion euros from foreign investors,
according to the Ardal statement. The country planned to sell 1
billion euros to 1.2 billion euros.  ‘Very Successful’  “For a country the size of Slovakia these are very high
volumes and a very successful sale,” Pavel Mertlik, chief
economist at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, wrote in a report
today. “Despite a general risk aversion, fueled by problems in
some ‘peripheral’ euro-zone states, investors are hungry for
bonds of structurally strong countries in central  Europe .”  Raiffeisen Bank International AG bought bonds offered by
Slovakia today, according to Daniel Novotny-Farkas, a debt
syndication manager at the Vienna-based lender.  Slovak bonds rallied today, pushing the 2026 yield down 8
basis points to 3.616 percent at 5:45 p.m. in the capital
Bratislava, the lowest since Jan. 25. By contrast, the bonds of
Spain, Italy and Portugal fell after Spain sold 3.5 billion
euros of debt, $500 million euros less than the maximum target.  Slovakia, which joined the euro region in 2009, is rated A1
by Moody’s Investors Service, two steps below Italy.  Standard &
Poor’s  ranks both countries at A+.  KBC Groep NV’s CSOB unit,  Erste Group Bank AG ’s Slovenska
Sporitelna and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s VUB are acting as lead
managers of the Slovak bond sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava News at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  