-- 
Kluge Loses Estate to Bank of America in Foreclosure

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-02-18T00:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/socialite-kluge-loses-virginia-mansion-to-bank-of-america-in-foreclosure.html
Socialite and winemaker Patricia Kluge lost her Charlottesville,  Virginia , estate to  Bank of
America Corp . in a foreclosure auction yesterday.  The bank took control with a winning bid of $15.3 million,
said Jonathan Hauser, a lawyer representing the lender. Bank of
America had made three separate loans to Kluge and filed a
foreclosure lawsuit in January seeking at least $23.9 million in
unpaid principal and interest, according to court documents.  Kluge’s Albemarle House estate, a neighbor to  Thomas
Jefferson ’s Monticello, had been listed for sale in December
2009 at a price of $100 million, according to real estate
listings website  Zillow.com . The price had since been reduced
and was last listed at $24 million, according to  Sotheby’s
International Realty .  The property, with eight bedrooms and 13 bathrooms, also
includes a helipad, a home theater and stables, according to the
Sotheby’s listing.  “The bank is now the seller and we expect to now find a
buyer,” Michael Rankin, the Washington-based broker with
Sotheby’s who has been handling the  listing  for Kluge, said in a
telephone interview today.  Other Foreclosures  The Albemarle home is the third piece of Kluge’s property
that has fallen to foreclosure. Farm Credit of the Virginias
took possession of the adjacent 960-acre (388-hectare) Kluge
Estate Winery  Vineyard in December for $19 million, said  Bill
Shmidheiser , a Harrisonburg, Virginia-based attorney with
Lenhart Obenshain who represents Farm Credit.  The bank, which was owed $34 million, is now operating the
winery and plans to sell it at an auction scheduled for April 9,
he said.  “They don’t want to be running a vineyard,” Shmidheiser
said in a telephone interview.    Southern National Bancorp of Virginia Inc ., trying to
recoup an $8.5 million loan on an adjacent 22-lot development
property, conducted a  foreclosure sale  on Jan. 31. It took
possession of the property, called Vineyard Estates, with a $4.9
million bid, said Shmidheiser.  Trump Organization LLC has expressed interest in buying the
house, the vineyard and the development parcels, he said. A
representative for  Donald Trump  has bid at all three auctions,
Shmidheiser said.  Kluge’s ‘Vision’  Trump Organization has retained Kluge’s business adviser,
Les Goldman, to counsel it on the possible purchase of the
properties, which total 1,800 acres, Goldman said.  “Even though they’ve lost these properties they have a
continuing interest in seeing that their vision gets
completed,” Goldman, based in  Washington , said of Kluge and her
husband, William Moses.  The Washington Post  reported  Bank of America’s winning bid
on Albemarle yesterday. The billionaire holds a “right of first
refusal” to buy the property at a later date, according to the
newspaper.  Rhona Graff, a spokeswoman for Trump, said he could not
immediately comment on the group’s interest in the properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  