-- 
Soco’s Congo Oil Search Faces Environmental Concerns

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-17T18:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/soco-oil-search-in-eastern-congo-may-contravene-domestic-environment-laws.html
(Corrects spelling of minister’s name in second paragraph.)    Soco International Plc , a U.K. oil
company, may be forced to delay its search for crude in eastern
 Democratic Republic of Congo  because of disagreements over the
scope of the country’s environmental laws, the government said.  Exploration at Soco’s Block 5 along the border with  Uganda 
may contravene Congolese law because it overlaps with Virunga
National Park, Environment Minister Jose Endundo said in an
interview on Feb. 15 in Kinshasa, the capital. The United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, known
as Unesco, designated Virunga a World Heritage Site in 1979.  “I want to meet with Soco and talk to them,” Endundo
said. “We are open to listening to the different sides and I
also want to stay within the law.”  Soco signed an agreement for the block in 2007 and a
presidential decree authorized the company to begin exploration
in June with Bermuda-based  Dominion Petroleum Ltd . In August,
Unesco asked Congolese President Joseph Kabila to guarantee that
there would be no exploration or exploitation in Virunga because
of its protected status.  The World Heritage designation shouldn’t stop Congo from
exploiting the economic potential of its oil, Oil Minister
Celestin Mbuyu said in an interview on Feb. 14.  “We want to respect our agreements, but we don’t want to
be blocked from knowing what’s under our soil,” he said. “We
might say to the world: ‘We’ll let that stay in the ground, but
we want compensation.’”  Gorillas, Hippos  Virunga covers about 800,000 hectares (1.98 million acres)
and is home to more than 20,000 hippopotamuses and endangered
mountain gorillas. Since the mid-1990s, rebel groups and
refugees have moved into parts of the reserve, clearing forest
and killing wild animals.  Soco’s oil block doesn’t include the gorilla area and
exploration will be confined to locations around Lake Edward,
not the forests situated mostly outside the block, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Roger Cagle said in an e-mail on Feb. 16. Soco
is completing its environmental assessment study and is capable
of exploring for oil with minimal impact on Virunga, he said.  “We will proceed in a manner that’s conducive to the
welfare of the park,” Cagle said. “When we leave it will be
better than when we got there.” The company still wants to
begin exploration in the first quarter of this year, he said.  The Lake Edward area that Soco is interested in is
“sensitive” and Congolese law outlawing exploration in the
park is clear, according to Emmanuel de Merode, director of
Virunga Park.  ‘Change the Law’  “There’s a way around it, which is to change the law,” De
Merode said by phone yesterday.  Congo is recovering from more than 40 years of dictatorship
and war that destroyed its economy and infrastructure. A UN
Development Programme report released in November ranked Congo
as the second-least-developed nation in the world out of 169
countries surveyed. The Soco project may offer employment and
development opportunities for the region if it is allowed to
proceed, Cagle said.  “It is our understanding that per the national law
governing park regions that it is within the government’s rights
to grant activities within any national park,” he said. “But,
ultimately, it is the government’s decision and we will abide by
that decision.”  The company is already exploring a second block, Nganzi, in
western Congo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 