-- 
Sodic Delays Cairo, Damascus Projects on Egypt Unrest

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-17T19:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/sodic-delays-cairo-damascus-projects-on-egypt-unrest-update1-.html
Sixth of October Development &
Investment Co. has delayed starting projects on the outskirts of
Cairo and Damascus by a month and expects “weak” 2011 sales
due to recent unrest in  Egypt , its chief executive officer Maher Maksoud said.  “Over the next twelve months, we expect things to be
settling down,” Maksoud said in an interview in Cairo, where
the company is based. “There’s going to be some degree of
instability in the very short term on the level of contracting
because of the bank closure.”  The North African country’s third-biggest real estate
developer also known as Sodic, which must deliver projects to
record revenue, is betting on positive market conditions in
Egypt in three to five years, when it expects to begin delivery
of its East Town projects, Maksoud said.  A popular revolution that toppled the 30-year-old regime of
former President  Hosni Mubarak  has brought the country’s economy
to a standstill. At least 1 million tourists have fled, while
banks and the stock exchange, which has been closed since Jan.
27, remain closed and will not reopen at least until the end of
the week.  The start of projects at Sodic’s 15 billion Egyptian pound
($2.6 billion) East Town development on the outskirts of Cairo
have been delayed to April from March, Maksoud said, as has
construction at the company’s 50-50 joint venture with  Syria ’s
Palmyra Real Estate Development Co.’s $600 million residential
development.  Oriental, EFG-Hermes  Sodic today became the third public company this week to
distance itself from Mubarak. The company said in a statement on
its website that non-executive chairman Magdi Rasekh, the
father-in-law of Mubarak’s eldest son Alaa, owns 649 shares in
the company, or 0.0017 percent. Maksoud said the company hasn’t
received special treatment in any of its land acquisitions.
Rasekh, one of 6,000 founding shareholders of Sodic, sold most
of his 8 percent stake in 2005, Maksoud said.    Oriental Weavers  Co., the world’s biggest machine-made
carpet maker, which counts as its biggest shareholder Mohamed Farid Khamis, a senior member of Mubarak’s former ruling party,
said Feb. 14 that the Mubarek family doesn’t own shares in the
company. EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, said Feb. 13 its relationship with Mubarak’s
son, Gamal, is limited to an 18 percent stake in one of its
subsidiaries.  “There was a big overhang related to succession and it has
now been removed,” Sodic’s Maksoud said. “We all expected
chaos one day, and it could have happened in an unstable
environment. But the chaos happened before hopefully a
democratic election where the people feel like they own the
country, so this is the best possible scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  