-- 
Solvay Will ‘Never Overpay’ as Takeover Tops Agenda

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-17T17:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/solvay-will-never-overpay-as-takeover-tops-agenda-update1-.html
  Solvay SA , the chemicals maker that
got $6.1 billion for its drug unit a year ago, said acquisitions
remain a priority and Chief Executive Officer Christian Jourquin
has no concerns about his search failing because of financial
discipline.  “We will never overpay for a target,” Jourquin told
reporters in Brussels today. “We have made an in-depth analysis
of the market segments where we want to invest and in each of
these segments we have targets. I don’t have the feeling we will
be left empty-handed.”  Solvay could spend as much as 5.98 billion euros ($8.13
billion) on purchases, taking into account its long-term goal of
keeping net debt at less than 45 percent of  shareholders’
equity . Its cash and short-term investments returned only 0.5
percent on an annual basis last year and cash less financial
debt of 2.9 billion euros accounts for 41 percent of its current
market value.  There is a “high degree of uncertainty regarding what the
other half of the company is going to be after the money has
been spent,” Jan Hein de Vroe, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam with a “hold” rating on the shares, wrote in a note
today. “Operational strength partly masks the lack of clarity
on M&A.”  Time may be against Solvay as valuations in the industry
have increased. The median Ebitda multiple for 67 acquisitions
of chemical makers announced so far this year was 9.32 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to Bloomberg data. That’s an increase from the median
8.56 multiple for the 556 chemical deals for all of last year.  Dividend Rises  The soda-ash maker raised its final dividend for the first
time in three years, increasing the full-year payout by 4.5
percent to 3.07 euros a share. The company also plans to
repurchase as many as 1.65 million shares this year, potentially
doubling buybacks from last year.  Solvay rose 4.8 percent, the most in nine months, to 84.17
euros at the 5:35 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels
after reporting fourth-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates. That’s the highest closing value since September
2008.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax and one-time
items from continuing operations rose 75 percent to 155 million
euros ($210 million), the Brussels-based company said in a
statement. Profit beat the 124 million-euro median estimate of
six analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Winter Trade  Sales from continuing operations rose 14 percent to 1.65
billion euros, led by specialty polymers, an acceleration of
price increases for caustic soda and demand for PVC plastic in  Asia  and Latin America. Solvay’s operating margin widened to
9.41 percent from 8.76 percent in the preceding quarter.  “This strong performance confirmed comments of other
players that there was no usual seasonal slowdown of demand in
the fourth quarter,” Bernard Hanssens, an analyst at Banque
Degroof SA in Brussels, wrote in a note. “The reinvestment of
the pharma proceeds remains the main trigger for Solvay.”  CEO Jourquin has set growth in emerging markets and finding
new value-added products that are less cyclical and energy
intensive as priorities. Energy costs have been rising in the
past months and will be closely monitored this year, Solvay said
in today’s statement.  The chemicals and plastics maker said  capital spending  will
rise to 625 million euros, excluding acquisitions, from 538
million euros last year. Main projects include a PVC-plant in  Russia  and a facility for the production of hydrogen peroxide in  Thailand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  