-- 
Solvay Profit Beats Estimates; M&A Remains Priority

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-17T09:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/solvay-profit-beats-estimates-m-a-remains-priority-update1-.html
  Solvay SA , the world’s largest soda-
ash maker, reported operating profit that beat analyst estimates
and said reinvesting the $6.1 billion in proceeds from the sale
of its drug unit remains a priority.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax and one-time
items from continuing operations rose 75 percent to 155 million
euros ($210 million), the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Profit beat the 124 million-euro median estimate of
six analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The shares rose the
most in nine months.  Solvay, which received 4.5 billion euros from the sale of
its pharmaceutical division to Abbott Laboratories a year ago,
could spend as much as 5.98 billion euros on acquisitions taking
into account its long-term goal of keeping net debt at less than
45 percent of  shareholders’ equity . Its cash and short-term
investments less financial debt account for almost 43 percent of
its market value and returned only 0.5 percent on an annualized
basis last year.  “Something will have to happen before the end of this
year,” before Solvay will come under pressure to return at
least part of the cash to its shareholders, said Mark Van Der Geest, an analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam, who has a
“hold” rating on the shares.  Solvay rose as much as 6.1 percent in Brussels trading and
climbed 4.51 euros to 84.85 at 9:45 a.m. local time. A close at
this price would be the highest since September 2008. The shares
have gained 16 percent in the past 12 months, less than the 29
percent increase for the 23-company Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index.  Dividend Increase  The soda-ash maker proposed a final dividend of 1.87 euros
today, raising its full-year distribution to shareholders by 4.5
percent. The company also plans to repurchase as many as 1.65
million shares this year, potentially doubling buybacks from
last year.  Sales from continuing operations rose 14 percent to 1.65
billion euros.  Solvay’s operating margin from continuing operations
widened to 9.41 percent from 8.76 percent in the preceding
quarter. It narrowed in the fourth quarter a year earlier.  “This strong performance confirmed comments of other
players that there was no usual seasonal slowdown of demand in
the fourth quarter,” Bernard Hanssens, an analyst at Banque
Degroof SA in Brussels, wrote in a note. “The reinvestment of
the pharma proceeds remains the main trigger for Solvay.”  Acquisition Priorities  Chief Executive Officer Christian Jourquin has set growth
in emerging markets and finding new value-added products that
are less cyclical and energy intensive as priorities. Energy
costs have been rising in the past months and will be closely
monitored this year, Solvay said in today’s statement.  Solvay reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 2 million
euros because of a 74 million-euro provision for job cuts. The
total expenses will be smaller than an initially estimated 120
million euros, which was equal to one year of savings, Solvay
said.  The soda-ash maker said  capital spending  will rise to 625
million euros, excluding acquisitions, from 538 million euros
last year. Main projects include a PVC-plant in  Russia  and a
facility for the production of hydrogen peroxide in  Thailand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  