-- 
Sony Music Streaming Service Debuts in U.S. to Challenge iTunes

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-02-17T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/sony-music-streaming-service-debuts-in-u-s-to-challenge-itunes.html
  Sony Corp . and three record labels
started a streaming music service in the U.S., Australia and  New
Zealand  to challenge the dominance of  Apple Inc .’s iTunes.  “ Music Unlimited  powered by Qriocity,” which Sony
unveiled in September, started in the U.K. and Ireland in
December and in France, Germany, Italy and Spain in January. The
service is available on Sony’s PlayStation 3 game console, Blu-
ray Disc player, Bravia televisions and personal computers and
will be offered on smartphones using Google Inc.’s Android
operating systems.  The Japanese company aims to introduce the service, which
offers basic membership for $3.99 a month, in at least nine more
countries before the end of the year, Shawn Layden, executive
vice president for Sony Network Entertainment group, said in an
interview yesterday.  Music Unlimited, which has more than 6 million songs, lets
Sony Music Entertainment and partners Universal Music Group,  EMI
Music  and  Warner Music Group Corp . sell directly to customers,
giving them increased control over revenue as the industry
battles piracy and declining CD sales.  The U.S. introduction of Music Unlimited comes after Apple
said this week it would begin enforcing a rule in the terms of
service for its App Store that requires subscriptions and
content to be sold through an application at the same price or
less than elsewhere online. Purchases made within an application
are subject to a 30 percent commission that Apple charges.  Sony aims to support Apple’s iPhone, iPad and other mobile
products later this year, Layden said. He declined comment on
whether the new subscription rules would delay such a rollout.  ITunes, introduced in 2001, is the largest destination for
buying music in the U.S., ahead of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc., according to researcher NPD Group Inc. As of
September, iTunes had registered 11.7 billion downloads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  