-- 
South African Consumer Stocks Overvalued to Russia, RenCap Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-17T12:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/south-african-consumer-stocks-overvalued-to-russia-rencap-says.html
  South Africa ’s “weaker macro
fundamentals” make consumer stocks less attractive than their
Russian counterparts, according to  Renaissance Capital .  Lower per-capita gross domestic product and unemployment of
more than 25 percent in Africa’s largest economy make Russian
retailers, with more opportunities for expansion, a better
investment, analysts including Rohan Dyer and Robyn Collins in
Johannesburg wrote in a note to clients today.  “Overweight  Russia  versus South Africa in the consumer
space,” the analysts wrote after a week-long visit to the
country. “South African consumer companies are almost ex-growth
while their Russian peers are aggressively expanding their
footprints.”  South Africa, with debt at 79 percent of household income
and a savings ratio of only 0.1 percent, may fall short of
Russian consumers, who save 7.1 percent of annual income,  Renaissance Capital  said. Russian debt is only at 18 percent of
household income. South Africa’s retail consumer market is
“notably more” consolidated, while Russia’s still has “plenty
of room” to grow, the analysts wrote after visits to the
retailers’ stores and meetings with management teams.  The FTSE/JSE Africa General Retail Index has fallen 6.7
percent so far this year after advancing 56 percent in 2010. Of
the 10 South African retail stocks covered, Renaissance
currently has a “buy” rating on two and a “sell” on three.
Nine months ago it recommended buying four and selling one.  The  Foschini Group Ltd ., a clothing retailer, and  Lewis
Group Ltd ., a furniture and electrical goods retailer, were
Renaissance’s best picks.  Massmart Holdings Ltd ., South Africa’s
largest food and general goods retailer, agreed to sell a 51
percent stake to Wal-Mart Holdings Inc. for $2.3 billion in the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company’s first entry into Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  