-- 
Stanford Sues U.S. Prosecutors, SEC and FBI Agents

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-02-17T17:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/stanford-sues-u-s-prosecutors-sec-and-fbi-agents.html
R. Allen Stanford, the indicted
financier, sued U.S. prosecutors and agents of the FBI and
Securities and Exchange Commission, accusing them of “abusive  law enforcement ” and seeking $7.2 billion in damages.  Stanford, who has been held without bail since being
indicted in 2009, filed the lawsuit late yesterday at the U.S.
courthouse in Houston. He is accused of leading a $7 billion
securities fraud scheme and has pleaded not guilty.  “Mr. Stanford contends the named and unknown agents
undertook illegal tactics to prosecute Mr. Stanford, starting
with a civil prosecution by the SEC,” according to the
complaint. The SEC sued him two years ago today.  The Texas financier alleges the federal government has used
more than $51 million of his own assets to pursue the cases
against him. “The agents have engaged in unfair, abusive law-
enforcement methods and tactics,” he alleged.  Kevin Callahan, an SEC spokesman, declined in an e-mail
today to comment on Stanford’s lawsuit. Citing a court-imposed
gag order in the criminal case,  Laura Sweeney , a  Justice
Department  spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Shauna Dunlap, public information officer for the FBI’s
Houston office, where the Stanford investigation is based,
didn’t immediately return calls to her office and cell phone.  Stanford’s 39-page complaint names as defendants 12
individuals working for the SEC, FBI and the Justice Department
including attorney Stephen Korotash who leads the SEC’s civil
suit and criminal case prosecutors Gregg Costa and Paul Pelletier.  He didn’t sue any of those U.S. agencies directly.  Constitutional Rights  The financier claims the individual defendants violated his
constitutional rights, arguing they launched the civil
enforcement action solely to gather evidence for his criminal
prosecution, prevented him from using his own money to fund his
defense and took his away his property and personal belongings.  “Mr. Stanford is entitled to fair compensation for all
property and assets taken,” according to the complaint signed
by Houston lawyer Stephen R. Cochell. Many of Stanford’s assets
and holdings have been liquidated by a  Dallas  federal court-
appointed receiver in the SEC case.  That appointment was made at the outset of the suit and
without Stanford’s participation, according to the complaint.  “Through the receiver, the SEC agents successfully
stripped Mr. Stanford of all his personal and corporate assets
worldwide, which were valued in the billions of dollars,”
Cochell wrote.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “A lawsuit like that is very much an uphill battle,” said
Douglas T. Burns, a Manhattan criminal defense lawyer and former
federal prosecutor. Burns, interviewed by telephone today, is
not involved in the Stanford litigation.  “The lawsuit is going to be immediately met with immunity-
based defenses, that the agents are immune for their legitimate
conduct in the case,” he said.  Claims such as those lodged by Stanford “are only
successful if somebody is off on a lark, outside the scope of
their employment,” Burns said.  Houston lawyer Brian Wice, who is tracking the Stanford
cases, agreed, saying the case is unlikely to succeed.  “Stanford is running out of people to sue,” said Wice,
noting a prior case filed by the financier seeking to enforce
directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage and disagreements
with several of his now-former criminal defense attorneys.  “Suing the U.S. government is the next logical step on Sir
Allen’s highway to hell,” Wice said. “Stanford’s claim is
monumentally absurd on its face.”  The case is R. Allen Stanford v. Stephen Korotosh, 11cv582,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 