-- 
Strauss-Kahn Arrives at Paris G-20 Facing Question on 2012 Race

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-02-17T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/strauss-kahn-arrives-at-paris-g-20-facing-question-on-2012-race.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  arrives in Paris for the Group
of 20 finance ministers meeting as the focus of French politics.  Whether Strauss-Kahn, 61, will challenge President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in 2012 is “the only thing on people’s minds when they
see him in France,” Jean-Francois Doridot, an analyst at Paris-
based  pollster Ipsos  SA, said in an interview.  The former Socialist finance minister, who was nominated
for the IMF post by Sarkozy in 2007, featured on the cover of
two of the three national news magazines last week. His wife,
Anne Sinclair, was quoted in Le Point weekly magazine saying she
 does not want him  to stay in Washington at the IMF.  “He uses others to send signals,” Doridot said. “He
comes to Paris in his role, but he’ll also find a way to remind
people that  France  is his land.”  Strauss-Kahn is scheduled to hold a press conference Feb.
19 at the end of the two-day G-20 meeting. He is also due to
appear on the evening news the next day on France 2 television.
Asked about his political future in a Bloomberg News interview
last month, Strauss-Kahn declined to respond.  The speculation has hurt his popularity. An Ipsos survey in
 Le Point  Feb. 14 showed he lost the spot he’d held since
November as France’s most-liked politician, falling to fifth.  Support for Strauss-Kahn fell by 7 percentage points in a
month to  51 percent , according to the Ipsos poll of 965 people
conducted on Feb. 11-12. No margin of error was published.  Strauss-Kahn, whose IMF term is scheduled to end in October
2012, must declare his plans by July, the Socialist Party’s
deadline. In 2006, he lost the nomination to Segolene Royal, who
was defeated by Sarkozy in a May 2007 vote.  A January survey by pollster CSA found that 64 percent
would vote for Strauss-Kahn in a head-to-head campaign against
Sarkozy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 