-- 
Swaziland to Track Possible South African Rate Rise

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-02-17T14:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/swaziland-s-central-bank-willing-to-track-possible-south-african-rate-rise.html
Swaziland will probably track any
interest-rate increase this year in South Africa, even as the
government looks to slash spending and economic growth slows,
central bank Governor Martin Dlamini said.  The kingdom, whose currency is pegged to the South African
rand, tracks its larger neighbor’s interest-rate decisions,
making its own announcement the next day. It reduced its
benchmark rate by 50 basis points, as South Africa did, to 5.5
percent in November.  Africa’s last absolute monarchy is facing an economic
crisis after a slump in receipts from a regional customs union
that makes up 60 percent of government revenue. The state has
said it will slash recurrent spending by 20 percent and fire
thousands of employees. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimates economic growth will slow to 0.5 percent this year,
while Dlamini forecasts growth of 1 percent and inflation to
accelerate to as much as 7 percent from 4.5 percent in 2010.  “I think interest rates have bottomed out and given the
threat that we have just indicated of inflation, a time will
come when our hand will be forced to look at increasing our
interest rates,” Dlamini said in an interview on Feb. 14 in the
capital, Mbabane. “We will have to be very cautious,
particularly here in Swaziland given our low rates of growth.”  Swaziland’s benchmark rate will probably rise in the second
half of the year, he said.  Bottomed Out  The central bank of  South Africa , the continent’s largest
economy, last month left its benchmark interest rate at a 30-
year low of 5.5 percent and said there wouldn’t be any further
rate cuts in the current cycle after three reductions in 2010.
The rand has weakened 8 percent against the dollar so far this
year, reversing last year’s gains and adding to increases in
fuel prices that resulted from higher  oil prices . Inflation is
forecast to accelerate more than previously expected, South
African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Feb. 4.  “We maintain that rates have bottomed and that the SARB is
likely to start hiking rates toward the latter half of 2011,”
Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset
Management, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Swaziland plans to increase debt to help it through a
fiscal crisis, brought on by a 62 percent drop in income last
year from the Southern African Customs Union, Finance Minister
Majozi Sithole said on Feb. 14. SACU shares customs revenue
between South Africa,  Namibia ,  Lesotho , Botswana and Swaziland.
Majozi will release the country’s 2011-12 budget tomorrow.  Bond Auction  It will test market appetite in March after a 7-year bond
auction last month sold only one-fifth of the 750 million
emalangeni ($103 million) offered. The government will sell 3-
year bonds with a yield above 8 percent, Dlamini said.  “We are still testing the market, but we are going to go
for a less ambitious amount and obviously we’re going to do some
research about the pricing of the bond,” Dlamini said.
“Obviously there is a premium if you invest in Swaziland in a
bond of that nature and that is obviously where more research
has to be done because we do not want to make the servicing of
that bond very expensive for the government.”  Investors would buy Swazi bonds only if it offers yields of
about 14 percent, according to  John Cairns , a strategist with  FirstRand Ltd .’s Rand Merchant Bank.  “The private sector will not spend their money at the
yields that they are prepared to give,” Cairns said in an
interview in Johannesburg. “Clearly people are very skeptical
about getting involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  