-- 
U.K. Commercial TV Channels Should Have Less Advertising, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-k-commercial-tv-channels-should-have-less-advertising-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. commercial television channels
should be allowed less time for advertising and put on an equal
footing with public-service broadcasters such as  ITV Plc ,
Channel Four Plc and Channel Five, a panel of lawmakers said.  Channels such as those run by  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc  and  Virgin Media Inc . are currently permitted as much
as 12 minutes of advertising an hour, compared with eight
minutes for public-service broadcasters.  The House of Lords  Communications Committee , in a report
published today, proposed that all channels be allowed an
average of seven minutes advertising an hour during peak time. A
reduction in the time permitted would also “greatly improve the
viewer experience,” the cross-party panel said.  “Our recommendations would encourage both public-service
and commercial broadcasters to provide their viewers with
quality original U.K. television programs,” Chairman Tim Clement-Jones, a Liberal Democrat lawmaker in the Lords,
Parliament’s upper, unelected chamber, said in an e-mail.  On average U.K. viewers spend 3.7 hours a day watching
television, according to the committee’s report. The five main
public-service channels, including the license-fee funded
British Broadcasting Corp., account for 57.8 percent of viewers.
The U.K. industry has an annual turnover of 11.1 billion pounds
($18 billion) a year and employs almost 80,000 people.  “We welcome the committee’s report and are considering
their recommendations before responding,” a spokeswoman for the
Department for Culture, Media and Sport said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 