-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 15 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-02-17T13:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-15-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Summary:  This week featured a fairly dry pattern for
much of the contiguous US while a stormy pattern brought rains
(1.0 to 5.0 inches) to southern Alaska and western  Hawaii  (0.5
to 4.5 inches). Across the contiguous US, a low-pressure system
moved across the southern tier of the country during the middle
portion of the week.  By Friday, high pressure and dry
conditions dominated the pattern for most of the country.
Activity across the northern tier of the country picked-up later
in the week with a storm system brining snow showers and lake-
effect snows to the northeast and another storm system making
its way into the Pacific Northwest.  Southeast and mid-Atlantic: With the exception of central  Tennessee  and a small section across Florida, most areas
received less than 0.8 inch of precipitation for the week.  The
continued dryness across the southeast has aided in the
formation of several brush fires in places from Alabama to
Virginia.  Winds gusting to near 50 mph aided fires the spread
across southwest and south-central  Virginia , which were likened
to fires from the historic February 10, 2008 event. Some
precipitation (0.5 to 1.5 inches) fell across northern Florida
and a stalled frontal boundary brought sparse precipitation (0.3
to 1.2 inches) to southern  Florida , which was enough to maintain
the current drought conditions without additional
intensification.  Across western North Carolina and eastern Tennessee, continued
dry conditions prompted the expansion of moderate drought (D1)
conditions and abnormal dryness (D0).  As reported during the
North Carolina-Drought Management Advisory Council Technical
Drought Advisory Team weekly teleconference, streamflows across  North Carolina  trended downward.  SPI3 (Standardized
Precipitation Index for 3 months), SPI6 (Standardized
Precipitation Index for 6 months), and soil moisture values from
the Climate Prediction Center indicate conditions slightly worse
than the severe drought (D2) indicated across the Carolinas but
relative wetness at the 9-month time frame (SPI9), some decent
well and reservoir storage levels pre-empted the introduction of
extreme drought (D3) conditions.  Continued dryness across most of  Alabama  prompted the expansion
of abnormally dry conditions across all of the state and a small
expansion of moderate drought across the central portions of the
state.  SPI6 and SPI9 indicate severe dryness while SPI3
indicates moderate drought and many streamflows are well below
the 20th percentile.  Great Plains: Recent snows have done little to alleviate drought
across Oklahoma and northern Texas as the liquid equivalent of
the snowfalls have been approximately 1 inch, resulting in snow-
liquid ratios of up to 20 to 1.  Most of these snows fell across
eastern  Oklahoma .  The low liquid equivalents and windy
conditions followed by a warming trend later in the week
contributed to an expansion of moderate drought (D1) conditions
across the central portions of the state. Across the western  Texas  panhandle, abnormal dryness (D0) was expanded as SPI-3 and
SPI-6 values indicated worsening drought conditions.  One report
of 1.5 inches of precipitation surrounded by a few reports of
less than 1 inch of precipitation were noted, so D0 conditions
were not expanded across the entire region.  Rockies and Southwest: Inputs from the NIDIS: Upper Colorado
River Basin Pilot Project reflected some recent precipitation
and increased snowpack measurements across south-central  Colorado .  In response, the western edge of the area of D2
(severe drought) was trimmed.  Hawaii, Alaska, and Puerto Rico: Rainfall across  Puerto Rico  was
minimal in coverage with the most significant rains (1.0 to 2.0
inches) falling across the northwestern sections and east-
central sections of the island.  Light precipitation (generally
less than 0.5 inch) was reported across most of the island with
the exception of the southwestern quadrant where dryness
continued.  A stormy pattern brought more rains (0.5 to 6.6 inches) across
southern Alaska.  This prompted a small reduction in the
coverage of D0H (abnormal dryness) across south-central Alaska.
Dry conditions continued across interior  Alaska  with less than
0.5 inch of precipitation reported at any station.  The drought status across Hawaii remained unchanged as the
western islands continued to receive the most precipitation and
dryness continued across the big island.  Looking Ahead: February 16 to February 22, 2001: The atmospheric
flow pattern is expected to bring significant precipitation to
central  California  and the Intermountain West.  The storm track
should support some of this moisture moving across the central
Great Plains.  Most of the southeast should remain locked in a
dry pattern through early next week before some precipitation is
likely across the lower Mississippi River Valley.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  