-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Feb. 16 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-02-17T19:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-feb-16-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  A reprieve from extreme cold in much of the country this week
limited space-heating demand, contributing to price declines.
The biggest price decreases occurred in the Northeast. During
the report week (February 9-16), the Henry Hub spot price
decreased $0.29 to $3.93 per million Btu (MMBtu).  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), futures prices also
decreased. The futures contract for March delivery decreased by
$0.12 on the week to $3.92 per MMBtu.  As of Friday, February 11, working gas in underground storage
was 1,911 billion cubic feet (Bcf), which is 6.3 percent below
the 5-year (2006-2010) average, according to the Energy
Information Administration’s (EIA) Weekly Natural Gas Storage
Report (WNGSR).  The natural gas rotary rig count decreased by 5 rigs this week
to 906, according to data reported on February 11 by Baker
Hughes Incorporated. The number of rigs dedicated to drilling
for natural gas prospects is currently 15 higher than this time
last year.  NYMEX Natural Gas Futures Near-Month Contract Settlement Price,
West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil Spot Price, and  Henry Hub 
Natural Gas Spot Price Graph  Prices  As the extreme cold left much of the lower 48 States this week,
natural gas demand for space heating and as a fuel for electric  power plants  fell precipitously. Compared with the prior report
week, U.S. natural gas average daily consumption decreased about
17.1 percent to 82.1 Bcf, according to BENTEK Energy, LLC.
Combined consumption in the residential and commercial sectors
decreased 23.3 percent to 40.2 Bcf per day. This lower demand
contributed to widespread and, in many cases, steep declines in
prices. The Henry Hub price decreased on the week by $0.29 per
MMBtu, or 6.9 percent, while prices at most other markets in the  Gulf of Mexico  Producing region decreased in the range of 32-45
cents per MMBtu, or between 8-10 percent. The spot price for
natural gas in West Texas on the El Paso Natural Gas pipeline
declined $0.55 per MMBtu to $3.83 per MMBtu, illustrating the
sharp declines in many regions where temperatures have warmed
after last week’s cold spell. During the most recent cold spell,
over 5 Bcf per day of domestic production was off-line due to
freezing of equipment and maintenance. However, production
levels have now recovered to near those seen before the deep
freeze. During the report week, production increased 4.3 percent
in comparison with the prior week. The general level of prices
continues to be much lower than this time last year. Wednesday’s
Henry Hub price of $3.93 per MMBtu was 30 percent lower than the
price of $5.65 per MMBtu on February 16, 2010.  Prices declined most severely in the Northeast, where reduced
consumption allowed pipelines to lift constraints. Several
market centers in the Northeast region posted declines of more
than $4.00 per MMBtu, or more than 45 percent on the week. For
delivery in Zone 6   New York ) off Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line,
the price yesterday (February 16) averaged $4.63 per MMBtu,
which was $7.02 less than the previous Wednesday’s price. During
the report week, the Transco Zone 6 price was, on average, about
$1.39 per MMBtu higher than the Henry Hub’s, a significant
decrease from the prior week’s average differential of $4.40 per
MMBtu. The closely-watched difference in the Northeast price
over Gulf of Mexico regional prices tends to fluctuate severely
during the winter. Interstate pipelines have limited flexibility
to transport non-firm supplies between the two markets because
of colder weather and the associated increase in space-heating
demand in the Northeast, causing differences in local supply and
demand conditions to develop. The lower premium during this
report week was the result of temperatures in the Northeast
rising to above-normal levels, which reduced heating demand and
allowed greater flexibility on the region’s transportation
system.  Further to the west, week-to-week price decreases were less
severe in the Rockies and California markets. At Rockies trading
locations, prices started the week much lower than in the
Northeast and decreases during the report week were generally
less than 7 percent. The price for supplies on Kern River
Pipeline in  Utah  (for delivery into California) decreased just
$0.19 to $3.80 per MMBtu. Yesterday’s price of $3.73 per MMBtu
for natural gas off of Colorado Interstate Pipeline Company (the
lowest price in the country) represented a decrease of $0.27 per
MMBtu on the week.  U.S. imports of natural gas were significantly lower during the
report week in comparison with the prior week. According to
BENTEK, which monitors flows on the continental pipeline network,
U.S imports from Canada during the report week decreased 10.9
percent relative to the prior week to 7.5 Bcf per day. U.S.
imports from  Canada  were also 9.7 percent lower in comparison
with this time last year. LNG imports (as measured by sendout
from regasification terminals) averaged 1.2 Bcf per day during
this report week, which was roughly equivalent with the prior
week, but about 31 percent lower than this time last year. The
declines in pipeline and LNG imports likely resulted from
suppliers expecting relative price weakness during the week
because of lower demand.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the near-month contract (for March
delivery) decreased $0.12 during the report week to $3.921 per
MMBtu. With the weather outlook for much of the country
indicating moderate temperatures will continue, the price of the
March contract decreased in relatively small increments in three
of five trading sessions during the report week. The March
contract is now priced almost $0.40 lower than the final
expiration price of the February 2011 contract. Downward price
pressure also appears related to a very strong outlook for
domestic production. At the end of trading yesterday, the 12-
month strip, which is the average for natural gas futures
contracts over the next year, was priced at $4.28 per MMBtu, a
decrease of about $0.12 per MMBtu, or 2.8 percent, since last
Wednesday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,911 Bcf as of Friday,
February 11, according to EIA’s WNGSR (see Storage Figure
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html ). The 233
Bcf draw is much larger than the 5-year average draw for the
week of 150 Bcf and last year’s draw of 190 Bcf. Stocks are now
141 Bcf below last year’s level and 128 Bcf below the 5-year
average.  The week’s draw marks the fourth week in a row that stocks have
declined more rapidly than last year. A continuing dip in
production largely due to freeze-offs in gas-producing regions
has contributed to a larger year-over-year draw for the past
several weeks. The resumption of colder weather relative to last
year also necessitated a larger draw for residential and
commercial heating. As a result of the recent large withdrawals
from storage, inventories in the East region are now at their
lowest point in the last 5 years, 12.6 percent below the 5-year
average.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending
February 10 were colder than normal for the third week in a row
and also colder than last year. The  National Weather Service ’s
degree-day data show that the temperature in the lower 48 States
last week averaged 30.3 degrees, 4.9 degrees colder than the 5-
year average and 2.1 degrees colder than last year (See
Temperature Maps and Data
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html ). Every region
of the country was colder than normal with the exceptions of the
Pacific census region. The West South Central Census region was
a dramatic 12.6 degrees colder than normal. Heating degree days
nationwide were about 16 percent above average, and 7 percent
above last year.  Other Market Trends  EIA Unveils New Website. This week, EIA unveiled its new website
at  http://www.eia.gov/ . The new site includes several new
features, including a new logo, homepage, and improved
navigation. The website also brings with it the Today in Energy
page, a user-friendly energy education product that provides
timely analysis of current issues in energy.  EIA Releases Oman Country Analysis Brief. EIA released a Country
Analysis Brief (CAB) on Oman
 http://www.eia.gov/countries/country-energy-data.cfm?fips=MU  on
February 8. Oman, which borders the  United Arab Emirates ,  Saudi
Arabia , and Yemen, is the largest non-OPEC exporter of oil in
the Middle East, and possesses significant oil and natural gas
reserves. Oman’s proved oil reserves total 5.5 billion barrels,
while proved natural gas reserves total 30 trillion cubic feet
(Tcf). On the other hand, nearby Qatar has 896 Tcf of natural
gas reserves. The country currently requires an increasing
supply of natural gas to meet demand for domestic consumption,
gas reinjection use, and export obligations. Oman has
experienced service interruptions for electric power consumers
as a result of having too little natural gas, and the Ministry
of Oil has announced plans to increase reserves by one Tcf per
year for the next 20 years through programs akin to enhanced oil
recovery techniques used in the oil sector. More Country
Analysis Briefs are available here:
 http://www.eia.gov/countries/   Natural Gas Transportation Update  With warmer temperatures moving into the lower 48 States,
pipeline companies relaxed flow restrictions this week. The
return to nonpeak flow conditions on the interstate pipeline
grid was perhaps most noticeable in the Midwest and Midcontinent,
where Natural Gas Pipeline of America ended a Cold Weather
Advisory that had been in place since February 1. Other pipeline
companies, such as CenterPoint Energy Gas Transmission Company
and Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline Corporation, both with
service territories in the Midcontinent, also rescinded critical
notices from the prior week.  Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company declared a force majeure event
Friday, February 11, for Station 214 in Carrolton,  Ohio , after a
possible rupture occurred in the vicinity.  Tennessee  reported no
injuries and no interruption in service. However, the pipeline
this week said it will limit imbalances on its system in some
market areas as a result of the incident and other reductions in
operational flexibility.  Sea Robin Pipeline Company this week said it will halt
operations at its compressor station in Erath,  Louisiana ,
starting Wednesday for scheduled maintenance. According to Sea
Robin, interconnects with Columbia Gulf and Henry Hub-Sabine 2-
South will be the only delivery points physically available for
nominations during this work. All remaining high-pressure
delivery points downstream of Erath will remain shut-in until
further notice.  Kern River Gas Transmission Corporation announced on Monday that
it had completed an emergency shutdown test and maintenance on
two units at its compressor station in Fillmore,  California . The
station resumed full service on Wednesday, Kern River said, and
operational system capacity through Veyo Compressor station was
returned to the monthly default capacity of about 2,200 million
cubic feet per day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  