-- 
U.S. House Presses to Complete Work on Budget-Cutting Measure

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-house-presses-to-complete-work-on-61-billion-budget-cutting-measure.html
The U.S. House could complete work
as soon as today on a bill to cut the federal budget by at least
$61 billion as lawmakers work their way through hundreds of
proposed amendments to the plan.  The chamber voted yesterday, 233-198, to kill an
alternative engine program for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter,
part of a push by lawmakers to seek even deeper cuts in
spending. Backers of the program included House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican.  More than half of the chamber’s 87 Republican freshman
voted for the amendment that deleted $450 million set aside for
the engine program that critics called a waste of money. The
vote was also a victory for President Barack Obama and Pentagon
officials, who have argued the program isn’t needed.  “After years of throwing good money after bad to fund the
wasteful extra engine, the House has finally voted to end this
unnecessary program,” said Representative Tom Rooney, the
Florida Republican who co-sponsored the amendment. “Today’s
vote sends a message to the American people that Congress heard
their call to eliminate wasteful spending.”  Republicans split almost evenly on the engine, with 110
voting to end it and 130 voting to keep it. Among Democrats, 123
opposed funding the engine and 68 voted to continue its
development.  Boehner argued the program would produce savings for the
government over time. His district is near a plant that would be
threatened with job losses if the program were defunded.  The engine is being developed by  General Electric Co . and
Rolls Royce Group Plc.  ‘Open’ Debate    Michael Steel , a Boehner spokesman, declined to comment on
the vote other than to refer to the speaker’s comments earlier
this week when he said “let’s have a policy debate out in the
open, on the House floor, and let the House work its will.”  The House is considering more than 500 amendments from
lawmakers taking advantage of Boehner’s promise to allow a free
debate on the budget-cutting proposal introduced by Republican
leaders last week. Lawmakers probably won’t vote on most of
those amendments.  The plan, which would fund the government from March 4
through Sept. 30, would kill more than 100 government programs
and slash hundreds more. The Environmental Protection Agency
would be cut by nearly one-third, the  Peace Corps  would face a
20 percent reduction and Pell college tuition grants would drop
by 15 percent.  House Democrats, with the support of some Republicans, were
able to blunt some of the proposed cuts to their favorite
programs yesterday.  COPS Funding  Lawmakers adopted on a 228-203 vote an amendment by New
York Democrat Anthony Weiner restoring funding for the COPS
program, a law enforcement initiative by former President  Bill Clinton  that was set for termination. The chamber also adopted,
318-113, an amendment by New Jersey Democrat Bill Pascrell
restoring $510 million for first responders.  Maine Democrat Michael Michaud’s proposal to provide $80
million for the Economic Development Administration was accepted
305-127.  Scores of amendments are still awaiting votes, including
Ohio Republican Jim Jordan’s proposal to cut the bill by an
additional $20 billion. Other amendments would bar funds to
implement Obama’s health-care law, reduce funds for  farm
subsidies  and prevent government workers from implementing the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, created under the
financial overhaul Congress passed last year.  Freeze Proposal  The House budget plan is unlikely to survive in the Senate,
where the Democrats who control the chamber yesterday endorsed
Obama’s call for a five-year freeze of non-security
discretionary spending to help reduce the deficit. Such a freeze
would save $400 billion over 10 years.  The House vote on the engine program came just hours after
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , appearing before the chamber’s
Armed Services Committee, reiterated his opposition to the
initiative. He called it an “unnecessary and extravagant
expense, particularly during a period of fiscal contraction.”  Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , the No. 3
Republican who voted for the alternative engine, said “you look
at the military today, there are some very successful items the
Pentagon didn’t want.” He said the program would produce
savings because having multiple companies participating would
generate competition. “You would save money by having the
competition between engines,” he said.  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, scoffed
at those arguments, saying the issue was “parochial politics
versus fiscal responsibility.” The vote “is an indication of
whether we’re serious about saving money,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  