-- 
U.S. Loans in Foreclosure Tie Record as Lenders Delay Seizures

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-17T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-loans-in-foreclosure-tie-record-as-lenders-delay-seizures.html
A record share of U.S. mortgages
were in the foreclosure process at the end of 2010, matching the
all-time high, as lenders and servicers delayed home seizures to
investigate charges of improper documentation.  About 4.63 percent of loans were in foreclosure in the
fourth quarter, up from 4.39 percent in the previous three
months, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said in a report today.
The combined share of foreclosures and loans with overdue
payments was 14 percent, or about one in every seven mortgages.  Property seizures plunged at the end of 2010 as lenders
such as  Bank of America Corp . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
temporarily halted proceedings to review their handling of court
documents. That left more homes in the foreclosure process with
their status unresolved. Repossessions tumbled 32 percent in the
fourth quarter from the prior period, according to data from
RealtyTrac Inc. in  Irvine ,  California .  “It’s clear that the process issues were driving the
increase,”  Jay Brinkmann , chief economist of the Washington-
based Mortgage Bankers Association, said in an interview. “We
would expect the foreclosure inventory to start coming down as
that gets resolved and the court situations get cleared up.”  That share of mortgages in foreclosure tied the record
reached in the first quarter of last year.  Foreclosure actions were started on 1.27 percent of home
loans in the fourth quarter, down from 1.34 percent in the prior
three months, according to the report. The share of mortgages
with overdue payments dropped to 8.22 percent from 9.13 percent
in the third quarter as an improving labor market and an
expanding economy helped homeowners to stay current on their
loans, Brinkmann said.  ‘Robo-Signing’ Claims  Bank of America, JPMorgan and Ally Financial Inc. began
resuming foreclosures at the end of last year. The allegations
of impropriety such as “robo-signing,” the mass processing of
paperwork without proper verification, have spurred an
investigation by attorneys general across the country.  The foreclosure inventory of home loans held by prime
borrowers, traditionally the best-performing type of mortgages,
increased to a record 3.67 percent from 3.46 percent in the
prior quarter, the report said. Prime loans with late payments
dropped to 5.48 percent from 6.29 percent in the preceding
quarter, MBA said.  Foreclosures are depressing property values and
discouraging buyers who don’t want to make a deal if they think
prices have further to fall. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values in 20 cities dropped 1.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease since December 2009.  Negative Equity  The median sale price nationally fell 1.1 percent in
December from a year earlier, according to the National
Association of Realtors. Declining home prices contribute to
foreclosures because if homeowners who have lost equity fall
behind on their loans they can’t sell their properties unless
they are able to pay off the difference between their mortgage
balance and the sale price, Brinkmann said.  At the end of last year about 15.7 million mortgaged
single-family homes, or 27 percent, had negative equity,
according to Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based real estate
information company. It was the highest share in data going back
to the first quarter of 2009.  Federal Reserve policy makers described the U.S. real
estate market as “depressed” in a Jan. 26 statement following
the end of a two-day meeting in  Washington . The central bankers
said falling home values continued to stymie the  consumer
spending  that accounts for about three-quarters of the world’s
largest economy.  Real estate demand may be boosted this year by a broader
economic recovery. U.S. gross domestic product probably will
grow 3.2 percent, the fastest pace since 2004, according to the
median projection of 92 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Unemployment probably will drop to 9.2 percent from 9.6 percent
in 2010, the estimates show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 