-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for March to May 2011 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-02-17T14:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-march-to-may-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for Spring
(March-May) 2011, made on February 17, was based largely upon
climate anomalies associated with an ongoing, mature La Ni? that
has begun to weaken, with ENSO-neutral or La Nina conditions
equally likely by May-June. The CPC monthly and seasonal
outlooks indicate enhanced odds for below median precipitation
and above median temperatures across the southern tier of the
Nation and in the central Plains which favors drought
persistence from southern Arizona eastward into the southern and
central Plains, along the Gulf Coast States, and northward into
the Carolina Piedmont. Similarly, drought development is
forecast across much of the rest of the southern U.S., from
southwestern  Arizona  eastward into the southern and central
Plains, northern and southeastern Texas, and along parts of the
Gulf and southern and middle Atlantic Coasts. Although there
were some concerns in the Northwest that spring drought
development was possible after a mild and very dry January, a
good start to their wet season plus ongoing storms and enhanced
odds of above median March precipitation suppresses any notion
of spring drought development. Prospects for improvement are
indicated for the lower Mississippi,  Tennessee , and  Ohio  Valleys,
with some improvement predicted for the AR-LA-TX region, the
northern Alabama and  Georgia  border, and in the central
Appalachians. This is based upon enhanced odds for above normal
monthly precipitation in this area, plus some hints of wetness
in the La Nina MAM composite and trend, although the frequency
of occurrence is low. Drought relief has occurred in Hawaii this
winter, courtesy of heavy rainfall associated with La Nina, and
continued improvement is forecast for the islands remaining in
drought.  A very dry and cold December and January, along with spotty
early February precipitation, has resulted in expanding drought
across most of the middle and southern Atlantic States. Many
USGS stream flows from western South Carolina northward into
central  Virginia  have fallen below the 10th percentile (much
below normal). An exception to this was in northern Florida and
southern Georgia where late January and early February moderate
to heavy rains improved drought conditions and increased stream
flows to above-normal values. In contrast, USGS river flows in
north-central Florida, still suffering from long-term drought
deficiencies, remained at or below the 25th percentile. Since La
Niña MAM precipitation composites and the CPC monthly and
seasonal outlooks strongly favor enhanced odds for below median
precipitation in the southern Atlantic States, drought is
expected to persist or develop across  Florida , Georgia, and  South Carolina . In the mid-Atlantic   North Carolina  to southern  New Jersey ), the odds for subnormal monthly and seasonal
precipitation gradually decrease in the outlooks as one heads
north (e.g. become equal chances), and actually tilt toward
above median monthly precipitation further to the west (e.g.
central Appalachians). However, the La Niña MAM precipitation
composites hint at dryness along the coast while lingering
effects from last summer’s drought point toward persistence and
development. Forecast confidence for southern Atlantic States
are high; Forecast confidence for middle Atlantic States are
moderate.  Across the Southeast, La Niña MAM composites indicate the
highest negative precipitation anomalies along the central and
eastern Gulf Coast, from southern  Louisiana  eastward to
northeast Florida. The CPC monthly and seasonal outlooks
indicate the highest odds for below median precipitation along
the eastern two-thirds of the Gulf Coast, and lower odds along
the western Gulf. Subnormal precipitation odds in both the
monthly and seasonal outlooks quickly decrease to equal chances
as one heads north, and actually transition to above median
precipitation for March in Tennessee and areas northward.
Therefore, drought is expected to persist or develop across most
of the Southeast, except in northern sections of Mississippi and
Alabama where initial conditions are wetter and the monthly
outlook favors near to above median precipitation. Due to the
weak and mixed signals among the precipitation tools beyond mid-
February, some improvement is forecast in western Mississippi
and the northern border of Georgia and Alabama. Forecast
confidence for the immediate  Gulf Coast  States are high;
Forecast confidence for the remainder of the Southeast is
moderate.  From mid-November into late January, northwesterly flow,
attributed to a strong and persistent negative Arctic
Oscillation/North Atlantic Oscillation (upper-air blocking
pattern), resulted in abnormally cold and dry conditions across
the lower Ohio, Tennessee, and middle Mississippi Valleys. This
in turn caused a slight expansion of moderate drought and
abnormal dryness in northern Arkansas, southern  Missouri , and
southern  Illinois . Furthermore, the persistent and strong AO/NOA
suppressed the expected winter surplus precipitation that
normally occurs in the Ohio and Tennessee Valleys during a La
Niña. Currently, with the AO/NAO a non-factor and less
influential during spring, the CPC monthly outlook favors a
tendency for above median precipitation across the Tennessee and
Ohio Valleys. In the lower  Mississippi  Valley, the seasonal La
Niña MAM composites also point toward above normal precipitation
although the frequency is rather low. In addition, the seasonal
CPC outlook has equal chances. And as already mentioned, most
forecast tools and the CPC outlooks favor enhanced odds of below
normal precipitation as one nears the Gulf Coast. Accordingly,
improvement is forecast in the Ohio and Tennessee Valleys and
into northern Arkansas, while some improvement is expected for
the rest of Arkansas. Forecast confidence for the Ohio and
Tennessee Valleys are moderate to high; Forecast confidence for
Arkansas is moderate.  In most of Texas, near to above normal precipitation has fallen
since late December, resulting in a reduction of drought
coverage and severity across southern, southeastern, and eastern
sections of the state. Surplus fall precipitation had carried
the Panhandle into the winter without any drought impacts.
However, forecasts favor drier and warmer than normal conditions
during March which continue through the spring, although
subnormal seasonal precipitation odds are less than the monthly
outlook. Due to these relatively dry and warm forecasts, drought
is expected to continue (or worsen), and return to northern and
southern Texas. Forecast confidence for  Texas  is moderate to
high.  Following a very dry January, two heavy snow storms blanketed
parts of the south-central Plains in early February, but missed
most of the main drought areas. Some improvement is forecast in
eastern Oklahoma where heavy snow occurred and the La Niña MAM
composites indicate some wetness (but with a low frequency of
occurrence). Elsewhere in the central Plains, precipitation
tools at most time ranges indicate an elevated chance for below
median precipitation, especially the La Niña MAM composite which
has a high frequency occurrence. Just to the north, however,
forecast tools point toward wetness, plus soil moistures are
extremely high (above 90th percentile). This limits any
northward drought expansion due to existing moisture conditions.
Accordingly, the persistence area in eastern  Colorado  and
western Kansas was kept from the previous outlook issued on
February 3, while the area of development in the central Great
Plains slightly expanded northward and eastward in line with the
monthly and seasonal outlooks, but confined by the very wet soil
moisture conditions in the northern Plains and upper Midwest.
Forecast confidence for the south-central and central Plains are
moderate to high.  Since mid-December, drier than normal conditions have affected
much of Arizona and New Mexico. As of February 15, SNOTEL
average river basin snow water content values are 30 to 70
percent of normal in southern and central Arizona and New Mexico,
with basin average precipitation since October 1 running at
about the same values (32 to 75 percent of normal).
Precipitation tools at all time ranges indicate enhanced odds of
below median precipitation and above normal temperatures. Due to
a lack of adequate precipitation this winter, a tendency for
dryness during La Niña, forecasts of below median precipitation
and above normal temperatures, and decreasing precipitation
climatologies for areas already in drought, drought persistence
and development can be expected across much of Arizona and  New
Mexico , and into southeastern Utah and southwestern Colorado.
However, expansion is not forecast for southern  California  as
many locations have already exceeded their normal winter
precipitation and approached their normal ANNUAL totals from
December’s excessive precipitation. Forecast confidence for the
Southwest is high.  During the 2010-11 winter, heavy rainfall alleviated drought and
dryness on Kauai and Oahu and diminished drought conditions
across the rest of the central and western Hawaiian Islands
which is typical for a La Niña winter. Enhanced rainfall during
early-to-mid February and the ongoing La Niña favor additional
improvement in Hawaii. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is high.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  