-- 
U.S. January Leading Economic Indicators (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-02-17T15:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/u-s-january-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the
U.S. leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.1 percent in January to 112.3 (2004 = 100),
following a revised 0.8 percent increase in December, and a 1.1
percent increase in November.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“With January’s slight increase, following two large gains, the
U.S. LEI is still pointing to economic expansion in the coming
months. Falling housing permits and weakening labor market
indicators were barely offset by the continued positive
contributions of the financial components. The LEI remains on a
rising trend, with its growth rate picking up in recent months.
However, current economic conditions, as measured by the
coincident economic index, while improving slowly, remain weak.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board: “The
economy gained some momentum in late fall, and the latest data
suggest that trend will continue. The cumulative change in the
U.S. LEI over the last six months is a sharp 3.0 percent,
signaling continued expansion.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.1 percent in January to 102.1 (2004 = 100),
following a revised 0.3 percent increase in December, and a 0.2
percent increase in November. The Conference Board Lagging
Economic Index declined 0.1 percent in January to 107.9 (2004 =
100), following a 0.2 percent increase in December, and a 0.3
percent decline in November.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for  unemployment insurance   Manufacturers’ new orders,  consumer goods  and materials  Index of supplier deliveries - vendor performance  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Money supply, M2  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Index of consumer expectations  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, March 17 2011 at 10
A.M. ET.  SOURCE: The Conference Board 