-- 
Huawei Technologies Setback Shows U.S. Is Refusing Investments, China Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T09:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/huawei-technologies-setback-shows-u-s-is-refusing-investments-china-says.html
Huawei Technologies Co.’s
announcement that a U.S. government panel told it to divest
technology assets bought from 3Leaf Systems shows the American
government is using security concerns to reject Chinese
investments, a Ministry of Commerce official said today.  “As far as the investment activities of Chinese
enterprises in the United States, it’s clear that there are many
cases where the  United States  is using a security review to
refuse investment by Chinese companies,” Yao Jian, spokesman
for the Beijing-based Ministry of Commerce, said at a briefing
in the capital today. “You can say in some level it has
influenced Sino-U.S. cooperation. We also hope that the U.S. can
increase the transparency of the approval process and
give Chinese companies investing in the U.S. fair treatment.”  Huawei,  China ’s largest phone networks maker, this week
said it rejected calls by a U.S. panel to divest technology
assets bought from 3Leaf Systems and will wait for President
Barack Obama’s decision on the issue. The interagency  Committee
on Foreign Investment  in the United States recommended last week
that the Shenzhen, China-based company sell the assets after
some U.S. lawmakers said the deal threatened national security.  The 3Leaf case isn’t isolated, Yao said today, also citing
Huawei’s failed bid for 3Com Corp. In 2008, Huawei and Bain
Capital Partners LLC abandoned their $2.2 billion bid for 3Com
after failing to assuage security concerns raised by U.S.
officials.  Obama to Decide  Huawei’s refusal to drop its 3Leaf purchase gave Obama 15
days to take a stand on the panel’s suggestion, Bill Plummer,
the Chinese company’s Washington-based vice president of
external affairs, said in an interview Feb. 15.  Huawei, founded in 1988 by former Chinese army officer Ren Zhengfei, has struggled to expand in the U.S. as the federal
government considers whether the company’s phone networks pose
national-security risks.  Members of Congress wrote at least two letters last year
expressing concerns about the company’s activities in the U.S. A
third letter last week raised concerns specifically about the
3Leaf purchase.  3Leaf, founded in 2004, developed technology for cloud
computing, the lawmakers wrote. Cloud computing lets businesses
and government agencies move applications and programs such as
e-mail to remote networks owned and operated by a third-party.  Allowing Huawei access to 3Leaf’s technology could pose a
serious risk to U.S. computer networks as they increase use of
cloud computing, Senators  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican,
Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican, and Jim Webb, a
Virginia Democrat, wrote. Republican representatives Ileana Ros-
Lehtinen of  Florida  and Sue Myrick of  North Carolina  were the
two other signatories to the letter.  Huawei has said the allegations are unfounded.  --Edmond Lococo and Lifei Zheng. Editors: Anand Krishnamoorthy,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net 
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  