-- 
Uganda Will Deploy Security at All Polling Stations

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-17T11:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/uganda-to-deploy-security-forces-at-all-polling-stations-remains-on-alert.html
  Uganda  is deploying security forces
across the East African nation and at each of the 23,968 voting
stations for tomorrow’s presidential and parliamentary
elections, the police said.  “Anyone who tries to mess up around the polling stations
will be arrested,” Inspector General of Police Major General
Kale Kayihura told journalists today in Kampala, the capital. A
terror alert remains active because of reports that al-Shabaab,
the Somali militia with links to al-Qaeda, is preparing attacks
during the vote, he said.  Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, the leader of the
 National Resistance Movement  who has been in power for 25 years,
is facing his toughest challenge from Kizza Besigye, head of
 Forum for Democratic Change  and his former personal doctor. Six
other candidates are seeking to become president.  Museveni, 66, is likely to extend his rule by another five
years thanks to his economic record in a country where  Tullow
Oil Plc  is set to start producing oil and gas next year, with
volumes expected to reach 200,000 barrels per day by 2015.  The  International Monetary Fund   forecasts  the economy of  Africa ’s largest producer of robusta coffee will expand by 6.1
percent this year, up from 5.8 percent in 2010.  Museveni is backed by 67 percent of voters, according to a
survey by the local unit of market research company Synovate.
Besigye, 54, scored 19 percent. The poll of 1,979 people between
Dec. 3 and Dec. 14 had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  Explosions  Security has been stepped up since twin explosions in
Kampala on July 11 killed 76 people watching the soccer  World
Cup  on television at two venues, Kayihura said.  Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attacks and
warned further retaliation is possible against Uganda and
Burundi because they have contributed troops to  the African
Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia  that is helping the
government fight Islamic militants.  Museveni won elections in 1996, 2001 and 2006. The  Supreme
Court  found irregularities in the last two votes, in which
Besigye challenged the president.  About 14 million people are registered to vote, according
to the website of the  Electoral Commission of Uganda . Polling
stations open at 7 a.m. local time and close at 5 p.m. Results
will be announced within 48 hours after voting centers close.  Opposition Tally  Uganda’s Inter-Party Cooperation, a group of four
opposition parties led by Besigye, will tally and publish voting
results collected directly from polling stations, Sam Njuba,
chairman of the group’s electoral committee, said on Feb. 15.  Police will arrest anyone who declares independent results,  electoral commission  chairman Badru Kiggundu told reporters in
Kampala today.  “It’s unconstitutional for anybody else other than the
Electoral Commission to announce results,” he said.  In neighboring Kenya three years ago, the opposition raised
allegations of vote-rigging in a presidential election that
incumbent President  Mwai Kibaki  claimed to have won. That
sparked two months of ethnic clashes that left 1,500 people dead
and displaced another 300,000 more. The fighting eased after
Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 