-- 
Munich Re Says Natural Disasters in Germany Tripled Since 1970 on Climate

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-02-17T10:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/munich-re-says-natural-disasters-tripled-in-germany-since-1970-on-climate.html
German insurers’ losses from natural
catastrophes are rising as global climate change causes more
inundations and storms, Munich Re said.  Weather-related events have more than tripled in the
country over the past 40 years, Peter Hoeppe, who heads the
Munich-based reinsurer’s Geo Risks Research Department, told
journalists in Dusseldorf today. A rising trend is also
measurable worldwide, he said.  Insurers’ claims costs related to natural disasters rose
last year.  Allianz SE ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, recorded “high
losses from natural catastrophes and bad weather conditions” in
the three months ended September 2010, it said in the quarterly 
report  on its website. Flooding, windstorms and a hailstorm cost
the firm about 137 million euros ($186 million) in  Germany  in
the period, it said. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
also owns primary insurer Ergo Versicherungsgruppe.  “Climate change is a fact,” Hoeppe said, adding that 2010
was the hottest year worldwide since records started, according
to data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the
U.S. Higher temperatures are increasingly leading to extreme
rainfall and storms.  European winter storm Xynthia, which swept across Portugal,  Spain , France and Germany in February 2010, cost insurers about
$3.4 billion, while the earthquake that hit Chile in the same
month may have cost the industry $8 billion, according to
estimates by  Munich Re . That led to an increase in natural
disaster claims last year by more than two-thirds to $37
billion, exceeding the annual average of $35 billion over the
preceding 10 years, the reinsurer said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 