-- 
Uniqlo Wants to Enter India `As Soon as Possible,' Yanai Says

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M i k e   F i r n
-- 
2011-02-17T09:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/uniqlo-wants-to-enter-india-as-soon-as-possible-yanai-says.html
Fast Retailing Co.’s Uniqlo chain of
casual clothing aims to enter the Indian market “as soon as
possible” to tap faster-growing economies to bolster sales.  “We want to study details of the agreement between Japan
and India right away,” Fast Retailing President  Tadashi Yanai 
said in an interview in Tokyo today, referring to the trade
accord that the two nations signed yesterday. “We want to enter  India  as soon as possible.”  Fast Retailing, Asia’s largest clothing chain, plans to
expand the number of  Uniqlo  stores overseas in an effort to
boost sales sixfold to 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) by 2020.
Making Uniqlo’s 3,990 yen  jeans  available in India, where the
government predicts economic growth of 8.6 percent this year,
may help Fast Retailing stem its slowest sales growth in more
than seven years.  “The faster they open stores in India the better,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo. “It will give Uniqlo a head start to
building its brand.”  Separately, Uniqlo said today that it aims to sell more
than 10 million pairs of chino and cargo pants this spring and
summer. Fast Retailing is returning its focus to functional wear
after attempts to compete in trendy apparel with  Inditex SA ’s
Zara and  Hennes & Mauritz AB ’s H&M brands eroded sales growth.  Sales Growth  Sales at Yamaguchi, Japan-based Fast Retailing gained 5
percent in the second half ended Aug. 31, the smallest increase
since at least 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fast Retailing fell 1.8 percent to 12,340 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock slumped 26 percent
last year, compared with a 3 percent drop for Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Indian Minister of Commerce and Industry Anand Sharma and
Japanese Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara signed a Comprehensive
Economic Partnership Agreement that will abolish tariffs on 94
percent of trade over 10 years. Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and his Japanese counterpart  Naoto Kan  reached a
preliminary deal in October.  The accord gives companies in Japan greater access to India
as China’s presence in the region increases.  China  overtook
Japan as the world’s second-biggest economy last year.  Fast Retailing plans to add 44 Uniqlo stores overseas and
36 in Japan in the 12 months ending August, raising its total to
1,024, the company said Oct. 8. That’s the same pace of openings
as last fiscal year. The company’s second U.S. store is
scheduled to open on  New York ’s Fifth Avenue later this year.  “Big cities offer so many business opportunities,” Yanai
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Firn in Tokyo at 
 mfirn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  