-- 
Twelve Dead as Tourist Boat Sinks in Vietnam's Ha Long Bay, Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T12:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/vietnam-tour-boat-carrying-foreign-tourists-sink-12-dead.html
A tour boat sank in  Halong Bay , a
popular destination in northeastern  Vietnam , killing 12 people,
including more than half of the 20 foreigners onboard, a local
government official said.  Eleven foreigners died in the incident today, Ngo Van Hung,
head of Halong Bay’s management department, said by telephone.
The nine surviving overseas tourists were from  Denmark ,  Germany ,  Italy , the U.S.,  Australia ,  France  and  Switzerland , the Quang
Ninh provincial government said in a  statement  on its website.  Halong Bay, dotted with more than a thousand limestone
islands, is a  United Nations World Heritage Site  that attracted
48,000 visitors during the Lunar New Year week last month,
according to the government. The boat capsize, the second in the
area since 2009, comes as the  tourism industry  aims to double
its contribution to gross domestic product to 8 percent by 2020.  “The boat sank very quickly, between 30 seconds and a
minute,” survivor Stefano Sacconi said by phone from Halong.  The vessel, operated by Quang Ninh-based Truong Hai Co.,
 sank  at 5 a.m. local time in calm weather one kilometer
southeast of Ti Top island, Hung said. Fifteen out of the 27
passengers and crew were rescued, according to Hung.  An initial investigation indicates there were problems with
the boat’s hull, according to a separate  statement  on the Quang
Ninh provincial government website. “Crew members and staff
tried their best to deal with the water that flooded in and
alerted all passengers on board,” the statement said.  Passengers Expressed Concern  Passengers expressed concern to the crew that the boat was
listing noticeably on its right side at about 8 p.m. yesterday,
according to Sacconi.  “We asked the crew members why the boat was bending, they
said don’t worry, it’s something normal,” he said.  Sacconi woke up at about 4:15 a.m. to go to the bathroom,
went back to bed and couldn’t fall asleep because he was seasick.
He subsequently heard falling bottles from the boat’s restaurant
as the vessel started to sink.  “We were lucky because we kept the key in the door so we
just moved the key and opened the door,” said Sacconi, who is
Italian. “If someone was sleeping and kept the key somewhere
else, they wouldn’t realize fast enough.”  Sacconi said he didn’t see any life jackets on the boat and
no prior safety guidance was given.  Six crew members survived, according to Hung.  Officials from the tour boat operator couldn’t be reached
for comment when called at the company’s office, as they were
“out on the scene,” said a woman who answered the phone but
declined to identify herself.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Ryan Woo, Oanh Ha.  To contact Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-7399 or
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi 
 oha3@bloomberg.net . 