-- 
Vietnam Exchange-Rate Policy More Transparent, VinaCapital Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T05:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/vietnam-exchange-rate-policy-more-transparent-vinacapital-says.html
  Vietnam ’s variation of the dong’s  reference rate  each day since it devalued the currency is
evidence of a more transparent  exchange-rate  policy, according
to  VinaCapital Investment Management Ltd.   The reference rate was set today at 20,683 per dollar and
has been fixed at a different level each day since the dong was
devalued by 7 percent on Feb. 11. Prior to that, the rate had
been set at 18,932 since August. The official exchange rate is
now allowed to fluctuate up to 1 percent on either side of the
fixing, compared with 3 percent previously.  The changes are the first major policy initiatives by the  State Bank  of Vietnam’s incoming management team, which is
dominated by technocrats, wrote VinaCapital chief economist Alan Pham in a research note released yesterday. The narrower trading
band suggests the central bank will be “more proactive” in
managing the dong as well as the economy as a whole, wrote  DWS
Vietnam Fund Ltd ., which is managed by Deutsche Asset Management
  Asia ) Ltd., in a note released Feb. 14.  “The exchange rate is going to be adjusted flexibly and
incrementally, in response to market situations,” wrote Pham.
“Transparency and openness in policy-making is an effective
antidote to market uncertainty, and a reassurance to the local
as well as foreign investing communities.”  The dong declined 0.8 percent to 20,895 per dollar as of
12:51 p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. On the unofficial market, the dong traded at 22,000
per dollar, compared with 21,550 on Feb. 11, according to a
telephone information service run by state-owned Vietnam Posts &
Telecommunications.  The weakening of the dong on the black market since the
devaluation points to “continued pressures” on the currency,
Pham wrote. “Further steps to lower demand by tightening
monetary policy and improving the fiscal management and
efficiency of large state-owned enterprises are needed.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  Editors: Andrew Janes,
Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  