-- 
Vietnam’s Dong Falls on Speculation Companies Buying Dollars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T10:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/vietnam-s-dong-falls-on-speculation-companies-buying-dollars.html
  Vietnam ’s dong fell on speculation
local companies were stepping up their buying of dollars to pay
for imports. The government’s benchmark bonds declined.  “Demand for dollars is pretty high at present,” said
Nguyen Tu Lan, head of foreign exchange at Vietnam Bank for
Industry and Trade in Hanoi.  The dong dropped 0.8 percent to 20,895 per dollar as of
5:32 p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam set the daily  reference rate  at
20,683, compared with 20,698 yesterday, according to its website.
The currency, which was devalued by about 7 percent on Feb. 11,
is allowed to trade 1 percent either side of the daily fixing.  The dong plunged in the so-called black market, trading as
low as 22,000 as of 5 p.m. at gold shops in  Hanoi , compared with
21,840 yesterday, according to an information service run by
state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications.  The weakening of the dong on the black market since the
devaluation points to “continued pressures” on the currency,
Alan Pham, chief economist at  VinaCapital Investment Management
Ltd. , wrote in a research note released yesterday. “Further
steps to lower demand by tightening monetary policy and
improving the fiscal management and efficiency of large state-
owned enterprises are needed.”    Government bonds  fell, with the yield on the benchmark
five-year note climbing three basis points, to 11.53 percent,
according to a daily fixing price from about 10 banks compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. With assistance from Jason Folkmanis
Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  