-- 
Virgin America to Start Flights From Chicago O’Hare

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-02-17T19:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/virgin-america-to-start-flights-from-chicago-o-hare.html
  Virgin America  Inc., the low-fare
carrier partly owned by U.K. billionaire Richard Branson, is set
to begin flights at  Chicago  O’Hare after an almost three-year
effort to obtain gates at the second-busiest U.S. airport.  Daily nonstop flights will start May 25 between O’Hare and
both  Los Angeles  International and  San Francisco  International,
the closely held airline said today in a statement.  The carrier announced in May 2008 that it would seek to
serve O’Hare, which is a hub for both  American Airlines  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc.  Virgin America’s attempts were
stymied because the city of  Chicago  had leased gates to
incumbent airlines on an exclusive basis through 2018.  “It’s been a long road,” Virgin America Chief Executive
David Cush said in an interview. The airline will have three
daily round trips between San Francisco and Chicago and two
between Los Angeles and the Illinois city.  The Burlingame, California-based carrier agreed to lease
one gate in Terminal 3, Concourse L, for the flights. The slot
became available as part of an agreement for Chicago to acquire
the 11 Concourse L gates from  Delta Air Lines Inc ., the city
said. Delta vacated the gates and moved into facilities used by
Northwest Airlines Corp., which it acquired in October 2008.  Delta “is looking forward to working with city leaders to
complete the transaction and ensure the best use of the
facilities at the airport,” Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for
the Atlanta-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  Concourse Plans  Virgin America expects to lease the gate from Delta until
June, when the city will take over the concourse, Cush said. Six
of the concourse gates will be leased to American and five will
be used by various airlines, including Virgin America, the city
said in a  statement .  Virgin America eventually may be interested in leasing a
second gate, Cush said. The airline doesn’t plan to add
additional flights in Chicago before spring 2012, he said.  The carrier, which began flights from  Dallas-Fort Worth
International  on Dec. 1, also aims to start service at some
point in Atlanta, the world’s busiest airport and Delta’s
largest hub; Houston, a hub for United Continental; and
Philadelphia, a base for  US Airways Group Inc ., Cush has said.  The airline’s top priority is to gain slots at Newark’s
Liberty airport if flight limits are lifted there, he said
today. Virgin America has sought access to  Newark  since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  