-- 
Wal-Mart, Target Drive Canada’s Retail Stocks to Six-Year Low

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/wal-mart-target-drive-canada-s-retail-stocks-to-six-year-low.html
Canadian retailers’ stocks have
dropped to their lowest level since January 2005 compared with
U.S. peers amid increasing competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .
and  Target Corp ., the biggest American discounters.  The ratio between the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Retailing
Index and its counterpart in the  Standard & Poor’s 500  narrowed
to 4 on Feb. 11, the smallest in six years, according to
Bloomberg data. The retailing index has retreated 2.3 percent
this year, while a separate index of companies that sell food
and basic necessities has lost 1.1 percent, the biggest declines
among 24 industries in the S&P/TSX.  Target agreed to spend C$1.83 billion ($1.86 billion) to
buy leases for as many as 220 sites in Canada last month,
expanding outside the U.S. for the first time. On Jan. 26, Wal-
Mart said it will open 40 more supercenters that combine grocery
and general-merchandise sales in Canada through January 2012,
bringing its total to 164.  “We have seen a number of names react negatively to the
news that Target is entering,” said Candice Williams, a retail
analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc. in  Vancouver . “On top of
that, if you look at staple names, we have Wal-Mart announcing
further plans, and the question we hear from clients is, ‘to
what extent, with all the new competition in grocery, will food
inflation be able to be passed through to the consumer?’ ”  World food prices rose to a record in January as dairy,
sugar and cereal costs increased and will probably remain
elevated, the  United Nations  said on Feb. 3.  Opposite Paths  Canadian Tire Corp., Canada’s largest general-goods
retailer, has slipped 5.8 percent this year, while Home Depot
Inc. has gained 8 percent. Empire Co., the No. 2 Canadian
grocery chain, has declined 3.9 percent, compared with a 3.9
percent advance for Kroger Co., the largest U.S. grocer. Wal-
Mart has gained 1.2 percent. Target has slumped 11 percent after
missing analysts’ average estimate for December sales.  The sites Target bought are now occupied by Zellers,
Hudson’s Bay Co.’s discount chain. Target, based in  Minneapolis ,
plans to open its first 100 to 150 Canadian stores in 2013 and
2014.  Target recorded net income of $535 million and had free  cash flow  of $408 million in the third quarter and $587 million
of cash on its balance sheet as of Oct. 31. Hudson Bay cut 1,000
jobs in 2009 and reduced staff again last year, according to the
National Post.  “Where you had a weak competitor, now you have Target,
which has ample cash flow to invest in its stores,” said Alec MacIsaac, senior investment analyst at Tetrem Capital Management
Ltd. in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which oversees about C$6 billion.
“That is clearly negative for retailers who sell discretionary
merchandise.”  Vulnerable  Canadian companies most likely to lose customers from
Target’s entry include Canadian Tire and grocery chain Loblaw
Cos., which has been expanding non-food sales in recent years,
MacIsaac said.  Tetrem’s CI Canadian Investment Fund holds about 1 million
Canadian Tire shares. The fund has kept the shares because they
are relatively inexpensive and the company may raise its
dividend, MacIsaac said. Canadian Tire trades at C$11.75 per
dollar of estimated 12-month future profit, compared with
C$15.57 for the S&P/TSX.  Wal-Mart’s expansion in  Canada  comes at a problematic time
for food and basic necessities retailers, MacIsaac said. Profit
margins decreased last year as consumer food prices failed to
climb significantly, yet share prices surged the most since 2001
on forecasts food inflation would return. With Wal-Mart
providing more competition, that may not happen.  Margins  “Everyone is competing for dollars, and so the belief is
it will be hard for grocers to pass along food inflation,” said
MacIsaac, whose firm owns shares of Empire. “Therefore, margins
are hurt, and a lot of investors are avoiding them.”  While Canadian grocery prices increased 1 percent last
year, the least since 1994, the  World Bank  said this week that
global food prices have surged to dangerous levels, pushing 44
million more people into extreme poverty since June.  Pessimism over Canadian retailers isn’t universal. Loblaw,
Empire and No. 3 Canadian grocer  Metro Inc . each have more
“buy” ratings from analysts than “hold” and “sell” ratings
combined. Six of the seven analysts who cover  Forzani Group
Ltd ., the country’s biggest sporting-goods retailer, rate the
company a “buy.” With the exception of one downgrade of
Forzani shares to “hold” from “buy,” the ratings haven’t
changed this year.  “There’s going to be an impact, but I do think people have
overreacted and really sold off these stocks,” said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst who tracks Canadian consumer stocks for
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . “It’s created some good buying
opportunities on the Canadian Tires and Loblaws of the world.”  Cheaper  Loblaw’s price per dollar of analysts’ forecast profit fell
to the lowest since at least 2005 last month. The valuation of
Reitmans Canada Ltd., the country’s largest chain of women’s
apparel stores, has fallen to the lowest since April 2009.  Canadian retailers have demonstrated their ability to
withstand foreign competition over the past 25 years, said James Cole, who oversees C$800 million as a money manager at Portland
Investment Counsel Inc. in Burlington, Ontario.  Wal-Mart and  Home Depot Inc . entered Canada in 1994 and
have since grown to 325 stores and 179 stores, respectively.
Best Buy Co. opened its first Canadian location in 2002, and
Lowe’s Cos. followed in 2007. Limited Brands Inc., which bought
Canada’s La Senza lingerie chain in 2007, introduced its
Victoria’s Secret brand in Canada last year.  Canadian Tire and Loblaw shares have increased fivefold
since the end of 1994.  Canadian Tire’s third-quarter sales equaled 2 percent of
all retail sales in Canada, about the same as in the third
quarter of 2005. Forzani’s share of the Canadian retail market
has increased by 3.4 percent during that time.  “I don’t think it’s so worrisome to the stronger, better-
managed companies,” Cole said. “Canadian retailers have faced
this for a long time. Weaker chains that used to exist have long
since met their maker, and the stronger ones -- like Canadian
Tire, Loblaw, Metro -- have thrived.”  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 