-- 
Warren to Tap Former Credit Agency CEO for U.S. Consumer Bureau

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-02-17T19:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/warren-to-tap-former-credit-agency-ceo-for-u-s-consumer-bureau.html
  Elizabeth Warren , the White House
adviser charged with setting up the U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, has hired Corey Stone to head a unit that
will write rules for credit information firms.  Stone, 54, is the former chief executive of Pay Rent, Build
Credit, Inc., a credit bureau designed to allow consumers to
build credit histories by documenting rent and bill payment,
rather than by incurring debt.  “I’m joining the CFPB. I’m excited about being here,”
Stone said in a telephone interview, confirming the appointment.  The consumer bureau’s credit information markets unit would
help write rules to regulate credit bureaus such as  Equifax
Inc .,  Experian Plc  and TransUnion LLC, according to the agency’s
draft organizational chart.  The office will play the same role for debt-collection
companies such as  Portfolio Recovery Associates Inc ., Encore
Capital Group Inc., Asta Funding Inc., Asset Acceptance Capital
Corp.  Jennifer Howard, a spokeswoman for Warren, declined to
comment.  Pay Rent, Build Credit, also known as PRBC, was sold to
MicroBilt Corp. in 2008. Most recently, Stone has been a fellow
at the Chicago-based  Center for Financial Services Innovation ,
an industry- and foundation-funded institute that researches
financial services for low-income consumers. He was appointed to
the Federal Reserve’s Consumer Advisory Council in 2010.  Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the consumer bureau -- which
is scheduled to officially start work in July -- is required to
study the differences between reports provided to creditors and
those provided to the consumers who are the subject of the
reports. Prior to July, bureau employees are operating under the
auspices of the Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 