-- 
Wheat in China Drought Area May Recover, Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T09:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/wheat-in-china-s-drought-hit-areas-in-shandong-may-recover-official-says.html
Wheat crops in  China ’s drought-
affected Shandong province, the country’s second-largest grower,
may escape widespread damage if irrigation and rains replenish
moisture in parched soil, said a local water official.  “If the plants get watered after awaking from hibernation
and start greening, production won’t face any problems,” said
Yin Changwen, director of Shandong’s drought-relief office.
Shandong has “relatively” sufficient water reserves after it
reinforced some of its older reservoirs, Yin said.  Wheat in Chicago climbed to the highest level since 2008
this week and to a record in China on concern the worst drought
in 60 years will cut output in the world’s biggest producer and
increase its imports as global supplies tighten. The dry spell
hasn’t had a significant impact on crops as most were irrigated
before the winter, government meteorologists said.  “The question is whether effective irrigation can be
delivered in time to offset damage,”  Li Qiang , managing
director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said by phone from  Shanghai . “The production costs of wheat will certainly go up,
but that doesn’t mean China needs to import.”  In Shandong, about 34 million mu (2.3 million hectares) of
wheat out of a total 53 million mu have been affected by a
“largely light drought,” said the drought office’s Yin in an
interview Feb. 14 in Jinan. “About 90 percent of the total 53
million mu wheat can be assured” of access to water, he said.  Rain, Irrigation  About 30 million mu of wheat in Shandong were watered
before the winter, Yin said. The remaining 20 million mu didn’t
get irrigated because it hadn’t been necessary in the past or
the facilities to do so weren’t in place, he said.  Without rain and irrigation, output is likely to fall,
according to five farmers interviewed by Bloomberg News in
Jining, a region about 200 kilometers south of the provincial
capital Jinan. Jining grew about 10 percent of the 20 million
tons of Shandong output last year, official statistics show.  “Don’t let the government fool you: this drought is
destroying us farmers,” said 70-year old Li Zhongchun, who
farms half an acre of wheat near Qufu, the ancestral home of
Confucius. In addition to the lack of rain, the area has had a
freezing winter, killing some of the weaker seedlings that
normally would have been protected by snow, Li said, who
participated in the survey.  ‘Costly Investment’  May-delivery wheat gained as much as 1.1 percent to $8.79 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, and was at $8.755 at 5:21
p.m. Singapore time. The most active contract gained to $9.1675
on Feb. 14, the highest price since August 2008. Futures have
jumped 72 percent over the past year.  “Yes, the plants can recover, but it’s a big condition to
meet,” said Li Qiang of Shanghai JC, referring to the
assumption that the crops will get irrigation or rain in the
spring. “Clearly some of the losses are irreversible and
getting adequate irrigation is a costly investment” that some
farmers may not make, Li said.  “Planting wheat is too big an investment,” said 36-year-
old Hu Bo, a farmer near Liu Zhuang village. To water 1 mu needs
about 5 kilograms of diesel, costing about 50 yuan ($8), and
about a further 100 yuan for fertilizers, said Hu, standing next
to a 12-horsepower tractor used to deliver water from a nearby
well. Per capita net income in rural areas was 5,919 yuan last
year, according to the statistics bureau.  Fertilizer Subsidies  Hu farms about 4 mu of wheat near Jining, where Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited during the Lunar New Year to inspect drought-
relief efforts. The government is giving 20 yuan per mu in
irrigation and fertilizer subsidies, Yin said.  “If it rains in the next little while, we might get the
same yield as last year,” Hu said.  Any drop in output this year doesn’t mean China will have
supply problems or need to import wheat immediately to feed
itself because there are enough stockpiles to plug any shortage,
Shanghai JC’s Li said. Production exceeded demand by 8 million
tons while China’s net imports were 502,000 tons in 2009-2010,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  The drought in wheat-growing regions may persist into March
and rain may come “too late” to avert damage to crops,  Jim Dale , senior risk meteorologist at British Weather Services,
said in interview published yesterday. China may increase wheat
imports to bolster domestic reserves when prices ease, Tom Puddy,
head of grain marketing at CBH, said yesterday.  Supply Balance  The overall area affected by drought has declined,
according to the central government. About 36 percent of winter
wheat planted in eight major growing provinces were affected,
and 6 percent were under “severe drought” as of Feb. 14, the
Ministry of Agriculture said Feb. 15. That compared with 42
percent and 9 percent as of Feb. 9, according to the ministry.  Nie Zhenbang, director of China’s State Administration of
Grain, said grain supply is in balance with demand and
stockpiles are ample.  In past times before irrigation, drought damage to young
wheat plants was irreversible, said farmer Li Zhongchun. This
year, “it won’t be a complete loss,” Li said. After all,
“this is the home of Confucius, and even the heavens will have
to spare Confucius some face.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  