-- 
Wheat Rebounds as China Drought May Curb Output, Boost Imports

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-02-17T07:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/wheat-rebounds-as-china-drought-may-curb-output-boost-imports.html
Wheat gained for the first day in
three amid renewed concern that drought in  China , the largest
producer, may reduce output, boosting demand for imports. Corn
and soybean futures also advanced.  Wheat for May delivery climbed as much 1 percent to $8.7775
per bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and was at $8.75 at
3:19 p.m. in  Singapore . The price reached $9.1675 on Feb. 14,
the highest level since August 2008.  Wheat crops in China’s drought-affected area are likely to
decline without adequate rain, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of five farmers in the southern Jining region of Shandong
province, the country’s second-largest producer.  “China may have to import more as drought lowers
production,” Gu Jiong, an analyst at commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo today. The “trend hasn’t
changed and demand remains strong,” he said.  In Shandong, about 34 million mu (2.3 million hectares) of
wheat out of 53 million has been affected by “largely light
drought,” Yin Changwen, director of Shandong’s drought-relief
office, said in an interview on Feb. 14. “If the plants get
watered after awaking from hibernation and start greening,
production won’t face any problems,” Yin said.  The drought in China may persist for a further month and
rain may come “too late” to avert crop damage, according to a
forecast on Feb. 15 from  Jim Dale , senior risk meteorologist at
British Weather Services.  ‘Severe Drought’  China bought 1.4 million metric tons of wheat in the
2009-2010 season, according to data from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . About 36 percent of winter-wheat crops planted in
eight major growing provinces are affected by the drought, and
about 6 percent of the crops were under “severe drought” as of
Feb. 14, the Ministry of Agriculture said on Feb. 15.  A weakening dollar also increased investor demand for
wheat, along with other commodities traded in the U.S. currency,
Yutaka Shoji’s Gu said. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
currency against six counterparts, dropped for a third day.  May-delivery corn gained as much as 0.9 percent to $7.0725
a bushel in  Chicago , while soybeans for the same month rose as
much as 0.7 percent to $13.885 a bushel. Rice futures advanced
1.2 percent to $14.85 per 100 pounds after tumbling the most in
eight months yesterday.  Agricultural commodities will post “significant gains”
this year and soybeans may outperform, according to Standard
Chartered Plc’s Abah Ofon, who said elevated prices may last
longer than in 2007-2008. “We see significant gains across the
agricultural complex this year, particularly in soybeans,” Ofon
wrote in an e-mailed interview published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  