-- 
Mets Minority Stake Draws Interest From Several People, Owner Wilpon Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-17T21:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/wilpon-says-mets-minority-stake-has-several-people-interested.html
New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon said
several people are interested in buying a minority stake in the
franchise, being offered because of a lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi
scheme  run by Bernard L. Madoff.  Wilpon, the team’s chairman, told reporters today that a
number of candidates have contacted Steve Greenberg, a managing
director at Allen & Co. hired to address the situation, since
the Jan. 28 announcement that the family is considering selling
up to 25 percent of the team. The Mets are worth $858 million,
Forbes magazine said last April.  Several candidates have begun the process of gaining
approval, which includes submission of financial records to  Major League Baseball , Wilpon said in a news briefing posted on
ESPN.com. He didn’t identify those involved or say how many
interested parties had come forward.  “Steve told me yesterday that he’s never run a process
like this, that he has gotten more real top-notch people to go
through the process,” Wilpon said at the Mets’ spring training
site in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida . “There are a lot of people who
have a sincere interest. How that is going to come out, I don’t
know.”  Wilpon also said the potential bidders accepted that they
would have no say in running the team.  “So far, that’s the ground rules they’ve come in on, and
they’ve come in very enthusiastically,” he said.    Jeff Wilpon , Fred Wilpon’s son and the Mets’ chief
operating officer, reiterated yesterday that a controlling
interest in the team isn’t for sale.  Trump Interest  Among those who have expressed interested in buying the
Mets outright are billionaire real estate developer  Donald Trump 
and Michael Repole, the co-founder of Glaceau Vitaminwater
sports drink, which was sold to The Coca-Cola Co. for $4.1
billion in 2007. A fan group,  BuytheMets.com , also is trying to
raise money to make a bid, offering shares at $999 each.  Trustee Irving Picard wants to recover $300 million in
alleged phony profits from Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling
Equities Inc., which owns the Mets, and as much as $700 million
in principal, his lawyer, David Sheehan, said on Feb. 11.  The Wilpons have said repeatedly that they had no knowledge
of the Madoff scheme, and Fred Wilpon reiterated today that “we
will be vindicated.”  “We did not know one iota, one thing about Madoff’s
fraud,” he said. “We didn’t do anything wrong. We lost over a
half-billion dollars the day he went under. I personally put in
money within three weeks of him going under. I know you look at
me like I have a third head but I’m not stupid. I wouldn’t do
that, risk my family’s money, if I thought he was doing anything
wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 