-- 
With Indian Mohapatra, Fashion Grows Feathers, Channels Swinton

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-02-17T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/with-indian-mohapatra-fashion-week-grows-feathers-channels-tilda-swinton.html
Last week,  Bibhu Mohapatra  was
facing the less-glamorous side of being a hot fashion designer:
He had to complete about 45 garments, some of which still needed
cutting, stitching and final fitting.  To all appearances the New York-based couturier was
unfazed, and the showing of his fall 2011 collection at
Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week on Tuesday went smoothly.  “I am very well-equipped for this,” said Mohapatra, 37.
“I learned every aspect of this business before I ventured out
on my own.”  After a decade designing for J. Mendel and Halston, India-
born Mohapatra introduced his first collection two years ago.
Now his skillfully draped gowns and elegant dresses hang at
Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, at prices ranging from
$1,700 to $5,000. Last month he received one of the $25,000
awards that Italian winemaker Ecco Domani gives to seven fashion
designers each year.  He said the new collection draws inspiration from the
distinctively angular and avian actress Tilda Swinton and from
Arthur Miller’s play about the 17th-century Massachusetts witch
trials, “The Crucible.”  “I call them urban pilgrims,” Mohapatra said. “It’s a
collection of extreme opposites: Voodoo and black magic versus
conservative, pilgrim culture.”  “This is much more sculptural than his earlier work.
There’s very dark poetry to this collection,” said Ken Downing,
the fashion director of  Neiman Marcus , in an interview at
Mohapatra’s packed presentation at Lincoln Center Tuesday.  Sporting exaggerated poufs, the pale-face models wore crow-
feather chokers and bracelets. Mohapatra combined curves with
hard edges, modest necklines with plunging backs, transparent
fabrics with solid -- often within the same silhouette. It
looked old-fashioned and futuristic at once, naughty and
elegant.  Lady and Vamp  “My client is still a lady,” said Mohapatra. “Now she is
a lady who can turn into a vamp.”  A smoky green leather jacket had chiseled texture and puffy
silver-fox sleeves. A floor-length metallic-gold gown with a
sculpted corset resembled a Surrealist painting frame. An
asymmetrical denim dress had a bunch of green-black feathers
shooting up from the waist.  “I thought it was stunning,” said designer  Prabal Gurung .
“Every season he gets better and better.”  An hour before his show, Mohapatra was juggling dozens of
activities backstage. He gave an interview to an NBC television
reporter. He adjusted 33 outfits to photograph a “look book”
that goes to magazine editors. He air-kissed friends.  Ironed Hair  Behind him, makeup artists applied green and black eye
shadow. Another assembly line pulled, ironed and teased the
models’ hair, turning it into perfectly sculpted futuristic
arrangements. Five minutes before the show, a Russian model
began sobbing inexplicably, smearing the makeup all around her
face.  Still, just as scheduled at 1:30 p.m., 33 otherworldly
creatures on enormous heels began teetering into a darkened
room. Mozart’s “Requiem” blasted from the speakers as throngs
of photographers snapped pictures.  “I am definitely going to invest in him,” said Gary Wassner, who supports young fashion designers like Jason Wu and
Alexander Wang. “We have a whole new generation of fashion
stars in  New York . Bibhu is one of them.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 