-- 
Rio, Woodside Affected as Two Cyclones Lash Australia

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-02-17T05:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/two-cyclones-threaten-australia-s-north-with-storms-flooding.html
Two cyclones in  Australia ’s north
have caused storms and flooding, affecting mining and energy
projects for companies including  Rio Tinto  Group and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd .  Tropical Cyclone Dianne was 385 kilometers (240 miles)
northwest of the Western Australian town of Exmouth and near
stationary at about 11 p.m. local time, according to the  Bureau
of Meteorology . The storm is  forecast  to intensify from Category
2 to Category 3 by 11 p.m. tomorrow as it moves southwest. Flood
warnings are in place for some Pilbara and Mid West regions.  The storm slowed transport at Rio Tinto’s iron ore
operations in the Pilbara and halted production at Woodside’s
Enfield oil field. A La Nina event has brought wet weather to
Australia’s east and north and typically increases the number of
cyclones during the November to April period, according to the
bureau.  Rio Tinto, the third-biggest mining company, said its
transport infrastructure is “slowly getting back to normal, but
not there yet.”  There’s been no obvious impact to production,
Perth-based spokesman Gervase Greene said in an e-mailed
statement today. Access to roads is “still problematic” and
the London-based company is checking for damage to its rail
lines, he said.  Woodside, Fortescue  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
said its Enfield oil field off northwestern Australia remains
closed today. Production was halted yesterday, Perth-based
spokeswoman Laura Hammer said in a phone interview.  Rain has created “management issues for staff” for  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd ., spokesman  Cameron Morse  said in a
phone interview from Perth today. He declined to say whether
production for Australia’s third-biggest iron ore miner had been
affected.  In the Northern Territory, Ex-Tropical Cyclone Carlos has
been downgraded to a tropical low after hitting Darwin with
gale-force winds and record rainfall. At 11 a.m. local time,
Carlos was over land 115 kilometers southeast of Darwin, moving
at 8 kilometers an hour.  It’s forecast  to re-intensify into a
Category 1 cyclone by Feb. 19 as it heads toward the Western
Australian town of Kununurra.  Darwin has recorded more than 400 millimeters (16 inches)
of rain since Carlos formed, triggering flash floods, blackouts
and closing the city’s airport and schools, ABC News reported
today.  Queensland state, on Australia’s east coast, was hit
earlier this month by Tropical Cyclone Yasi, packing winds
stronger than  Hurricane Katrina , which devastated  New Orleans .
Yasi followed deadly flooding in January and record December
rain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  