-- 
Won Rises to One-Week High on Stock Buying by Foreign Investors, Yuan Gain

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-02-17T07:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/won-rises-to-one-week-high-on-stock-buying-by-foreign-investors-yuan-gain.html
  South Korea ’s won rose to the
strongest level in a week as signs that the world’s biggest
economy is recovering spurred demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency also strengthened on speculation  China  will
allow faster currency appreciation before a meeting of finance
ministers from the Group of 20 nations tomorrow. The yuan traded
near a 17-year high after the central bank set the currency’s
daily fixing at the strongest level since 2005. Foreign
investors bought more stocks than they sold for the second time
in eight days.  “The won didn’t have a great week in the past week due to
heavy outflows but some of those flows are turning less negative
now and that’s supportive,” said Nick Verdi, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “The other factor that
is helping Asian currencies including the won is the yuan. China
may fix the dollar-yuan lower as we head into the G-20 meeting
this weekend.”  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,117.40 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier reached 1,114.85, the strongest since Feb. 11. Foreign
investors sold more Korean stocks than they bought on all but
one of the last seven days and the currency reached a one-month
low of 1,128.70 last week. Global funds slashed their holdings
of Korean shares by $1.7 billion this year.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against six
major trade partners, fell yesterday after minutes of the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s January meeting showed policy makers were more
optimistic about the  U.S. economy  but remained dissatisfied with
jobs growth as they pressed forward with monetary stimulus.  “The Fed minutes suggest that it was encouraged about the
U.S. economy but expect labor market weakness to persist,”
Verdi said. “The Fed could be looking to leave rates on hold
for the rest of the year, which is a negative for the dollar.”  South Korea’s benchmark five-year bonds were little changed.
The yield on the 4 percent note due September 2015 was 4.45
percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. The rate reached
4.51 percent last week, the highest level since the note began
trading in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 