-- 
World Feeding Itself Spurs Search for Answers: Eric Pooley and Phil Revzin

-- B y   E r i c   P o o l e y   a n d   P h i l i p   R e v z i n
-- 
2011-02-17T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/world-feeding-itself-spurs-search-for-answers-eric-pooley-and-phil-revzin.html
As the Tunisian dictator Zine el Abidine Ben Ali discovered in January, there is no surer route
to political oblivion than to deny people access to affordable
food.  On Dec. 17, after Tunisian police assaulted a street vendor
named Mohamed Bouazizi and seized his produce cart because,
according to his family, he couldn’t afford to pay bribes, the
26-year-old Bouazizi doused himself with accelerant and lit a
match. He died two weeks later. The riots that ensued --
propelled in part by anger over high food prices -- drove Ben
Ali from power and spread to  Egypt , Jordan, Yemen and Algeria.
Ben Ali may be remembered as the despot who was toppled by a
vegetable cart, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 21
issue.  The hunger that has roiled the Middle East was not caused
by the whims of autocrats and cops. It began last year with
crippling drought in  Russia  and later  Argentina , and torrential
rains in Australia and Canada. The deluges in Saskatchewan were
so sustained and intense that farmers couldn’t plant some 10
million acres of wheat, according to the Canadian Wheat Board.
“What is typically the driest province was never wetter,” said  Environment Canada , a government agency.  Shrunken wheat harvests in those countries, along with
cool, wet summer weather in the American Midwest that delayed
the U.S. harvest, helped drive wheat prices at the Chicago Board
of Trade up by 73 percent in the past year. Corn traded in  Chicago  rose by 94 percent during the same period.  Surging Prices  More recently, grain prices have spiked because of yet
another drought, this one threatening China’s wheat crop, the
world’s largest. In that country’s eight major wheat-producing
provinces, some 42 percent of winter wheat cropland has been
hurt by a dry spell, according to Agriculture Minister Han Changfu.  Overall, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization in  Rome 
says global food prices surged in January to record levels,
based on data reaching back to 1990.  “Whenever you get the market as tight as we are now,
hoarding becomes widespread,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a
senior economist at the FAO. Wheat prices may keep rising until
the summer because importers are speeding up purchases to outrun
inflation, Abbassian said. Prices are more likely to stay high
or go higher in the next six months, than to decline, he said.  Whether the world tips into agricultural catastrophe this
year depends on the fate of the wheat on the North  China  Plain.  “You need two perfect harvests through the summer of 2012
to get stockpiles back to an acceptable level,” says Jason Lejonvarn, a commodities strategist at Hermes Fund Managers in
London.  Demand Shift  Unless sufficient moisture reaches the parched seedlings, a
net exporter of wheat could become a net importer, further
stressing world markets. Short of that, a Chinese ban on wheat
exports would also send prices higher, meaning that global grain
shortages -- once thought to be a disaster of the past -- could
return.  Even American commodities buyers are feeling the pinch.  “There is not one crop you can point to that is without
supply problems,” said Steve Nicholson, a commodity procurement
specialist for International Food Products in  St. Louis .
“Production is not keeping up with demand.”  Even if the worst does not come to pass, this sudden
fracture in the global food supply represents a massive test --
or, more accurately, a series of them.  Feeding the World  At the most basic level, the crisis is a test of mankind’s
ability to feed itself. Industrial agricultural techniques have
boosted crop yields and kept food prices low for decades, but
the era of predictable abundance that fueled the world’s
population growth to almost 7 billion people may be over. Relief
agencies, already lashed by hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions, and government budget cuts, are ill-equipped to
handle severe food shortages.  Yet rising global food prices have pushed 44 million more
people into extreme poverty in developing countries since June,
according to the  World Bank .  “Global food prices threaten tens of millions of poor
people around the world,” World Bank President Robert Zoellick
said in a Feb. 15 conference call. “The price hike is already
pushing millions of people into poverty and putting stress on
the most vulnerable, who spend more than half of their income on
food.”  Developing-World Inflation  The price escalation is also triggering inflation in the
developing world.  “In many of these emerging markets, two-thirds of the
consumer price index is essentially food, energy and
transportation,” Nouriel Roubini, a  New York  University
economist, told Bloomberg News in January. “When these things
rise, it becomes a really significant social cost.”  The inflationary impact of the crisis is likely to be more
subdued in the developed world. While the UN estimates that the
poorest countries paid as much as 20 percent more for food in
2010 than in 2009, in the U.S., the world’s largest food
exporter, retail food prices rose just 1.5 percent last year and
will gain as little as 2 percent in 2011, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates.  “We are a food-abundant country and the last place where
food inflation is going to rise,” says Erick Erickson, an
economist at the Washington-based U.S. Grains Council.  Rising prices for food are more likely to boost inflation
in countries where growth is strong and unemployment is low.
That’s because in those countries, consumers pressed by food
costs are more likely to get pay raises, said Karen Ward, senior
global economist at HSBC in  London . Once inflation creeps into
wages, it quickly becomes general.  Chinese Paying More  China, with nearly double-digit economic growth, is an
example. Chinese consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January
from a year earlier, the government announced on Feb. 14, while
food costs rose 10.3 percent.  When demand is strong, as it is in China, companies are
more able to pass along their higher costs by raising prices,
said Rajeev Dhawan, the director of the Economic Forecasting
Center at Georgia State University’s Robinson College of
Business.  In low-demand, high-unemployment economies such as the
U.S., workers can’t get higher pay to cover their rising food
bills, so they cut back on other kinds of spending. Companies,
too, are forced to eat their higher costs because they know
raising prices will kill sales. In a weak economy, higher
commodity prices are “like a further tax on your growth,”
HSBC’s Ward said.  Central Bankers  For central banks, rising commodity prices are a conundrum.
They create two problems that demand opposite solutions. To
combat their effect on inflation, a central bank should raise  interest rates . But to compensate for sapped consumer spending
power, the bank should lower rates. Which course each nation’s
bank follows will depend on local economic conditions -- and on
whether its inflation concerns outweigh the chances of another
recession.  The second great test posed by the global agriculture
crisis is to wealthy countries and their financial systems -- a
challenge to respond in a manner that helps rather than hurts.  There’s no way to sugarcoat it: What’s bad for the global
poor has been good for the American farmer and the American
investor. The same record food prices that caused riots in  Algeria  and export bans in  India  have led to the biggest-ever
U.S. farm exports, sending Midwest cropland to record values and
boosting profits for rural banks and equipment makers, according
to a report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.  Farm Income Gains  Higher incomes let farmers repay debt in the fourth
quarter, reducing delinquencies and increasing profit for
lenders. Income for U.S. farmers is expected to jump 20 percent
this year, the USDA said on Feb. 14. Net-farm income will total
a record $94.7 billion, compared with $79 billion in 2010. Crop
values will jump 18 percent, to $202 billion.  As agricultural commodity prices have risen, global
investors have been piling into agriculture index swaps,
exchange-traded products and medium-term notes. Investments in
those products tripled, to $5.7 billion, in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter,  Barclays Capital  said
in a Jan. 27 report. New investments in agriculture-related
products totaled $2.6 billion in December, compared with $1
billion in November and $1.3 billion a year earlier.  The question is whether Wall Street speculators are making
commodity prices rise faster. At the height of the housing and
stock-market bubble that burst two years ago, speculators were
accused of pushing up crude-oil prices -- to a peak of $147 a
barrel for West Texas Crude in 2008 -- without regard to supply
and demand.  More Regulation  This led to calls for regulation that weren’t answered
until the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill gave new marching
orders to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC has had trouble gathering accurate data on the
derivatives markets, and it remains divided on how to regulate
them. In a separate attempt to tame price speculation, the
commission in January proposed stricter position limits, or
rules on how many futures contracts investors can own at one
time. These rules, if adopted, would affect a limited number of
commodities and firms. Whether they will do any good remains to
be seen.  Even before Dodd-Frank, investment in agricultural futures
was subject to CFTC caps -- and that alarm bell sounded a
warning last week, when Deutsche Bank closed to investors its
PowerShares DB Agricultural Double Long, an exchange-traded note
based on commodities futures prices that’s up more than 65
percent in the past year. A person familiar with the matter said
DB was concerned that the product’s underlying investments would
soon hit their position limits.  Commodity Speculators  Traders say they don’t boost prices, because trading is a
zero-sum game: For every buy, there’s a sell.  “Speculators will flock to a good, compelling, fundamental
story,” said Gary Mead, an analyst at VM Group in London. “If
you take away that good, compelling, fundamental story,
speculators will look at something else. In this low-interest-
rate environment, they’re searching for yield in whatever shape.
Right now, it happens to be commodities.”  Most Americans have not benefited from the food crisis. A
record 43.6 million people in the U.S. -- more than one of every
eight -- received  food stamps  in November, as the jobless rate
stayed near a 27-year high, USDA data show. In most parts of the
developing world, there is no comparable safety net, which is
why national leaders and non-government organizations alike are
trying to devise solutions before the worst comes to pass.  China’s Food Security  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao announced this month that the
government will spend 12.9 billion yuan ($1.96 billion) to
bolster farm production and fight the dry weather.  Benjamin Wey, founder and president of New York Global
Group, an advisory firm in Beijing and New York, predicts that
the Chinese government, to avoid social unrest, will impose
food-price controls, making producers and distributors whole
through subsidies.  In Bolivia, Finance Minister Luis Arce said a portion of
the $10 billion in his country’s central-bank reserves should be
used to increase loans to food producers and lower prices. The
Obama Administration won G-20 backing last October for a $1
billion Global Agriculture and Food Security Fund to get food
aid to needy countries.  In Ukraine, once the Soviet Union’s breadbasket,
Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk urged the World Bank to
create a world grain bank to “safeguard the global food
supply” and to “avoid unrest and to avoid fear.”  Food Reserves Needed  The World Bank has advocated a similar approach, calling
for the establishment of small, regional food reserves in
disaster-prone areas. Bank President Zoellick also recommends
targeted government aid for the poor, such as school-lunch
programs, and a free-market approach to price volatility, with
governments promoting transparency and preventing restrictions
on the flow of food.  When the Group of 20 Finance Ministers meet this month,
Zoellick will ask its members to endorse a code of conduct that
would prevent them from limiting humanitarian food aid even if
it violates export limits, produce better information on grain
inventories in emerging economies, and improve long-range
weather forecasts in at-risk regions such as sub-Saharan Africa.  The final test posed by the current crisis is the toughest
of all.  Climate-Driving Crisis  Scientists have been warning for years that carbon
emissions from cars, planes, factories and power plants would
make the global climate warmer and more chaotic -- altering
weather patterns to make some places more prone to drought and
others more prone to floods. And climate campaigners have been
wondering for years what it would take to galvanize the U.S. and
other nations into action.  The newly ascendant Republicans in  Washington  won’t
acknowledge the existence of the problem, let alone debate its
solutions. But other leaders are speaking up. In  South Korea ,
when President  Lee Myung Bak  created a task force to study food
shortages, he was blunt: “There is an increasing likelihood of
a food crisis globally,” he said, “due to  climate change .”  Business leaders are equally frank. “The fact is that
climate around the world is changing,” says Sunny Verghese,
chief executive officer at Olam International, among the world’s
three biggest suppliers of rice and cotton. “That will cause
massive disruptions.”  Civilization has faced down pandemics and world wars -- and
has emerged stronger for having met the test. The current series
of droughts and floods are not simply wreaking havoc on food
supplies. They’re harbingers of life in a hotter and more
chaotic climate. Could hunger, and the threat to power that
accompanies it, be what finally forces political leaders to act?  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Pooley in New York at 
 epooley2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Revzin in New York at 
 prevzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  