-- 
Wuhan Steel, Canada’s Century Iron Link for Projects

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-17T08:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/wuhan-steel-canada-s-century-iron-link-for-projects-update1-.html
Wuhan Iron & Steel Group agreed with  Canada ’s Century Iron Mines Corp. to jointly develop mining
projects, as  China ’s fourth-largest steelmaker seeks to cut its
reliance on ore purchases from producers including BHP Billion
Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA.  Century Iron, formerly known as Century Iron Ore Holdings
Inc., has three iron ore projects in  Quebec , the Chinese
steelmaker said today in an e-mailed statement, without giving
more details of the agreement. This accord came two days after
Wuhan Steel reached a separate deal with  Adriana Resources Inc .
to develop the Lac Otelnuk iron ore project in Canada.  Spot iron ore prices arriving in China’s Tianjin port have
surged 50 percent in the past year, according to the Steel Index.  Wuhan Steel  wants to be “self-sufficient” in iron ore supplies
in three to five years and reduce dependence on overseas
suppliers, General Manager Deng Qilin said.  The investments “don’t only help secure raw-material
supplies and cut production costs, but also break the miners’
oligopoly and help maintain our national interests,” Wuhan
Steel said in the statement.  The steelmaker has now invested in eight iron ore projects
- in Canada, Brazil,  Australia , Liberia and Madagascar, securing
“billions of tons” of iron ore resources and making it owner
of the most mining resources among global mills, it said in the
statement.  Wuhan Steel plans to boost steel production capacity to 60
million metric tons in 2011-2015 from 40 million tons, it said
in July. It made 36.6 million tons last year.  The company didn’t give any financial details on the
transaction. The Canadian miner will be soon listed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, Wuhan Steel said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  