-- 
Hyatt Posts Profit on Luxury Hotel Recovery in U.S., International Markets

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-02-17T17:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hyatt-posts-profit-on-luxury-hotel-recovery-in-u-s-international-markets.html
  Hyatt Hotels Corp ., the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, reported a fourth-quarter
profit as demand for high-end lodgings recovered.  Net income was $6 million, or 3 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $12 million, or 7 cents, a year earlier, the
Chicago-based company said in a statement today. Hyatt was
expected to have earnings of 6 cents a share, the average
estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Adjusted for
asset impairments and other items, earnings were 7 cents.  High-end hotels, such as Hyatt’s brands, have shown the
biggest increases during the recovery of the last year, after
being hurt more than cheaper competitors by the recession.
Occupancy at luxury hotels in the U.S. climbed to 66 percent in
2010 from 61 percent in 2009, according to  Smith Travel Research
Inc . That compares with a 64 percent occupancy rate in 2010 for
all hotels in the top 25 U.S. markets.  “We saw solid growth in demand and revpar, especially in
our international and select-service properties,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hoplamazian said in the statement.
Select-service hotels typically don’t have such amenities as
banquet facilities.  Hyatt’s revenue rose to $918 million from $889 million a
year earlier. Revenue per available room, or revpar, for hotels
owned or leased for at least a year climbed 3.9 percent at full-
service hotels in  North America  and 11.7 percent
internationally.  Corporate Rates  Corporate rates probably will increase “in the mid-to-high
single digits” this year, Chief Financial Officer Harmit Singh
said today in a conference call with analysts and investors.  The hotelier expects  capital expenditures  for this year to
be between $380 million to $400 million, including renovations
at five owned properties and additional hotels in the later part
of the year, according to Singh. Hyatt foresees “that
displacement due to renovations will negatively impact the owned
and leased segment through the third quarter of 2011,” the
company said in the statement.  Hyatt during the quarter sold four hotels, including the
Hyatt Lisle, Hyatt Deerfield and Hyatt Rosemont in the Chicago
area for $51 million. The hotelier entered into a franchise
agreement for each of the three properties. It also sold the
Grand Hyatt  Tampa Bay  for $59 million, and will continue to
manage the hotel.    Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc ., owner of luxury
brands including the St. Regis and W chains, on Feb. 3 reported
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by the lodging
recovery and a lawsuit settlement that resulted in a cash
payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 