-- 
Yen, Franc Gain Before U.S. Data as Middle East Unrest Spurs Safety Demand

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-02-17T13:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/yen-gains-as-spreading-middle-east-unrest-spurs-demand-for-safest-assets.html
The yen rose against a majority of
its most-traded counterparts amid speculation unrest will keep
spreading in the Middle East, boosting investor demand for the
safest assets.  The dollar dropped before reports that may show U.S.
consumer prices rose for a seventh month and unemployment claims
rose last week. The Swiss franc gained versus all of its major
peers after a security crackdown left at least three people dead
in Bahrain. The pound strengthened as  Bank of England  policy
maker  Andrew Sentance  said  interest rates  should rise.  “We see this conflict in the Middle East clearly spreading
to other countries now,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of
foreign-exchange strategy in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank AG. “This
is a positive signal for those currencies that are perceived as
safe havens, which is especially the yen and, to a smaller
degree, the Swiss franc.”  The yen gained 0.1 percent to 83.59 per dollar at 8:11 a.m.
in London. It rose to 113.44 yen per euro, from 113.55
yesterday. The euro was little changed at $1.3566.  The Swiss franc appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.2972 per euro.
It advanced 0.3 percent versus the dollar, to 95.63 centimes.  The U.S. consumer-price index rose 0.3 percent, after a 0.4
percent increase in December, according to the median estimate
by economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor
Department reports the data at 8:30 a.m. New York time. First-
time claims for  unemployment benefits  rose last week from the
lowest level since July 2008, a separate survey showed before
the department releases that data at the same time.  Third Day  Demonstrations in Bahrain stretched into a third day, with
protesters demanding democracy and the ouster of Prime Minister
Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, a member of the royal
family who has held the post for four decades. Police and
protesters also clashed in Yemen and  Libya .  Sterling gained after Sentance said today BOE policy makers
can’t be “relaxed” about the currency’s level.  “One of the benefits which we might see from a policy of
raising interest rates is a modest appreciation of sterling,
which would mitigate the impact of global inflationary pressures
in the short term and help to steer inflation back to target
over the medium term,” Sentance said in a speech in  London .  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.6130. Against the
euro, the pound added 0.2 percent to 84.12 pence.  Norwegian Krone  Norway’s currency weakened against the dollar and euro
after figures showed economic growth slowed last quarter,
reducing the likelihood the central bank will speed up rate
increases as it waits for demand to improve from abroad. The
krone depreciated 0.4 percent to 7.7972 per euro and slid 0.4
percent to 5.7485 per dollar.  Mainland gross domestic product, which excludes oil, gas
and shipping, grew 0.3 percent from the previous quarter after a
1.1 percent expansion in the three months through September,  Statistics Norway  said today on its website. That missed the 0.9
percent median forecast of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sweden’s krona also declined versus the greenback after an
increase in consumer prices in January fell short of analyst
estimates and unemployment increased more than forecast.  The krona depreciated 0.3 percent to 8.7376 per euro and
slid 0.4 percent to 6.4403 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  