-- 
Hyundais From South Korea Form Backdrop for Lobbyists Seeking Trade Deal

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-02-17T23:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-17/hyundai-cars-from-south-korea-used-to-press-for-free-trade-deal.html
  Hyundai Motor Co . cars being
unloaded at  Philadelphia’s port  became props as U.S. business
lobbyists and the South Korean government pushed for approval of
a free-trade deal.  When President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders
discuss the agreement, renegotiated in December and set to be
submitted to Congress in the coming weeks, they cite increases
in U.S. exports to Korea. In Philadelphia, the South Korean-made
cars are unloaded from South Korean-made cargo ships by South
Korean-made cranes.  “This isn’t a story we have told well,” Tami Overby, vice
president for  Asia  at the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  in
Washington, said yesterday of the scene intended to show that
imports are good for the American economy as well. “But America
is about freedom of choice.”  The Chamber, the largest U.S. business lobbying group,
arranged for South  Korea ’s Ambassador Han Duk Soo to visit the
Philadelphia port and meet local political leaders to make the
case for the agreement, the largest new deal to be sent to
Congress since the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994.  Hyundai, the largest South Korean automaker, agreed last
year to shift deliveries from  New York  and Baltimore to
Philadelphia, meaning 150,000 Kia Souls, Hyundai Accents and Kia
Rios are sent through the port’s  Packer Avenue Marine Terminal .
More than 1,800 were unloaded onto a port lot yesterday.  In addition, Hyundai Rotem Co., a unit of the auto company,
is shipping the chassis of rail cars to the port and then
building them out for sale to the local transit authority, Hyung Wook Kim, president of Hyundai Rotem USA, said in an interview.  Union Jobs  The imports are creating hundreds of jobs for union
longshoremen, mechanics and assembly workers, said Thomas Holt,
president of  Holt Logistics Corp. , which runs the port
operations.  Because of those jobs, the local longshoreman’s union said
it supports the free-trade agreement, which would eliminate
tariffs on trade between the nations and set rules for
investment and the protection of patents and copyrights.  “We’re on a decline in the  United States  and we’re not
creating any jobs,” Martin Mascuilli, the secretary-treasurer
of the local union that represents port workers, said in an
interview. “Maybe with this deal we’ll be able to sell more
cars in Korea. If we aren’t able to export our cars, what are we
going to do with them?”  The AFL-CIO labor federation and unions in Washington have
opposed the deal, saying it would cost U.S. jobs by increasing
pressure on companies to move operations outside the U.S. and
import more.  Lost Jobs  “The United States has lost 5 million jobs since Nafta,
and the last thing America’s middle class needs right now is
‘Son of Nafta’,” Teamsters President James Hoffa said in a
statement.  The Chamber of Commerce is organizing U.S. visits by Korean
officials and business leaders as a way to highlight the
benefits of the deal and counter unhappiness among voters and
lawmakers about previous agreements, which many blame for lost
jobs and stagnant wages.  Han said he has been meeting with lawmakers as well, to
help push broad support for the deal amid a consistent
complaint: “They say, ‘Look at Nafta, that was bad; look at  China , that was bad. Why would we do this?’”  Unlike the trade deal with  Mexico  and the vote on China’s
membership into the  World Trade Organization , Korea is a more
developed nation and has a falling, not rising, trade deficit
with the U.S., he said.  “When it comes to Korea there is no word like
‘outsourcing’ or taking away jobs,” Han said. “The industries
of the two countries are quite complementary.”  Han didn’t have to make that point to Harry Cassell,
operator of the Korean-made crane at the port. As Han left a
meeting with local politicians, Cassell stopped him and shook
his hand: “I appreciate your Korean workmanship,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  