-- ‘Family Feud’ Creator RTL Sells More Show Franchises as Ads Slow
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-08-22T10:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/-family-feud-creator-rtl-sells-more-show-franchises-as-ads-slow.html
RTL Group SA, the producer behind TV
hits such as “Family Feud” and “ American Idol ,” is relying
on tweaks to proven formulas and investments in digital and pay-TV to fuel growth as Europe’s ad market stalls.  Formats like dating show “Take Me Out,” where 30 women
determine the fate of a single male contestant, and prison drama
“Wentworth” and oldies including the “Got Talent” franchise
are being adapted for new markets to expand revenue, RTL Co-Chief Executive Officer Guillaume De Posch said today.  RTL, controlled by  Germany ’s Bertelsmann SE, is seeking new
revenue sources as continent’s economy continues to stagnate.
The Luxembourg-based company -- Europe’s largest broadcaster --
is investing in digital operations and pay-TV, buying majority
stakes in Broadband TV, YouTube Inc.’s fifth-largest multi-channel network, and Dutch video-on-demand provider The
Entertainment Group in recent months.  “With these acquisitions, we’ve given a particular boost
to our presence and expertise in the digital distribution
space,” de Posch said, pushing online video views to more than
15 billion this year.  First-half sales fell 1.3 percent as  Europe ’s television ad
market continues to lag. Most countries saw declines, except for
Germany, which was “kind of flat,” de Posch said.  Net income soared 53 percent to 418 million euros ($558
million) on higher operating profit, RTL said today. Revenue was
2.78 billion euros, down from 2.82 billion euros a year earlier.  The results were better than expected with revenue broadly
in line with expectations, Kepler Cheuvreux analysts said in a
note.  Game Shows  U.S. game shows such as “The Price Is Right” and “Family
Feud,” which has been on air since 1972, continue to perform
well, helping offset the advertising decline. “Family Feud”
had its best performance in 20 years and had an average audience
of 5 million views in the first half of this year. RTL’s
FremantleMedia produces the shows and is looking for so-called
bolt-on acquisitions over the next two years, de Posch said.  RTL, which debuted on the  Frankfurt  stock exchange in April
after Bertelsmann sold a 17 percent stake, owns 53 TV channels
and 28  radio stations  in 10 countries. About 60 percent of
revenue comes from advertising and its top markets are Germany
and  France .  RTL rose 3.2 percent to 70.70 euros at 12:31 p.m. in
Frankfurt. The stock also trades in Brussels, where it rose 3.1
percent to 70.65 euros.  The company will pay an extraordinary interim dividend
based on “strong cash flows” of 2.50 euros a share next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 