-- Abercrombie Falls After Profit Trails Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-22T20:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/abercrombie-falls-after-profit-trails-analysts-estimates.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  plunged the
most in more than 21 months after forecasting profit for the
current quarter that was less than analysts estimated amid
declining traffic at its stores.  The shares slid 18 percent to $38.53 at the close in New
York, for the biggest one-day drop since Nov. 3, 2011. Third-quarter profit will be as much as 45 cents a share, the company
said today in a statement, while declining to forecast earnings
beyond then. Analysts estimated $1.07, on average.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Jeffries has been struggling
to reconnect with the clothing chain’s teenage customers who
have become less enamored of Abercrombie’s fashions, half-naked
models and cacophonous stores. On top of that, consumers
concerned about the unsteady economy have been limiting
purchases of non-essential items.  “People are completely shocked at the fact that they’re
not able to give visibility, that the depths of traffic declines
in July are what they assume will continue in the third
quarter,” Stephanie Wissink, a Minneapolis-based analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos., said in an interview today. She has the
equivalent of a buy rating on the shares.  Sales at stores open at least a year and through its
websites fell 10 percent in the quarter ended Aug. 3, including
an 11 percent U.S. decline. Comparable-store sales at New
Albany, Ohio-based Abercrombie & Fitch slid 6 percent and 13
percent for Hollister. Revenue fell 0.6 percent to $945.7
million, trailing analysts’ projection of about $1 billion,
while net income slid 33 percent to $11.4 million, or 14 cents a
share.  Profit excluding some items was 16 cents a share. The
average of 29 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 29
cents.  ‘Continued Softness’  “The second quarter was more difficult than expected due
to weaker traffic and continued softness in the female business,
consistent with what others have reported,” Jeffries said in
the statement. “In that context we are planning sales,
inventory and expenses conservatively for the remainder of the
year.”  Retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  have
reported results that trailed expectations for their most recent
quarters. Macy’s last week posted its first sales drop since
2010 and its profit trailed analysts’ estimates for the first
time since 2007. Wal-Mart said last week that earnings for the
rest of the year would be less than it previously expected as
consumers were hesitant to make discretionary purchases.  Youthful Styles  After taking the helm in 1992, Jeffries turned a chain that
originally made safari and camping gear for the likes of
Theodore Roosevelt and Ernest Hemingway into a teen emporium
where sex met Ivy League. He used Abercrombie’s reputation for
quality to charge more for youthful styles, recruiting all-American teens and college-aged kids to model and work as
salesmen.  Risqué quarterly catalogs enraged religious groups. In
1999, the boy band LFO paid homage with its top-10 song “Summer
Girls,” which included the lyrics: “I like girls that wear
Abercrombie & Fitch / I’d take her if I had one wish.”  The Jeffries formula worked from 1995 into 2008, when the
company boosted sales more than 20-fold and net income more than
56-fold. Then the world changed. The downturn made it hard for
Abercrombie, long an aspirational brand, to keep selling $70
jeans when similar styles could be purchased elsewhere for $40,
and Abercrombie’s customers began moving on.  “We are not satisfied by our results and are working hard
to improve our trends for the third quarter and beyond,”
Jeffries said on the company’s earnings conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  