-- Ahold Hints at More Capital Returns as Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-22T07:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ahold-posts-second-quarter-operating-income-that-beats-estimates.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of
U.S. grocery chain Stop & Shop, posted second-quarter earnings
that beat  estimates  and hinted at the possibility of more
buybacks or acquisitions.  The  shares  rose as much as 5 percent, the steepest intraday
advance since Feb. 11, after the Amsterdam-based retailer said
underlying operating income gained 5.4 percent to 338 million
euros ($451 million) at constant exchange rates. That beat the
323.8 million-euro average estimate of 10 analysts as growth in
the Netherlands helped offset sluggish demand in the U.S.  Ahold said it remains committed to an efficient capital
structure and will make a further announcement about the matter
this year. The grocer is conducting a 2 billion-euro  buyback 
that’s due to be completed by the end of next year, after
selling a stake in Swedish retailer ICA to focus on businesses
that it controls. It has also said it will continue to look at
acquisitions to expand in neighboring markets.  “We continue to view Ahold as a well-managed company with
relatively high earnings visibility,” Jaime Vazquez, an analyst
at JPMorgan Cazenove, wrote in a report today as he raised his
recommendation on the stock to overweight from neutral.  The shares were up 4.2 percent at 12.74 euros at 9:34 a.m.,
 leading gains  in the Dutch benchmark AEX Index.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  is “very pleased” with
the development of Internet retailer Bol.com, he said today.  Pick-Up Points  Ahold is adding pick-up points for shoppers to collect
ordered groceries and items ordered from Bol.com. The pick-up
points are “very successful,” Boer told reporters.  So-called identical  sales  in the Netherlands increased 1.6
percent, matching the median estimate of 11 analysts. Underlying
operating margin in the country widened to 5.5 percent of sales
from 5.1 percent a year earlier amid cost-saving measures.  Identical sales in the U.S. trailed estimates, gaining 0.3
percent, excluding gasoline, compared with the median prediction
of 1 percent. That was slower than gains of 2.2 percent in last
year’s second quarter and 1.9 percent in the first quarter.  The northeast of the U.S. “has been less hit by the
economic downturn,” Boer said. The CEO said he doesn’t see any
change to the low level of inflation and pressure on volume for
the rest of the year. The company is “comfortable” with its
position in the U.S., Boer also said.  “We remain cautious in our outlook for the balance of the
year, as we expect customers to be focused on value and volumes
to remain under pressure,” Boer said in the statement.  Profit Margin  Net income slid 17 percent to 206 million euros, Ahold
said. That missed the 209 million-euro average estimate of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The underlying  operating margin  widened to 4.4 percent of
sales from 4.2 percent in the year-earlier period.  Ahold is among potential bidders for Great Atlantic and
Pacific Tea Co., the supermarket known as A&P that is seeking to
sell itself for as much as $1 billion after emerging from
bankruptcy, The Wall Street Journal reported July 25, citing a
person familiar with the matter. Other potential bidders include
Kroger Co. and Cerberus Capital Management LP, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  