-- Amgen Said to Push for Lower Onyx Price Amid Data Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-08-23T13:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/amgen-said-to-push-for-lower-onyx-price-amid-data-dispute-1-.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  is pushing to pay less
than the $130 a share it offered this month for  Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  after failing to obtain requested clinical
trial data, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Onyx refused to give Amgen additional data on blood-cancer
treatment Kyprolis, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. Amgen wanted the
information to more accurately value the drug, people familiar
with the situation said last week. Onyx doesn’t want to
relinquish the data in part because they pertain to individual
patients, one person said.  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen, the world’s biggest
biotechnology company by sales, hasn’t put a new  offer  on the
table and is considering its next move, said the people. Onyx,
based in South San Francisco,  California , doesn’t have access to
the data Amgen wants, from a study designed for European
approval, because the trial is ongoing, a person familiar with
the matter said last week.  Onyx didn’t want to attempt to gain access to the
information because that could disrupt the approval process for
the drug and delay its release, according to that person. The
company has at least one other suitor, British pharmaceuticals
maker  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , doing due diligence, that person said. So
far, there is no rival bid, one of the people with knowledge of
the talks said.  Onyx fell less than 1 percent to $116.79 at 9:40 a.m. New
York time, while Amgen declined less than 1 percent to $105.42.  Onyx’s Data  Onyx has given aggregated patient data to all suitors who
signed non-disclosure agreements to do due diligence, that
person said.  Representatives for Onyx, Amgen and AstraZeneca declined to
comment. Onyx shares rose less than 1 percent to $117.59
yesterday in  New York .  Kyprolis was approved last year for some patients with
multiple myeloma, and may draw more than $3 billion in revenue
by 2021, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
At $130 a share, Amgen’s offer reflects a 50 percent premium
over $86.82, where Onyx’s stock traded before news of Amgen’s
first offer became public in late June.  Onyx also sells Nexavar, for liver and kidney cancer, and
Stivarga, for stomach cancer, in partnership with Germany’s
 Bayer AG. (BAYN)  The biotechnology company reported $362 million in
2012 revenue, with 80 percent coming from Nexavar and Stivarga.  Chief Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said Aug. 8 the
company is involved with several potential purchasers. Onyx
disclosed the sale process June 30, after rejecting an
unsolicited offer from Amgen for $120 a share. The company said
then that it was working with adviser  Centerview Partners .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  