-- AMR, US Airways Seeking Trial in U.S. Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-08-23T18:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/amr-us-airways-seek-november-trial-in-u-s-antitrust-lawsuit.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  are seeking a trial of the government’s
lawsuit to block their $12.1 billion merger as early as Nov. 12,
while the  Justice Department  is pushing for a February date.  A February trial would “cause serious harm and cannot be
justified,” the airlines said in a joint filing yesterday. The
carriers and the department asked U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington  for a hearing to resolve the
dispute over timing.  “The parties’ urgency to complete their transaction is far
greater here than in ordinary merger cases,” the airlines said.
“American’s ongoing bankruptcy proceedings compound the costs
and uncertainties associated with the delays caused by the
government’s lawsuit, including approximately $500,000 in
bankruptcy-related professional fees alone every day that the
bankruptcy continues.”  The suit is an obstacle to American’s plans to exit
bankruptcy through a deal that would create the world’s biggest
airline. The government’s challenge to the transaction, which
surprised industry executives and analysts, marks a break with
the past policy. The Justice Department allowed six airlines to
merge during the past five years as they sought to cut costs and
end losses.  Hurt Competition  The planned merger, the Justice Department said in its
lawsuit filed Aug. 13, would hurt competition in the  airline
industry  and remove the incentive for  US Airways  to offer lower
prices.  “The request for a November trial date also reflects our
strong, unwavering belief in our merger with US Airways and our
legal case,” American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said
in an e-mail to employees. “It’s time to remove the uncertainty
for our customers, people and owners.”  The airlines aren’t engaged in talks to settle the lawsuit,
a person familiar with the situation said yesterday.  As the proceedings heat up, the Justice Department today
named David Gelfand, a partner at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen &
Hamilton LLP in Washington, as head of litigation for the
antitrust division.  Gelfand has represented clients including Henkel AG,
ArcelorMittal SA and Sanofi in antitrust litigation, according
to the firm’s website. He was also the lawyer for Google Inc. in
dealing with regulators on it its acquisitions of AdMob Inc. and
DoubleClick Inc. and was involved in transactions including
Hertz Global Holdings Inc.’s purchase of Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc., and Molson Coors Brewing Co.’s merger
with SABMiller Plc, according to his firm biography.  Successful Litigation  Gelfand, 54, will replace  Joseph Wayland , who stepped down
in November after two years at the division. Wayland led the
department’s successful litigation to stop AT&T Inc.’s takeover
of  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  and H&R Block Inc.’s attempt to buy a
smaller competitor, acting as the government’s lead courtroom
lawyer in both cases.  Kollar-Kotelly set a hearing Aug. 30 to address the trial
schedule and asked both sides to file a joint report by Aug. 28.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said by e-mail that “the timing proposed by the department is typical in
a merger transaction of this magnitude, which affects so many
consumers.”  First Notice  In their filing, the airlines said US Airways first
notified the Justice Department of a possible merger with
American in May 2012, giving the government sufficient time to
investigate the deal.  The  Allied Pilots Association , the Transport Union of
America and two associations representing flight attendants
filed a brief today with Kollar-Kotelly supporting the airlines’
position for a November trial.  The airlines announced their plans in February and
initially said they expected to complete the transaction in the
third quarter.  “This merger is the foundation of American’s plan to exit
 bankruptcy ,” the airlines said in yesterday’s filing.  Jack Butler , an attorney for the creditors’ committee in
American’s bankruptcy, said the Justice Department’s proposal
for a trial next year “seems to me to be a strategy to try to
kill the merger by fiat instead of them having to prove their
case.”  “From the creditors’ perspective, we thought from the
beginning they got it wrong,” he said.  Trial History  The airlines, seeking a 10-day trial, provided Kollar-Kotelly with a list of all government merger challenges that
went to trial since 2000. Almost all of the 16 cases brought by
the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission were
tried within 81 days of the complaint’s filing, according to the
list.  The longest wait was 106 days in the department’s lawsuit
to block a proposed transaction involving  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ,
according to the filing.  A Nov. 12 trial would be 91 days since the government sued
the airlines.  Talamona said the Justice Department’s proposed schedule is
similar to the one set by the court in the government’s 2011
lawsuit to block AT&T Inc.’s acquisition of T-Mobile US Inc.  AT&T abandoned the deal before the trial was held.  Bill Baer, the head of the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, said during a news conference on Aug. 13 after the
complaint was filed that the government is “always prepared”
to hold settlement talks. He said the department hasn’t mapped
out any potential remedies that could salvage the deal.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).
The bankruptcy case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  