-- Tanaka Plans Silver Saving Account for Japan as Prices Rebound
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-08-22T03:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/tanaka-plans-silver-saving-account-for-japan-as-prices-rebound.html
Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K.,  Japan ’s
biggest gold retailer, will add silver to its online trading
products for individual investors as prices trade near a three-month high.  Tanaka will offer accounts that require saving a minimum of
3,000 yen ($31) a month to trade silver, said Naoto Mizuki, a
marketing executive at parent Tanaka Holdings Co. Clients will
be able to sell the metal via the Internet or take physical
delivery, Mizuki said yesterday. Applications will open Sept. 2
and trading will begin in November.  Silver, about half of which is consumed by industry to make
everything from solar panels to batteries, rebounded 25 percent
since reaching the lowest in almost three years in June as
improving economic climate boosted demand outlook. The metal
entered a  bear market  in April as investors lost faith in
precious metals as a store of value and amid concern the  Federal
Reserve  would taper stimulus.  “Silver is cheaper than gold and platinum and it can be
bought with less money,” said Kate Harada, general manager at
Tanaka Kikinzoku’s precious metals team. “Individual investors
have been searching for a tool to hedge their yen-based
assets.”  Silver lost 25 percent this year, making it the worst
performer after corn in Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
 commodities . Metal for immediate delivery was little changed at
$22.8595 an ounce at 12 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yen has depreciated
12 percent this year against the dollar as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe boosted monetary stimulus to spur growth.  Japan may add the most solar capacity in the world this
year, according to estimates by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Solar panels accounted for 6.9 percent of the industrial demand
for silver in 2011, according to CPM Group Inc.  Tanaka introduced similar products for gold in 1980 and for
platinum in 1985.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  