-- Angola Urges Diversification Amid Stable Oil Prices
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-08-22T09:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/angola-urges-diversification-amid-stable-oil-prices.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s largest oil
producer after Nigeria, needs to cut its reliance on crude to
buffer the economy as prices for the commodity are set to remain
stable over the next three years, a central bank official said.  The economy is forecast to expand 6.5 percent this year and
between 7 percent and 8 percent in 2014, while oil trades at
about $106 a barrel, Antonio Andre Lopes, a vice-governor of the
Banco Nacional de Angola, said yesterday in an interview at his
office in Luanda, the capital. Crude oil makes up 97 percent of
the country’s exports and 80 percent of tax revenue.  “The price of oil is a big threat so we need to diversify
the economy to mitigate this,” Lopes said. “However, the
economy is getting better and I think the oil price will be
stable.”  The government is seeking to increase lending from banks to
businesses in industries including construction, mining and
agriculture as the southwest African country recovers from a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002. The economy is dominated by
oil companies such as  Total SA (FP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , which
helped Angola pump 1.76 million barrels of oil a day in July
from offshore fields.  Angola’s $116 billion economy is forecast by the World Bank
to expand 7.2 percent this year. Crude oil has gained 12 percent
in New York in the past six months and was trading as high as
$104.72 a barrel today.  Lopes said the Ministry of Finance and the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee are considering the timing of a
Eurobond sale, while also evaluating other methods of raising
foreign debt to finance a budget deficit that’s forecast to
reach 3.4 percent of gross domestic product this year.  VTB Talks  VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-biggest bank, is also seeking to
conclude a transaction with the Angolan government similar to
the $1 billion line of credit issued a year ago, Igor Skvortsov,
chairman of the bank’s African operations, said in an interview
in Luanda yesterday.  The planned $1 billion Eurobond is unlikely to be sold this
year because “too much needs to be organized and it’s nearly
September,” Pedro Coelho, chief executive officer of  Standard
Bank (STAN)  Group Ltd.’s Angolan unit, said in an Aug. 20 interview in
Luanda.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 10 percent for six consecutive months as price
pressures eased. The  inflation  rate, which fell to 9 percent in
July to meet the government’s target for this year, may decline
to 7 percent in the next three to four years, Lopes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  