-- Marvell, Dark Horse, Portland Loo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/marvell-dark-horse-portland-loo-intellectual-property.html
Marvell Semiconductor Inc., a Santa
Clara, California-based maker of semiconductors, prevailed in a
patent-infringement case brought by a  Texas  patent holder.  A jury in federal court in Marshall, Texas, found that
Marvell didn’t infringe either of the two patents that were at
issue in the case, according to an Aug. 16 court filing.  Lake Cherokee Hard Drive Technologies Inc. filed suit in
June 2010 against Marvell and seven other makers of computer
chips. They were accused of infringing patents 5,978,162, issued
in November 1999, and 5,844,728, issued in December 1998.  Both patents had previously belonged to  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS) 
and then  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  before being acquired by Lake Cherokee
in February 2010, according to the database of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office.  Marvell was the only remaining defendant in the suit.  The case is Lake Cherokee Hard Drive Technologies LLC v.
Marvel Semiconductor Inc., 2:10-cv-00216-JRG, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dark Horse Brewery Sues Kansas Distillery Over Trademark  Dark Horse Distillery LLC, a Kansas-based maker of vodka,
Bourbon and rye whiskey, was sued for trademark infringement by
a Michigan brewery.  Mor-Dall Enterprises Inc., which does business as  Dark
Horse Brewing Co. , objects to the distillery’s name. According
to the complaint filed yesterday in a Michigan federal court,
Dark Horse Brewing has done business since 1997.  The Marshall, Michigan-based company said it is presently
involved in proceedings at the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
in opposition to two pending trademark applications filed by the
distillery.  It said that despite the fact it had been in discussion
with the distillery in October and November over the “Dark
Horse” trademark application, the distillery filed additional
applications in December and March, all of which contained
“Dark Horse” in the name.  The public is likely to be confused by the two companies’
name similarities, the brewery claimed.  The brewery asked the court to order the patent office to
reject the distillery’s pending applications, and to order the
Shawnee, Kansas-based company not to use any of the “Dark
Horse” marks. It also seeks awards of money damages, including
the defendant’s profits derived from its alleged infringement,
attorney feels and litigation costs.  Additionally, the brewery asked the court to order the
destruction of all products and promotional materials that
infringe or are confusingly similar to the brewery’s trademarks.  Dark Horse Distillery didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Mor-Dall Enterprises Inc. v. Dark Horse
Distillery, 1:13-cv-00915, U.S. District Court, Western District
of  Michigan .  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Romtec Sued by City of Portland Over Public Toilet Copyright  Romtec Inc., a company that produces bathroom facilities
for public spaces, was sued for copyright infringement by the
city of Portland,  Oregon .  The city claims that Roseburg, Oregon-based Romtec
infringed the copyright to a public toilet facility. According
to court papers, the city invested public funds to create,
fabricate, deploy, market and sell a distinctive public bathroom
that is known as the “Portland Loo.”  The Portland Loo is a toilet kiosk that can be placed on
city sidewalks that is handicapped accessible and can
accommodate a baby stroller or a bike for the occupant. A novel
feature of the  Portland  loo is the use of louvered slats that
permit natural surveillance by those outside the facility. The
louvers extend from knee level to foot level and just above head
level to the ceiling, “making activity inside somewhat visible
to passersby,” according to the complaint.  The Portland Loo was designed by one of the former city
commissioners, who then assigned the copyright -- which was
registered in 2008 -- to the city.  The Portland Loo has become such a distinctive and popular
creation of the city that it even has  its own Facebook page . The
city has seven Portland Loos installed around Portland, has sold
them two three other municipalities, and is negotiating to sell
more to the cites of  San Diego , Esquimalt, British Columbia, and
 Seattle , according to the complaint.  Romtec’s “Sidewalk Restroom” infringes the Portland Loo
copyright, as the Romtec product is “substantially and
strikingly similar” to the Portland Loo and appears to be a
copy, the city said in its complaint.  The city also made claims under U.S. trademark law that the
two facilities were so similar that the public was likely to be
confused as to their source and believe, falsely, that an
affiliation existed between Romtec and the city.  It asked the court to bar Romtec from making and selling
products that infringe the city’s  intellectual property  rights,
and to order the seizure and destruction of any infringing
products or promotional materials.  The city also asked for awards of money damages, Romtec’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, litigation
costs and money damages.  Romtec didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is City of Portland v. Romtec Inc., 3:13-cv-01453-MO, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Intel Creates Hadoop-Based Tool to Foil Industrial Espionage  Intel Corp. (INTC)  has created a software based tool to detect
possible industrial espionage, the Register technology-news
website  reported .  The tool, which uses the  Apache Hadoop  open-source software
framework and looks at the 4 billion to 6 billion daily network
events that occur in the company, was created by a team of about
80 working from Intel’s offices in  Israel , according to the
Register.  The tool analyzes every access request by every employee,
the Register reported.  Santa Clara , California-based Intel told the Register that
it may release the software’s code and design to its McAfee unit
to be converted into a commercial product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 