-- Asian Stocks Drop as Fed Minutes Signal Tapering Support
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-08-22T11:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/asian-stocks-fall-as-fed-minutes-signal-tapering-support.html
Asian  stocks  fell, almost wiping out
this year’s gains, as the regional equity benchmark posted its
longest losing streak since November after Federal Reserve
minutes signaled broad support for stimulus cuts.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , a Japanese carmaker that gets 30 percent
of its revenue in North America, slumped 2.3 percent. SM
Investments Corp., owner of the Philippine’s biggest shopping-mall operator, tumbled 8.9 percent in  Manila  as the nation’s
stock market reopened after a three-day closure.  Brambles Ltd. (BXB) ,
an Australian container maker, slid 5.2 percent after its profit
missed estimates. China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s top
coal miner by market value, rose 2.3 percent in Hong Kong on
data showing mainland manufacturing unexpectedly expanded.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.8 percent to 129.55
at 8:13 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring its gain so far this year to 0.1
percent. All but one of the measure’s 10 industry groups fell.
The index pared losses as German manufacturing grew at a faster-than-expected pace, adding to optimism of global recovery
following China’s data.  “It seems there’s obviously unanimous, broader support for
tapering and it seems the prospect of tapering sooner rather
than later is a good excuse for markets to have a correction,”
 Don Williams , chief investment officer at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney, which manages about $1.2 billion,
said by telephone. “The market is correcting and that might
continue for some time.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes released yesterday from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s July meeting showed officials were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start
reducing bond buying this year if the economy improves, with a
few saying tapering might be needed soon.  The Asia-Pacific gauge has erased almost all this year’s
gains, lagging a 15 percent surge in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index as growth slows in China and speculation that the Fed will
curb stimulus spurred investors to sell assets across Asia and
 emerging markets .  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  slid 0.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index
dropped 1 percent, with volume 30 percent above its 30-day
intraday average. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.5
percent, while New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index also lost 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.4 percent, and
China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.3 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex dropped 0.2 percent, and Singapore’s Straits Times Index
fell 0.6 percent.  September Paring  U.S. policy makers will probably pare $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases at the FOMC’s Sept. 17-18 meeting,
according to 65 percent of 48 economists surveyed this month by
Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent today. The S&P 500
fell 0.6 percent in  New York  yesterday to close at the lowest
level since July 8.  Mazda slid 2.3 percent to 390 yen in Tokyo, while Sony
Corp., an electronics maker that gets about two-thirds of sales
overseas, declined 1.6 percent to 1,906 yen. James Hardie
Industries SE, a building-materials supplier that counts the
U.S. as its biggest market, retreated 2.2 percent to A$9.68 in
Sydney.  Tepco Leak  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the operator of the Fukushima
nuclear facility, slumped 4.1 percent to 534 yen, extending
losses this week after Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority
yesterday said a radioactive water leak at its stricken plant is
a “serious incident” rated three on the seven-level
International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale. The company
said it needs overseas expertise to contain the disaster.  Brambles slumped 5.2 percent to A$8.70 in Sydney after the
company said its profit for the year ended June 30 was A$640.6
million ($576 million), missing analyst estimates.  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , a producer of the ore, tumbled 10 percent
to 83.5 Australian cents after its full-year underlying income
of A$13.7 million missed analyst estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, sank
1 percent to A$35.37 in Sydney, extending its steepest two-day
decline since June. Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest miner,
retreated 0.9 percent to A$59.04 after the London Metal Exchange
Index dropped 1.2 percent yesterday.  SM Investments tumbled 8.9 percent to 725 pesos in Manila.
The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  tumbled 6 percent, the
worst-performing among major Asian emerging-market indexes. The
country’s stock exchange has been closed and trading of
currencies and government bonds was halted this week because of
floods in Manila and a public holiday yesterday.  China Manufacturing  A Chinese manufacturing index rose in August from an 11-month low, adding to signs the world’s second-biggest economy is
stabilizing. The preliminary reading of 50.1 for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compares with a final figure of 47.7 in July and the
48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16
economists. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  China Shenhua Energy gained 2.3 percent to HK$24.15 in  Hong
Kong . China Coal Energy Co., the country’s second-largest
producer of the fuel, advanced 4.7 percent to HK$4.90. PT Adaro
Energy Tbk, a coal miner, surged 18 percent to 850 rupiah in
Jakarta.  Among other stocks that rose,  Toyo Suisan Kaisha Ltd. (2875) , an
instant noodle maker, gained 3.1 percent to 3,070 yen in Tokyo
after SMBC Nikko raised its rating to outperform from
underperform.  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , Australia’s largest electricity
retailer, jumped 5.8 percent to A$12.98 in Sydney after
obtaining A$7.4 billion in bank loans to refinance debt and
bolster funding after a liquefied natural gas project begins.  Emerging Markets  Emerging market stocks were roiled this week amid concern
capital outflows will accelerate. Nations from Brazil to
 Indonesia  have raised borrowing costs in 2013 to try to aid
their currencies as the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary
stimulus curbs demand for assets in developing nations.
Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index fell 1.1 percent today,
taking its loss this week to 9 percent.  “You can argue that the fact that they are tapering is a
good new story as they’re getting more and more confident about
the healthy  U.S. economy  and positive globally as well,” said
Platypus Asset’s Williams. “It’s a positive thing for markets
that less stimulus is required but we have a transition phase
here and markets are going to be choppy while everyone gets used
to the idea of a different environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  