-- Treasuries, U.S. Stocks Climb on Home Data; Gold Rallies
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-08-23T20:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/asian-futures-advance-as-dollar-holds-gains-copper-rises.html
Treasuries and U.S. stocks rose as a
report showing a plunge in home sales eased concern the  Federal
Reserve  will cut stimulus efforts next month. Gold and oil
rallied while the dollar weakened. Emerging-market equities
gained for the first time in seven days.  The 10-year Treasury yield dropped seven basis points to
2.82 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , after reaching a two-year
high yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent
for the first back-to-back advance in three weeks. The MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index climbed 1.4 percent, trimming this week’s
loss to 2.4 percent as currencies from  India ’s rupee to  Brazil ’s
real strengthened. Gold rallied 1.8 percent. The Bloomberg U.S.
Dollar Index fell for the first time in three days.  Fed officials met today at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , to discuss monetary policy. Purchases of new U.S. homes
plunged in July by the most in more than three years, a sign
that growth in the industry may be taking a pause as mortgage
rates rise. Countries from India to Indonesia signaled they will
take steps to support financial markets and Brazil announced a
$60 billion intervention program involving currency swaps and
loans.  “The new home-sales data tells us that all is not well
with the economy, and the Fed needs to continue to support
growth,” Tom Power, a senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien &
Associates in  Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The
housing recovery is an important thing that the Fed will be
looking at when it makes its decision on the timing of the
tapering.”  Home Sales  U.S. sales of newly built homes declined 13 percent to a
394,000 annualized pace, the weakest since October, following a
455,000 rate in the prior period that was lower than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a decrease to 487,000. Last month’s decline
was the biggest since May 2010.  “The fact that there are rising interest rates looks like
it may be starting to bite into new home sales,” Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $180 billion, said in a phone
interview. “That’s probably going to cause the economy be a
little softer in the second half.”  Benchmark 10-year yields had touched the highest level
since July 2011 after Fed minutes released this week showed most
officials are comfortable with a plan to start reducing bond
purchases if the economy improves.  September Move  Three Fed regional bank presidents, speaking in interviews
today at Jackson Hole, differed over the timing for reducing the
Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying, with one backing a
tapering next month if the economy remains strong and two others
saying policy makers should take time to assess economic data.  “We can take our time” on slowing purchases, St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard , who holds a vote on policy this
year, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview from Jackson Hole. San
Francisco’s  John Williams  told CNBC he wants to “taper our
purchases later this year” if the economy doesn’t flag, while
Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  said he “would be supportive” of
slowing purchases next month if the expansion holds up.  Microsoft Inc. rallied 7.3 percent today after Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said he would retire within 12
months. PulteGroup Inc. sank 1.6 percent to pace declines in an
 index  of homebuilder stocks.  Trading Halt  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. rose 1.2 percent after the shares
slid the most in more than four months following a trading
disruption yesterday. Nasdaq halted trading of its listed stocks
for three hours yesterday because a computer problem left some
investors without quotes and the company did not want to have
“information asymmetry,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert
Greifeld  said in interviews today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, dropped 5.3 percent to 13.98. The equity volatility gauge
has fallen 2.7 percent in the past five days, halting two
consecutive weeks of advances.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.4 percent, trimming
its decline for the week to 0.5 percent. An index of household
confidence in the  euro zone  improved for a ninth month to the
highest level since July 2011, the European Commission in
Brussels said in a preliminary report. U.K. gross domestic
product increased 0.7 percent in the second quarter from the
previous period, when it rose 0.3 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London.  A gauge of European oil and gas stocks  rose  the most,
advancing 1.2 percent. Glencore Xstrata Plc and Rio Tinto Group
led gains in mining companies.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI gauge of shares from 21  developing countries 
rebounded as its worst week in two months drove shares to a six-week low. About $1.5 trillion has been erased from the value of
emerging-market equities since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
on May 22 policy makers could scale back bond buying.  Benchmark equity gauges in India, Brazil and  South Korea 
gained more than 1 percent. The rupee jumped 2 percent against
the dollar, the real gained 3.4 percent. The  Thai baht  and the
Malaysian ringgit strengthened, rebounding from three-year lows.  “Emerging markets should remain very volatile for the
remainder of this year as governments try to restore investor
confidence and stem capital outflows,” Vana Bulbon, chief
executive officer at UOB Asset Management (Thailand) Co. Ltd.,
which manages about $6.4 billion, said in Bangkok. “The global
outlook has been improving led by growth in the U.S, while
economies in Europe and China have bottomed out.”  Government Securities  The 10-year Treasury yield fell seven basis points to 2.82
percent. The yield climbed to 2.93 percent yesterday, the
highest since July 2011.  Treasuries due in 10 years and longer are the worst
performing  government securities  in the Group of Seven this
month, tumbling 3.7 percent through yesterday, before the U.S.
sells $98 billion of notes and bonds next week.  Gold jumped to an 11-week high as the home-sales data
boosted speculation the Fed will maintain fiscal stimulus.
Futures for December delivery rose 1.8 percent to $1,395.80 an
ounce on the Comex in New York. Earlier, the price reached
$1,398.70, the highest since June 7. Silver climbed 3 percent to
$23.781 an ounce.  Crude futures increased 1.3 percent, the most in two weeks,
to $106.42 a barrel. Prices fell 1 percent this week.  The dollar declined 0.2 percent to $1.3382 per euro,
erasing an earlier advance. The yen was little changed at 98.69
per dollar after touching 99.15, the weakest level since Aug. 5.
Japan’s currency dropped 0.2 percent to 132.06 per euro, having
fallen 1.6 percent this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  