-- Aussie Dollar Rallies Against Peers on China Production Recovery
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-08-22T06:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/aussie-dollar-drops-to-2-week-low-amid-emerging-market-concern.html
Australia ’s dollar rallied against
most of its 16 major peers after a private report showed  China ’s
manufacturing expanded for the first time in four months,
boosting trade prospects.  The currency extended a gain to a third day against its New
Zealand counterpart to reach a two-week high. Australia’s 10-year bond yields climbed to the most in more than a year
following advances by U.S. Treasury yields after minutes of the
 Federal Reserve ’s July meeting showed policy makers were
“broadly comfortable” with a plan to curtail bond purchases.  “China’s manufacturing data was well received, spurring a
gain in the Aussie,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “Having said
that, there is still an overhang from the prospect of Fed
tapering, so investors are hesitant to chase the Aussie rallies
too aggressively.”  Australia’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 89.87 U.S. cents
at 4:42 p.m. in Sydney after falling 2.4 percent in the previous
three sessions. The Aussie added 0.2 percent to NZ$1.1456 after
touching NZ$1.1483, the highest since Aug. 5. New Zealand’s
dollar was little changed at 78.43 U.S. cents.  In China, a preliminary reading on the  Purchasing Managers’
Index (EC11FLAS)  of manufacturing rose to 50.1 in August from 47.7 in July,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. That exceeded
the 48.2 predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Emerging Markets  The Aussie touched 89.32 earlier today, the weakest since
Aug. 7, amid concern paring of Fed stimulus will cause funds to
flow out of higher-yielding assets.  Brazil ’s real has led slumps
in emerging-market currencies in the past month with a 9 percent
drop, followed by the currencies of India and  Indonesia .  “Historically, there has been a high correlation between
emerging-market currencies and the Aussie dollar,” said Ray Attrill, the global co-head of currency strategy at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. Australia “digs up stuff and
sells it to  emerging markets  -- that’s what Australia does best,
so it makes sense that the fortunes of the currency should
reside with the prospects for emerging-market growth.”  An index of Australian leading economic indicators fell 0.2
percent in June after a holding steady in May, according to a
report from the New York-based Conference Board today.  Rate Bets  There is a 54 percent chance that the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will reduce benchmark borrowing costs again this year
from a record 2.5 percent, according to data on overnight-index
swaps compiled by Bloomberg. Shorter-dated notes are supported
by the prospects for a rate cut and slowing domestic growth,
while longer-maturity securities have been sold off along with
 U.S. Treasuries , steepening the so-called yield curve.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond jumped to
4.12 percent, the highest since April 2012, from 3.98 percent
yesterday. The  difference  between 3-year and 10-year debt yields
widened to as much as 1.28 percentage points, the most since
June 2009.  “RBA easing bias intact, earnings season soft, nothing to
taper,”  Robert Mead , the Sydney-based  money manager  for Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, posted on Twitter. “Roll down steepest Aussie yield curve
since 2009.”  As a bond nears maturity or “rolls down” the yield curve,
it is valued at successively lower yields and higher prices.
Using the strategy, the security is held for a period of time as
it rises in price and is sold to realize the gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  