-- Lazard Capital Hires Peter Santry to Head Fixed-Income Trading
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-08-22T17:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/lazard-capital-hires-peter-santry-to-head-fixed-income-trading.html
Lazard Capital Markets LLC, the
closely held brokerage controlled by current and former  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  employees, hired Peter Santry as global head of fixed-income trading as it expands in credit.  Santry, 54, previously served as head of distressed trading
at Jefferies Group LLC. Scott Sunshine, an outside spokesman for
the firm at Water & Wall Group, confirmed the hire. Santry
reports to Tim Grell, head of global fixed income at Lazard
Capital.  The firm is seeking to build its debt business as trading
in leveraged loans in the U.S. rose to $150 billion in the
second quarter from about $120 billion the previous three
months, according to the Loan Syndications and Trading
Association. Non-bank lenders bought $298.4 billion of the
senior ranking debt in the first seven months of the year,
surpassing all of 2012.  Loan trading volume for par, or performing credits, rose to
$144 billion in the second quarter, compared with $114.5 billion
during the first three months, according to an LSTA report.
Distressed trading volume rose to $6.1 billion compared with
$5.2 billion during the first quarter.  Eighty-six percent of loan trades in the second quarter
were at a price above 98 cents on the dollar, compared with 65
percent during the same period in 2012, according to the LSTA
report.  The majority of the loans issued have been used to
refinance debt and cut borrowing costs. Speculative-grade
borrowers obtained $157 billion of loans to refinance during the
first seven months of this year, while reducing the rate on
$187.7 billion of existing debt, according to Standard & Poor’s
Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Santry, who is based in  New York , spent 14 years at Bank of
America Corp. where he was head of the global special situations
group. He joined Chapdelaine & Co. in 2009 to lead a loan and
distressed-debt trading group. He started at Jefferies in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  