-- Haze Blankets Hong Kong as Pollution Hits Very High Level
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-22T07:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/haze-blankets-hong-kong-as-air-pollution-hits-very-high-level.html
Hong Kong’s air pollution index
reached “very high” levels today as a tropical storm that
passed through  Taiwan  trapped pollutants and blanketed the city
in haze, triggering a government health warning.  The index was 153 at roadside-monitoring stations in the
Central business district, nearing the  highest in more than four
months , as of 3:00 p.m. The reading was 159 in the commercial
district  Causeway Bay  and 152 in  Mong Kok . A reading of more
than 100 triggers a government warning for people with heart or
respiratory illness to avoid prolonged stays in heavy-traffic
areas.  Severe Tropical Storm Trami is heading toward southeastern
 China  after unleashing rain in Taiwan, leading to still air in
parts of the Pearl River region. Leung Chun-ying, who took over
as Hong Kong’s leader last July, has made cleaning up the city’s
skies a priority with air quality worsening since 2007.  “Because of the typhoon, we don’t have any wind, the air
now is like static, pollutants accumulate and they can’t get
out,” Kwong Sum-yin, chief executive officer at Clean Air
Network, a non-profit advocacy group, said by phone today.
“Central is pretty bad, exactly because we have so many
skyscrapers.”  The former British colony, which will raise its  air quality 
standards, has never met its targets since they were adopted 26
years ago, according to a government audit in November. Hong
Kong relies on the wind to help sweep away choking emissions
from Chinese factories and vehicles.  “The high air pollution incident is a result of the
trapping of local pollutants, in particular nitrogen dioxide, in
the territory under the light wind,” the Environmental
Protection Department said in an e-mailed statement today. The
air quality will improve gradually today as the wind picks up,
it said, citing the city’s observatory.  Subsidies  The department also said most pollutants, except ozone and
roadside nitrogen dioxide, have dropped in recent years. The
government is seeking to further cut local emissions, especially
those from vehicles, it said.  “We do consider it a challenge to Hong Kong’s
competitiveness,” Richard Vuylsteke, president of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, said by phone today. “People
that the companies try to hire to come here - like people with
asthma or their children with asthma problems - will finally
find they would prefer to go to  Singapore  or some place else to
work.”  The government said it will offer HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) in subsidies to replace old diesel vehicles and limit
their life-span to battle smog that’s responsible for more than
1,600 premature deaths in the first half of the year. The
Chinese city is also seeking to enact legislation that will
mandate ships berthing at its ports to switch to cleaner fuel
over the next two years.  Still, the government needs to take more and faster action
to eliminate buses and trucks that don’t meet environmental
standard, said Jens-Erik Olsen, chairman of the European Chamber
of Commerce in Hong Kong.  “The polluters are the trucks and the buses,” Olsen said
today by phone. “We have asked the government to take immediate
action on roadside pollution in  Hong Kong  for years. It is a
disgrace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  