-- Bafin Puts Onus on Banks to Get IT, Clients Fit for Sepa
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-22T14:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/bafin-puts-onus-on-banks-to-get-it-clients-fit-for-sepa.html
German financial regulator Bafin
said banks must ensure their technology systems and customers
are ready to implement the new payments standard being
introduced from Feb. 1.  While banks themselves are ready for the Single Euro
Payments Area,  information technology  has yet to be adapted, and
financial institutions aren’t sufficiently aware of their
clients’ ability to make the switch on time, Bonn-based Bafin
said in an e-mailed statement today. The regulator outlined the
conclusions of a study conducted in July to assess the
situation.  “Customers can already rely on their banks to make SEPA-payments now,” Bafin said. Since 93 percent of financial-services companies depend on external providers to execute
payments, the onus is on them to make sure the technology can
cope with potential disruptions and backlogs, it said.  Electronic payment transfers in euro, including the direct-debit type favored in  Germany , will follow the common technical
standard under new rules adopted by the 28 countries in the
European Union as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein,  Norway ,  Monaco 
and  Switzerland .  German banks estimate that only one-third of corporate
customers are prepared for the new standards, with small
organizations especially lacking information, according to
Bafin’s report. Less than 1 percent of direct debit transactions
used the new standards at the time of the study, Bafin said.  The regulator surveyed all 1,783 financial-service
providers in Germany.  German companies risk clogging payment transactions if they
don’t adapt to new transfer standards on time, Bundesbank board
member Carl-Ludwig Thiele said in an Aug. 14 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  