-- Baidu Advances as Output Boosts Yanzhou: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-22T20:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/baidu-advances-as-output-boosts-yanzhou-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  advanced the most
in a week in New York, led by  Yanzhou (YZC)  Coal Mining Co. and  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , after a preliminary gauge indicated manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded in Asia’s biggest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.6 percent to 96.8
yesterday. Yanzhou,  China ’s fourth-largest coal mining company,
jumped 8 percent to trade at the widest premium over its Hong
Kong stock in two weeks. Baidu, owner of China’s largest search
engine, rose the most in a week after saying it’s expanding with
mobile applications that don’t need to be downloaded.  Noah
Holdings Ltd. (NOAH)  fell the most in two months.  China’s manufacturing  resumed its expansion this month
after shrinking the most in about a year in July. A preliminary
purchasing managers index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 50.1 from 47.7, beating all 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The growth sent West Texas Intermediate
crude and copper futures higher in New York yesterday.  “The situation has stabilized thanks to a few bright spots
in the economy,” Elena Ogram, who holds Chinese stocks in her
$50 million emerging-market portfolio at Bank Bellevue AG, said
by e-mail from Zurich yesterday. “It led to restocking in raw
materials sectors and hence prices have been rising.”  Computer errors halted trading for three hours on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, two days after options markets were roiled
by mistaken trades sent by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The iShares
China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese  exchange-traded fund  in
the U.S., jumped 2.7 percent to $35.79, rising for the first
time in four days. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9
percent on data showing improvement in global manufacturing and
the American labor market.  Yanzhou Premium  Yanzhou Coal’s American depositary receipts surged to a
two-month high of $8.93. Its ADRs, each representing 10
underlying shares in the Shandong-based company, traded 1.4
percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, the biggest premium since
Aug. 8. The rally helped reduce Yanzhou’s decline this year to
48 percent.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal, known as Chalco, climbed 4.6 percent to $8.71,
rising the most in a week. Chalco has slumped 27 percent so far
this year.  “People are viewing rebounding commodity prices and import
data as signs that the overall economic activity is improving,”
Bellevue’s Ogram said. “Some commodity names were oversold.”  Baidu, owner of China’s most-used search engine, added 2.6
percent to a seven-day high of $139.54 in New York.  ‘Lite Apps’  Mobile users can access so called “lite apps” for
transportation, travel and entertainment information through the
company’s search program on smartphones, Baidu’s vice president
Li Mingyuan said at a conference in Beijing yesterday. The
company’s application store has had 69 million downloads every
day as its open platform attracts 700,000 developers, Chairman
Robin Li said.  The new product “will bring huge commercial value to
Baidu,” 86Research Ltd. said in a note yesterday.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , an online book retailer,
gained 4.4 percent to $9.09, rising the most in a week.  Youku
Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online video website, rallied for a
fourth day, advancing 3.2 percent to $23.35.  LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB) , a Beijing-based online retailer
of lifestyle goods, tumbled 10 percent to $9.96, taking its
three-day decline to 48 percent. The company gained as much as
134 percent after its U.S. initial public offering in June.  Noah Holdings Ltd., which sells wealth-management products
for commission, tumbled 7.8 percent to $16.44, sinking the most
since June 24.  Noah’s Slide  The Shanghai-based company had surged 37 percent since Aug.
8, when it lifted its 2013 adjusted net income forecast to as
much as $55 million, 49 percent more than its May estimate. Noah
reported Aug. 21 that second-quarter profit jumped 133 percent
from a year earlier while revenue increased 132 percent.  “There’s profit taking after Noah last raised its annual
earnings estimate pushed its price up a lot,” Ella Ji, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. said by phone yesterday. “There’s
no new catalyst from the second-quarter earnings.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 1.1 percent to
9,967.77 in its first increase this week. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.3 percent to 2,067.12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  