-- Baidu Expands Mobile Search With Apps That Aren’t Downloaded
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-22T05:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/baidu-expands-mobile-search-with-apps-that-aren-t-downloaded.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s largest
search engine, is expanding with mobile applications that don’t
need to be downloaded as it competes with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
for users in the world’s biggest smartphone market.  Mobile users can access so called “lite apps” for
transportation, travel and entertainment information through
Baidu’s search program on smartphones, Li Mingyuan, a vice
president, said today in Beijing. Baidu is also offering mobile
payment services for developers to commercialize their
applications, he said.  Baidu is trying to navigate a shift from desktop computing,
where it manages 82 percent of the nation’s searches, to mobile
devices. The company last month agreed to pay $1.85 billion for
the 91 Wireless third-party app store in its biggest announced
acquisition to capture the nation’s more than 464 million users
who access the Internet from mobile devices.  “We are pushing the development of  China ’s Internet
ecosystem,” said Li Mingyuan. “We hope by promoting ‘lite’
apps to help developers integrate mobile and cloud systems.”  The company’s app store has had 69 million downloads every
day as its open platform attracts 700,000 developers, Chairman
Robin Li said at the conference.  Baidu’s mobile revenue was about 700 million yuan to 800
million yuan in the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer
Jennifer Li said in an interview on Bloomberg TV in July. The
company has a market share “well above” 50 percent in searches
from mobile devices, she said at the time.  Acquisitions  “Baidu has been relatively fast in commercializing its
mobile services,” said Lucy Zhang,  a Beijing-based analyst at
Internet consulting group IResearch. “It’s trying to build a
mobile cloud ecosystem to help developers build its more mobile
services on its platform.”  The company is still actively looking for acquisition
targets, as it expands in services such as online search and
Internet video.  Baidu reported net income of 2.64 billion  yuan  ($431
million) in the second quarter, beating analyst estimates.
Revenue rose 39 percent to 7.56 billion yuan.  Baidu boosted its workforce by 2,100 people to 24,000 by
the end of June through new hires and the purchase of PPStream
Inc. for $370 million in the June quarter.  Baidu will merge PPS with recently acquired online video
unit iQiyi.com, making the platform China’s largest online video
site by mobile user numbers and viewing time, according to an e-mailed statement from the company in May.  China’s online video business revenue is projected to
increase to 16.2 billion yuan in 2014 from 1.36 billion yuan in
2009, according to IResearch.  The number of people who accessed the Internet via mobile
devices reached 464 million at the end of December, according to
 China Internet Network Information Center ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  