-- Batista’s OGX Faces Ibovespa Removal in Proposed Index Shift
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-08-22T20:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/batista-s-ogx-faces-ibovespa-removal-in-proposed-index-overhaul.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
the oil producer founded by  Eike Batista  that has lost 82
percent of its market value this year, would be dropped from the
Ibovespa under proposed changes to the Brazilian benchmark.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  would exclude any companies whose shares
trade for less than 1 real (41 cents) as part of planned changes
in the way it determines the relative importance of individual
stocks in the index, according to a statement on the exchange
operator’s website. OGX, which has tumbled amid production
shortfalls and dwindling cash, is currently the only one on the
index below that threshold.  While OGX’s plunge this year has made it one of the ten
smallest companies on the 71-member Ibovespa, it has been
responsible for about a third of the index’s 16 percent
decline. Its impact on the gauge has been caused partly by the
exchange’s reliance on trading volume for determining the
weighting of individual stocks in addition to market value.  “The trading volume feeds on itself,” Roberto Altenhofen,
an analyst at equity consulting firm Empiricus Research, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “Some passive funds need to follow the
Ibovespa’s composition. The removal of OGX from the index, if it
really happens, would mean a total dismantling of positions.”  OGX Weighting  OGX accounts for 2.2 percent of the Ibovespa’s  weighting 
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Under the
current methodology, it would increase to 4.3 percent in
September from the current 2.1 percent, according to an Aug. 16
preview of changes.  The final decision on the changes will be announced by
September 13, according to BM&FBovespa’s statement. A committee
of exchange executives and bank and brokerage-firm officials
wrote the proposal.  “The Ibovespa is 45 years old, and the number of companies
on the market has increased so much over the years,”
BMF&Bovespa’s Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto told
reporters in Sao Paulo on Aug. 9. “The index should reflect the
diversity of sectors of the Brazilian economy that are present
on the exchange now.”  Batista, who was the world’s eighth-richest person last
year, has fallen out of the ranks of billionaires as his
companies’ stock prices plunged. OGX shares ended today’s
session in  Sao Paulo  at 77 centavos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  