-- Better Capital Mulls More Aerospace Deals After Gardner Overhaul
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-22T09:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/better-capital-mulls-more-aerospace-deals-after-gardner-overhaul.html
Private equity firm  Better Capital ,
owner of Reader’s Digest and fashion retail store Jaeger, would
consider more deals in aerospace after sales at its aircraft
components business more than doubled.  Gardner Aeropace’s annual sales have increased to about 115
million pounds ($180 million) from 50 million pounds when it was
 purchased  more than three years ago, Nick Sanders, head of
portfolio at Better Capital, said in an interview. The business
was Better Capital’s first acquisition and was bought from
Carlyle Group LP in February 2010.  “If another opportunity in the supply chain came up the
fund would look at it very seriously,” Sanders said. “The
supply chain has needed rationalizing for some time and it is
starting to happen.”  Sanders said he sees more than half a dozen potential
turnaround targets in  Europe  that Better Capital might be
interested in. The fund could do deals involving companies with
sales of about 500 million pounds, he said. Suppliers to Boeing
Co. and Airbus SAS are benefiting from large order-books and
production at record levels for many aircraft models. High
output rates have also exposed stresses among suppliers that
have struggled to keep pace with demand.  Growth Platform  Gardner, which principally supplies Airbus and has about
equal work on the A380 superjumbo, for which it makes doors, the
A350 long-range jet, and the A400M military airlifter, has
partly grown through acquisitions, including last year’s
purchase of  Airia SAS  in  France . The company also is targeting
work with other planemakers, Sanders said.  “The business now has a good platform to grow,” Sanders
said. The company was on track to lose money three years ago
before restructuring improved quality and modernized production
sites, he said.  Better Capital will eventually seek to exit its Gardner
holding, and the most likely option is a sale to a trade buyer,
Sanders said. That would probably happen only after the Airbus
A350 has entered service, he said.  Airbus plans to deliver the first A350 next year after an
inaugural test flight in June. The Toulouse-based planemaker had
booked 682 firm A350 orders through July for the plane, which
competes with the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and 777.  To help keep costs down, Gardner has acquired interests in
Poland and  India , where it has set up a  joint venture  with
Pranita Engineering. More than half of Gardner’s 1,500 employees
are now outside the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  