-- Billionaire Costs Climb as $18 Billion of Debt Due: India Credit
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-23T04:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/billionaire-costs-climb-as-18-billion-of-debt-due-india-credit.html
Default risk for Indian companies
has risen to a one-year high as a plunging rupee increases the
cost of repaying $18 billion of debt due by March.  Companies led by billionaires  Mukesh Ambani  and  Anil Agarwal  are among borrowers with $10.6 billion of bonds and
loans maturing by Dec. 31 and $7.4 billion in the following
three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average cost
of insuring notes of seven Indian issuers against non-payment
has risen 96 basis points in 2013 to 366 basis points as of Aug.
22, the highest since September, according to data provider CMA.
A similar measure for Asia fell 49 basis points to 96.  Credit Suisse Group AG predicts the fiscal period ending
March 31 could be “the year of reckoning” as the slowest
growth in a decade impairs profitability and debt-servicing
ability. SJS Markets Ltd. says the rupee’s slide to a record
will raise refinancing costs and lead to accounting losses. The
amount due in the coming seven months is similar to the $20.1
billion in debt raised overseas by Indian companies this year.  “Companies are more vulnerable to currency shocks than at
any time in recent history,” Deep Narayan Mukherjee, a Mumbai-based director at  India  Ratings Ltd., the local unit of Fitch
Ratings Ltd., said in an Aug. 20 telephone interview. “The
debt-servicing capability of Indian companies is at the lowest
level in at least five years.”  ‘Misguided’ Claims  Borrowings of 10 Indian business groups tracked by Credit
Suisse surged sixfold to 6.31 trillion rupees ($97 billion) in
the six years ended March 2013, according to an Aug. 13 research
report by the Swiss bank. These include companies such as
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Communications Ltd.,
Shashikant and Ravikant Ruia’s Essar Power Ltd., Gautam Adani’s
Adani Power Ltd. and Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources Plc.  The conclusions reached by Credit Suisse are “highly
speculative and misguided” and the brokerage didn’t provide
details on the debt, a spokesperson for Reliance Anil Dhirubhai
Ambani Group said by e-mail on Aug. 21. “There is also no
question” of facing any stress in meeting debt obligations as
the group’s projects are progressing toward scheduled
completion, the spokesperson wrote.  “Such snapshots are an unfair measure of the health of
industrial groups, given they show just the costs of
investments, not the future income from these investments,” V.
Ashok, Essar group chief financial officer, said in an Aug. 22
e-mail, referring to the Credit Suisse report. The group
companies are refinancing “high-cost” rupee loans with dollar
debt and overseas income provides a natural hedge, he said.  Currency Hedge  The Adani group had gross debt of 693 billion rupees as of
March 31, lower than the Credit Suisse estimate of 811 billion
rupees due to the sale of an Australian coal terminal, an Adani
spokesperson said in an Aug. 22 e-mail. The company has
purchased currency hedges for short-term liabilities and project
finance is of long-term nature, the spokesperson said.  Manish Kalhatgi, spokesman for GMR Infrastructure Ltd.,
declined to comment in an e-mail, while press officers at groups
controlling Vedanta, Essar Power, Adani Power, Jaiprakash
Associates Ltd. and GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment on the Credit Suisse report.  “For most of them the debt increase has outpaced capital
expenditure, and asset sales are yet to take off,” Ashish Gupta, Kush Shah and Prashant Kumar, Mumbai-based analysts at
Credit Suisse wrote in the report.  Dollar Yield  The yield on Vedanta’s $1.2 billion of 6 percent notes due
2019 rose to 8.72 percent yesterday from 6.58 percent on July
31, Bloomberg-compiled prices show. The yield on its $500
million of notes due in January rose to 6.68 percent from 3.89
percent in the same period, the data show.  The  average  yield for dollar debt of Indian companies rose
133 basis points, or 1.33 percentage point, to 6.32, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Applications to restructure stressed loans climbed to 3.38
trillion rupees as of June 30 from 2.27 trillion rupees a year
earlier, according to data from the Corporate Debt Restructuring
Cell, a forum for Indian banks to negotiate such debt. Bad loans
in the banking system reached 3.9 percent of total lending as of
the end of June, the highest in at least five years, data
compiled by the central bank show.  ‘Already Alarming’  “The level of restructured debt is already alarming and
will rise as corporates get more stressed,” Supratim Sarkar,
Mumbai-based head of structured finance at SBI Capital Markets
Ltd., said in an Aug. 19 telephone interview.  The investment banking arm of India’s largest lender
restructured 550 billion rupees of debt in the year ended March
31, an almost 17-fold increase from 33 billion rupees two years
earlier, according to Sarkar. SBI Capital is currently helping
companies including Lanco Infratech Ltd., Educomp Solutions Ltd.
and Bombay Rayon Fashions Ltd. recast loans, he said.  Shantanu Prakash, Educomp’s managing director, declined to
immediately comment when called on his mobile phone. E-mails to
Bombay Rayon’s spokeswoman Prachi Deshpande and Lanco Infratech
spokesman A. Narasimhan were unanswered.  Well-run companies that generate large proportions of their
earnings overseas will be able to tide over current difficulties
and are used to coping with rupee volatility, according to HSBC
Global Asset Management. Reliance Industries, whose exports
comprised 63 percent of sales in the quarter ended June 30, had
930.7 billion rupees of cash and equivalents at the end of the
period compared with total debt of 803.1 billion rupees.  Reliance Industries’ spokesman Tushar Pania didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Fantastically Well-Run’  “There are some fantastically well-run companies in India
with a lot of their business outside of India,” Bill Maldonado,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer for  Asia  Pacific at
HSBC Global, which manages $413 billion, said in an Aug. 21
interview. “Many of those are very cheap and profitable.”  India’s rupee has weakened 14.7 percent this year, the most
in Asia. The currency rose 0.3 percent to 64.4500 per dollar
today after dropping to a record 65.56 yesterday. The yield on
the 10-year benchmark bond has risen 24 basis points in 2013 to
8.29 percent as the central bank engineered a cash crunch to
shore up the rupee.  India Ratings said on Aug. 1 it may downgrade 65 of 290
investment-grade local issuers should the rupee remain weaker
than 60 per dollar for “a sustained period.” Only half of
local firms’ foreign-exchange exposure, which included $200
billion of outstanding overseas liabilities as of March 31, is
hedged, Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , said
in a July 10 report.  “Indian companies will able to refinance their debt at a
higher spread,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the Bangalore-based head
of credit research at SJS Markets, said in an e-mail interview
yesterday. “They will have to book the exchange-rate
differential through their profit-and-loss account, which will
negatively impact profitability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  