-- BNP Paribas Offloads Risk in First Commodity Loan Securitization
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-22T16:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/bnp-paribas-offloads-risk-in-first-commodity-loan-securitization.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  said it sold bonds
backed by commodity trade finance loans in the first deal of its
kind as the lender seeks to offload credit risk.  The $131.6 million Lighthouse Trade Finance Issuer I Ltd.
transaction got a top AAA grade from  Fitch Ratings , according to
the lender. The bonds are backed by short-term loans made by the
Paris-based bank to help finance shipments of commodities
including oil and metals.  Stricter  capital requirements  for banks are causing lenders
to trim assets and changing the way they operate. The
commodities finance business is changing as the development of
shale gas deposits in the U.S. increases the nation’s energy
self-sufficiency and  China ’s demand for commodities declines,
according to Gabriel Vaduva, BNP Paribas’ deputy head of energy
and commodity distribution solutions in Geneva.  “Historically banks have held these kinds of loans on
their balance sheet, but given the regulatory requirements it’s
time to share the risk with the investor community,” he said.  The Basel III regulations, being introduced by the European
Union in January, require banks to hold capital equivalent to at
least 7 percent of their risk weighted assets, while also
meeting an indebtedness limit and liquidity requirements.  Funding gap  The securitized assets backing BNP Paribas’ Lighthouse
transaction are short-dated and typically mature within 15 to 90
days, and the portfolio will be updated until the expected
maturity date in 2015.  The loans cover a funding gap between the commodity
companies’ payments to suppliers and the receipt of payments
from buyers, the bank said in a statement.  The transaction includes a $100 million senior tranche that
pays 85 basis points more than the one-month London interbank
offered rate, Bloomberg data show. The lender also issued an
unrated $20 million tranche, a $5 million tranche of
subordinated notes and retained notes worth $6.6 million.  “To get 85 basis points on the senior tranche of an AAA
securitization is attractive to investors, especially
considering the assets backing the deal are likely to be less
correlated to the traditional auto loans or residential
mortgages,” said Dalibor Jarnevic, Frankfurt-based ABS trader
at DZ Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  