-- Brazil July Unemployment Falls More Than Forecast and Swaps Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-22T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/brazil-july-unemployment-falls-more-than-forecast-and-swaps-rise.html
Brazil’s  unemployment  rate in July
fell to its lowest level in five months, beating estimates made
by analysts as traders in the swaps market increased bets
central bankers will tighten monetary policy to slow inflation.  The jobless rate fell to 5.6 percent from 6 percent in
June, the national statistics agency said in Rio de Janeiro
today. Economists had  forecast  unemployment would drop to 5.8
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 29 analysts.  Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff is seeking to spur the
economy by regaining investor confidence that has been chipped
away by inflation near the top of the central bank’s target
range. The fight against consumer price increases may be
hampered by a weakening currency that makes imports costlier.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 10.63 percent at 9:16 a.m. local time. The
real, which has declined 16 percent in the past three months,
strengthened 0.7 percent to 2.4376 per U.S. dollar.  Inflation in July slowed to 6.27 percent, above the 4.5
percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range and near the
6.5 percent ceiling. The central bank has raised the benchmark
Selic rate by a total of 125 basis points in its past three
monetary policy meetings.  Gross domestic product probably increased 0.7 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter,
according to analysts polled by Bloomberg. GDP in the first
quarter rose 0.6 percent, falling short of economist estimates
for the fifth straight time.  Industrial confidence, as measured by the national industry
confederation known as CNI, in July fell to its lowest level in
four years before rebounding in August.  The labor force grew to 24.5 million people from 24.4
million a month before as the number of unemployed fell to 1.38
million from 1.46 million, the statistics agency said.  Brazil ’s economy  created  41,463 government-registered jobs
in July, less than half the median forecast of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg and the least for the month in a decade, the Labor
Ministry said in a report yesterday. The result was also lower
than all analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  