-- Brazil Real Surges on $60 Billion Intervention Plan
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-08-23T21:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/brazil-offers-60-bln-in-auctions-to-stem-real-s-plunge.html
Brazil’s real posted its biggest
gain in almost two years as the central bank stepped up efforts
to stem the world’s worst currency decline, announcing a $60
billion intervention program involving swaps and loans.  The real climbed 3.7 percent to 2.3488 per dollar in Sao
Paulo, paring its decline in the past three months to 13
percent, still the biggest among 31 major dollar counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. It’s up 1.9 percent this week, the most
since February.  “This currency program helps to reduce the market’s
apprehension over the  exchange rate  a bit,”  Luciano Rostagno ,
the chief strategist at Banco Mizuho do Brasil in Sao Paulo,
said in a phone interview. “The measures won’t be enough to
decouple the real from foreign markets, however.”  A plunge in the real to a four-year low this week
threatened to stoke inflation, which is at almost the top end of
the central bank’s target range. Investors are exiting  emerging
markets  as the  Federal Reserve  prepares to reduce the amount of
money it pumps into the world economy.  The central bank will auction $1 billion of dollar loans
every Friday starting today and offer the equivalent of $500
million worth of foreign-exchange swaps each day Monday through
Thursday, according to a statement late yesterday. The program
will run through Dec. 31.  Indonesia, Peru  Indonesian policy makers said today that they will increase
foreign-currency supply to stem a sliding rupiah, while allowing
more mineral exports this year to narrow a current-account
deficit and spur economic growth.  Peru ’s central bank sold a
record $600 million in the local foreign-exchange market on Aug.
21 to support the sol after it touched a three-year low.  In its defense of the real, Brazil’s central bank has yet
to tap into its $374 billion in  foreign reserves , which are up
from $261 billion three years ago and $48 billion a decade ago.  The intervention announced yesterday adds to swap and
credit-line actions already announced this year worth $45
billion. The central bank had been conducting the offerings
without an established schedule.  The program is “one of the boldest attempts yet by an
emerging-market central bank to shore up its currency following
the rout of recent weeks,”  Neil Shearing , the chief emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said in an e-mailed report.  Emergency Meeting  The announcement follows an emergency meeting President
 Dilma Rousseff  called on the evening of Aug. 21 at her
residence, Palacio Alvorada, to discuss the weakening currency
with central bank president Alexandre Tombini and Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega . Tombini canceled a trip to the meetings
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , of the world’s top monetary policy
makers so he could monitor Brazilian markets.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2015 fell 35 basis
points, or 0.35 percentage point, to 10.24 percent and were down
nine basis points this week.  Brazil must address fundamental economic issues for
investors to regain confidence, Carlos Kawall, the chief
economist at Banco J. Safra SA, said by phone from London.  The fiscal situation has deteriorated as policy makers
increase expenditures while implementing tax cuts worth 35.1
billion reais during the first six months of the year, according
to the national tax agency.  “Aside from what the central bank is doing, the government
needs to make more difficult decisions to make its fiscal policy
more credible,” Kawall said.  Treasury Stance  Following the central bank’s announcement of the program
yesterday, Treasury Undersecretary  Paulo Valle  told reporters in
Brasilia that the Treasury stands ready to act when necessary.
The best strategy in moments of volatility is to reduce the debt
duration by buying back long-term bonds and selling short term,
Valle said.  The real has tumbled this year as investors questioned
Rousseff’s ability to attract investment and cut  government
spending , which has kept inflation above the midpoint of policy
makers’ target for 35 months.  Brazil has raised its  target lending rate  in 2013 more than
any major economy, increasing by 1.25 percentage points from a
record low 7.25 percent in April.  Consumer prices  as measured by the IPCA-15 index climbed
0.16 percent in the month through mid-August, the national
statistics agency reported two days ago. That was more than
double the 0.07 percent inflation rate in the month through mid-July. Annual inflation eased to 6.15 percent after surpassing
the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range
earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  