-- Brazilian Swap Rates Climb on Fuel Price Prospects; Real Gains
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-22T13:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/brazilian-swap-rates-climb-on-fuel-price-prospects-real-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose to the
highest in almost two years after a newspaper reported that the
government may raise fuel prices, adding to speculation that the
central bank will step up increases in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2016 climbed 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 11.54 percent at
10:14 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , the highest level on a closing basis
since September 2011. The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.4435
per U.S. dollar after tumbling 2.5 percent yesterday to the
weakest since December 2008.  Brazil will authorize price increases for diesel and
gasoline, O Estado de S. Paulo reported today, without saying
where it got the information. The Finance Ministry didn’t
respond to a request from  Bloomberg News  for comment. Swap rates
also rose after the nation’s  unemployment rate  fell to 5.6
percent, lower than the 5.8 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have speculation about an increase in fuel prices and
a better-than-expected unemployment rate,” Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, the chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “If this increase in fuel prices happens, it
could make inflation stick at 6 percent.”  The annual inflation rate slowed to 6.15 percent in the
month through mid-August, the national statistics agency
reported yesterday.  The central bank’s target is 4.5 percent
plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  met with central bank
President Alexandre Tombini and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
yesterday to discuss the weakening real, according to a
government official who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to comment on the issue publicly.  To stem the currency’s declines, the central bank plans to
offer currency swap contracts in a rollover and hold two
foreign-exchange credit-line auctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  