-- Brooke Astor Heir Anthony Marshall Granted Medical Parole
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-22T22:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/brooke-astor-heir-anthony-marshall-granted-medical-parole.html
Anthony Marshall, the 89-year-old
son of the late New York philanthropist and socialite Brooke Astor, was granted his release from jail on medical parole.  Marshall, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease and other
ailments, was convicted in October 2009 of grand larceny and
other charges for changing his mother’s will while she was
incompetent. He was sentenced to one to three years in prison
and taken to jail in June.  Marshall was found to be “suffering from a significant and
permanent nonterminal condition, disease or syndrome” that has
rendered him “physically or cognitively debilitated or
incapacitated as to create a reasonable probability” that he
doesn’t present a danger to society, the parole board said in a
unanimous decision made public today.  The panel told Marshall it considered factors including
“the nature of the instant offense, your risk to the community
and our finding that there is a reasonable probability that you
will live and remain at liberty without violating the law.”  Astor, who suffered from Alzheimer’s disease, died in 2007
at the age of 105. She was one of the last of the American
branch of the Astors, a family whose financial and social
prestige was once equal to that of the Rockefellers and the
Morgans. Marshall, the product of her first marriage, is her
only son.  John Jacob  Her third husband was Vincent Astor, who died in 1959. He
was heir to the fur and real-estate fortune amassed in the 19th
century by John Jacob Astor, who in his time was the wealthiest
man in the U.S.  Marshall was accused of taking advantage of his mother
partly by trying to obtain millions of dollars she intended for
charity. He was motivated by fear that his wife, Charlene,
wouldn’t be left with enough money when he died, prosecutors
said. Astor, who didn’t like her son’s wife, left her only coats
and jewelry, they said.  Marshall’s inheritance was cut by more than half, to
$14.5 million from $31 million, in a settlement of his mother’s
estate reached in March 2012 that provides $100 million to
charities including Central Park, the New York Public Library
and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  Appeals Failed  He was taken to jail in June following a three-year effort
to get an appeals court to overturn his conviction. He has been
receiving medical care at an outside hospital since July 30 and
appeared before the parole board yesterday, according to a
statement from the state Department of Correctional Services.  Medical parole was granted under the state’s Compassionate
Release Program, the department said. Marshall will be
supervised in New York through June 2016, the date when his
maximum sentence expires, Linda Foglia, a spokeswoman for the
department, said in an e-mail.  Kenneth Warner, an attorney for Marshall, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on the parole
board’s decision.  The case is People v. Marshall, 06044-2007, New York
Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  