-- Calpers Commits to $600 Million Harbert Management Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A n i t a   S h a r p e
-- 2013-08-22T22:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/calpers-commits-to-600-million-harbert-management-fund.html
California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension fund, is the lead
investor in a $600 million pool formed by Harbert Management
Corp. for investments in North American power assets.  The fund, Gulf Pacific Power LLC, will focus on assets that
require larger equity commitments than Harbert’s main power
fund, Harbert Power Fund V LLC, the Birmingham, Alabama-based
firm said today in an e-mailed statement. The fifth fund, which
held an interim close at more than $200 million, and its
investors also have the option to co-invest alongside the
Calpers pool.  Harbert, the original backer for hedge-fund manager  Phil Falcone , is seeking to take advantage of investor appetite for
predictable  cash flow  by raising funds that rely on contracts to
sell power plants’ capacity and energy. Harbert, which oversaw
$3 billion as of Aug. 1, acquires interests in existing power
assets with contracts to sell output. It can also back new
development projects if long-term power sales contracts are in
place, according to its website.  The $600 million gathered by Gulf Pacific Power includes
commitments from Calpers and Harbert affiliates, the firm said.
It expects to hold a final close on its fifth fund, which is
seeking $500 million, this year. Calpers, the sole limited
partner in the larger pool, also made a commitment to the fifth
fund, Harbert said, without specifying the amount.  Investment Areas  Harbert, whose first power fund began investing in 1996,
focuses on assets including European and U.S. real estate,
 venture capital , mezzanine debt, independent power, stocks and
U.S. and Australian private equity.  The Calpers’ commitment to the two funds is consistent with
“strategic plan objectives of investing in high-quality
infrastructure with leading partners,” Joe DeAnda, a spokesman
for the  pension plan , said in an e-mail.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index rose 0.7 percent
in today’s trading. The index has climbed 6.3 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 16 percent for the  S&P 500 .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Anita Sharpe in Atlanta  at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  