-- Canada June Retail Sales Fall From Record on Flood
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-08-22T14:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/canada-june-retail-sales-fall-from-record-after-alberta-flood.html
Canadian  retail sales  fell in June
by the most this year as flooding in  Alberta  and a Quebec
construction strike disrupted spending, adding to evidence the
economy shrank during the month.  Sales decreased 0.6 percent to C$40.1 billion ($38.2
billion), Statistics  Canada  said today in Ottawa, after touching
a record the previous month. Economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg
News  forecast a 0.4 percent drop, based on the median of 20
projections.  Canada’s economy may have recorded its biggest monthly
contraction since 2009 in June, as the the world’s 11th-largest
economy struggles to build steam. Today’s reports mirror other
recent signs of weakness, including an unexpected employment
decline in July, and drops in factory sales and wholesale sales
for June.  “The Canadian economy looks to have ended the second
quarter on a very sour note,”  Benjamin Reitzes , an economist at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto, said in a note to investors. While
the flooding and strike had an impact, “the declines in the
retail, wholesale and manufacturing activity seen in June were
also driven by broader underlying weakness,” he said.  Negative Surprises  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for Canada this week
has fallen to its lowest since April. Canada’s dollar
depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0498 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:15
a.m. in Toronto.  A June contraction is consistent with  Bank of Canada 
forecasts for a 1 percent expansion in the second quarter, down
from 2.5 percent in the first quarter. Economic growth will be
“choppy” in the next few months, Bank of Canada Governor
Stephen Poloz said in a July forecast.  Statistics Canada  will report monthly and quarterly gross
domestic product data on Aug. 30. Reitzes said GDP may have
contracted by 0.5 percent in June, which would be the sharpest
decline since March 2009.  Retail sales in oil-rich Alberta fell 0.6 percent while
Quebec receipts declined 1.3 percent, the third fall in four
months, the statistics agency said today. In Ontario, the
country’s most populous province, sales dropped 1.4 percent,
Statistics Canada said.  Food and beverage sales posted the largest dollar decline
by merchandise category, with a 1.2 percent fall to C$8.91
billion. Sales fell in eight of 11  categories  making up 57
percent of total receipts.  Auto Strength  One area of strength was  motor vehicle  and parts sales,
with a 0.2 percent gain led by new car purchases marking the
sixth straight monthly advance. Purchases  excluding  the motor
vehicle and parts category fell 0.8 percent. Economists had
forecast they would be little changed.  Sales in June were 3.1 percent higher than  a year earlier ,
Statistics Canada said.  The drag on June’s economic output from retail sales may be
larger than the decline in total receipts suggests. The  volume 
of sales, which excludes price changes and more closely reflects
the industry’s contribution to growth, fell 1.2 percent.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said the number of
Canadians receiving jobless benefits rose in June.  The number of  regular beneficiaries  rose by 4,520, or by
0.9 percent, to 512,280. From the year-ago month, the total
number of beneficiaries fell 6.4 percent, or by 34,990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  