-- CBS Pressures Time Warner Cable With Verizon FiOS Deal
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-23T13:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/cbs-pressures-time-warner-cable-with-verizon-fios-deal.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  reached a three-year
agreement to keep its network on  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
FiOS pay-TV system, putting pressure on  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
to relent in its stalemate with the broadcaster.  The contract with FiOS is “almost exactly the same deal”
offered to Time Warner Cable, giving Verizon customers access to
CBS in cities including  New York , Los Angeles and  Dallas , CBS
Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves wrote yesterday in a memo to
employees. It also includes moving CBS Sports Network to a
broader tier that will increase distribution for the channel,
Moonves said. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Time Warner Cable began blacking out CBS in New York, Los
Angeles and Dallas almost three weeks ago after negotiations
between the companies came to an impasse.  “I cannot describe to you the frustration I feel at the
way these negotiations have gone,” Moonves said. “Never in my
most pessimistic moments did I ever think that they would have
lasted this long and have been so difficult. In many aspects of
the deal, Time Warner Cable is demanding different terms than
any other company in the business. I am frankly mystified by
what appears to be a lack of urgency to resolve this matter for
their customers.”  Time Warner Cable spokeswoman  Maureen Huff  declined to
comment on Moonves’s note. Moonves reiterated CBS would keep
talking to Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable
provider. The duration of the blackout surpasses the two-week
shutdown of Fox on  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , a similar clash in
2010.  Fees Rising  Verizon will pay CBS retransmission fees of $1.50 a
household in 2014, rising to $1.90 a home in 2016,  Michael Morris , an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia ,
estimated yesterday in a report. CBS will receive $461 million
in fees from pay-TV systems and from its affiliates this year,
Morris wrote. That will rise to $639 million next year as the
company continues to negotiate new agreements with distributors,
he said.  The Verizon estimates from Morris are too high, Bill Kula,
a spokesman for Verizon, said in an interview. He wouldn’t
provide specifics.  “Given the popularity and ratings of CBS hit programming,
including premier sporting events and the NFL, the company is
justified in raising its rates to a more market-comparable
level,” wrote Morris, who recommends CBS shares.  CBS was little changed at $52.73 at 9:49 a.m. in New York.
The shares had  climbed  39 percent this year through yesterday.
Verizon rose 0.5 percent to $47.24 and Time Warner Cable fell 1
percent to $107.92.  Antenna Offer  Time Warner Cable said today it has a limited amount of
indoor antennas customers can pick up from its stores to get CBS
over the air. It also will offer $20 toward the purchase of an
antenna at Best Buy Inc. stores, it said in a  post  on its
website that was reported earlier today by Variety.  The  National Football League , the most popular sports
league in the U.S.,  begins  its season Sept. 5, with the first
CBS games airing Sept. 8 -- a date looming over the negotiations
with Time Warner Cable.  Verizon has about 5 million TV  customers . Most of them are
in the three markets affected by the blackout at Time Warner
Cable, Moonves said. Verizon has more customers than Time Warner
Cable in those markets, he said.  Temporary Reprieve  Time Warner Cable and CBS have agreed to temporarily lift
their blackout in  New York City  for as many as three political
debates, Huff said. Those include one tonight between the
Democratic primary’s comptroller candidates; a Republican
mayoral debate on Aug. 28; and a debate, if necessary, between
Democratic mayoral runoff candidates on Sept. 23. No other
programming will be affected.  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, is offering a free
preview of the Tennis Channel to customers who can’t get CBS
during the U.S. Open because of the contract dispute.  Digital basic-cable customers in New York,  Los Angeles ,
Dallas and other regions without CBS will get 75 hours of live
matches plus additional coverage on the Tennis Channel for no
additional charge, Time Warner Cable said in an Aug. 21
statement. The network isn’t normally available on basic cable.  “We know the U.S. Open is popular programming,” Mike Angus, Time Warner Cable’s senior vice president and general
manager of video, said in a statement. “We’re pleased to be
able to offer additional programming via Tennis Channel to
customers affected by this dispute.”  CBS has exclusive TV coverage of the tournament’s later
matches, including the men’s and women’s singles semifinals and
finals. Live matches are also available on ESPN2, CBS Sports
Network and USOpen.org.  “The only way to watch CBS’s coverage of the  U.S. Open  on
television is on CBS,” the New York-based broadcaster said in
an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. Open begins Aug. 26 and ends Sept. 9. It is the
last of tennis’s four major championships, including the
Australian Open, the French Open and Wimbledon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  