-- China Money-Market Rate Drops a Second Day on Reverse Repos
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-22T09:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/china-money-market-rate-drops-a-second-day-on-reverse-repos.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for a second day as the central bank added cash to the
financial system.  The People’s Bank of China issued 46 billion  yuan  ($7.5
billion) of 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements at a yield of
4.1 percent, according to a trader at a primary dealer required
to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority also added 36
billion yuan via seven-day reverse repos at a yield of 3.9
percent on Aug. 20. It has used the operations to inject funds
since late July, following a cash crunch in June.  “The active reverse repo or liquidity strategy to ensure
smooth money-market operations” led to the drop in rates, said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a Societe Generale SA strategist in  Hong Kong .  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 16 basis points to
4.16 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate
reached 4.51 percent on Aug. 20, the highest level since Aug. 2.
It’s averaged 3.71 percent in the past year.  The price of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.11 percent in
Shanghai, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The PBOC and Ministry of Finance will sell 50 billion yuan
of 91-day treasury deposits to commercial banks on Aug. 27,
according to a statement on the website of Beijing-based China
Central Depository & Clearing Co.  Manufacturing Gauge  “Liquidity conditions in the banking system continue to be
tight, as reflected in elevated repo rates,”  Igor Arsenin  and
 Rohit Arora , Singapore-based analysts at Barclays Plc, wrote in
a research report today. “Nevertheless, expectations are that
liquidity will improve in August, based on a resumption of
foreign-exchange inflows and continuing reverse-repo operations
by the PBOC.”  A Chinese manufacturing index rose in August from an 11-month low, adding to signs the world’s second-biggest economy is
stabilizing. The preliminary reading of 50.1 for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compares with a final figure of 47.7 in July. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  