-- China Invited Foreign Companies to Antitrust Talks Before Fines
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-22T04:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/china-invited-foreign-companies-to-antitrust-talks-before-fines.html
China ’s commerce ministry invited
foreign companies to a meeting about antitrust regulations two
weeks before overseas milk powder producers were slapped with
record penalties for price fixing.  Tetra Pak Group, which makes packaging for drinks, attended
the discussions on July 24 and 25 at a Beijing hotel, company
spokesman Chris Huntley said.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , a U.S. seller of
semiconductors for mobile phones, and other companies were
invited to last month’s meeting, according to spokeswoman
Christine Trimble.  China fined six dairy companies including  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and  Danone SA (BN)  a combined 669 million  yuan  ($109
million) earlier this month for price fixing after they tried to
fix minimum resale prices of their products, limiting
competition in the industry, China’s National Development and
Reform Commission said.  An official of the NDRC, the country’s economic planner,
pressured about 30 foreign companies including  General Electric
Co. (GE) , Samsung Electronics Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to admit
antitrust violations at the meeting, Reuters  reported  yesterday.
The official warned the group not to use lawyers to fight
against accusations from regulators, Reuters reported, citing
two unidentified people and another with direct knowledge of the
issue.  Spokesmen for GE and Microsoft declined to comment on the
report. Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Samsung, said the company
has no knowledge of the meeting.  An official in the spokesman’s office for the NDRC who
didn’t want to be identified also declined to comment. Phone
calls to the Ministry of Commerce’s Beijing-based media office
went unanswered. A women at the ministry’s Anti-Monopoly Bureau,
who declined to be named, said the bureau only oversees cases of
potential monopolies resulting from mergers and acquisitions.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  