-- Chris Paul Aims for Stability After Election to Union Presidency
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-22T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/chris-paul-of-clippers-voted-president-of-nba-players-union.html
Chris Paul  said his priority as
president of the National Basketball Players Association will be
to guide the union through a period of flux that saw  Billy Hunter  fired as  executive director .  “We want to make sure our house is in order,” Paul said
on a conference call after his election last night. “The top
priority is to continue to get as much involvement as possible
from the players. That’s what it’s supposed to be about.”  Los Angeles Clippers point guard Paul, 28, a six-time All-Star, succeeds  Derek Fisher , whose term is expiring. Paul, a
vice president on the union’s executive committee for four years,
is the first marquee player to hold the presidency since  Patrick Ewing ’s term ended in 2001.  Paul said there is “no rush” to replace Hunter, who was
ousted amid charges of nepotism and abuse of union resources.
Player representatives from 24 of the 30 NBA teams voted
unanimously in February to fire Hunter, ending the former
federal prosecutor’s 16-year tenure.  “Right now it’s a big time for players and the union,”
Paul said. “Moving forward is not about me but about players as
a whole -- moving forward to grow the game and build the game.”  Nine-year NBA veteran Roger Mason Jr., 32, who had been
considered the front-runner to become president, was elected
first vice president in yesterday’s vote in  Las Vegas .  Internal Audit  Hunter’s dismissal ended almost a year of speculation about
his future with the association, punctuated by the results of an
audit of the union conducted by New York-based law firm Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison. The review concluded that,
while Hunter did nothing illegal, he failed to manage conflicts
of interest, lacked proper corporate governance and didn’t
disclose that his $3 million-a-year contract wasn’t properly
ratified.  In his rebuttal, Hunter said his contract was valid and
that he has always put players first. Hunter sued the union,
Fisher and his publicist, Jamie Wior, in May, alleging they
engaged in secret negotiations with team owners to end the 2011
NBA lockout.  Hunter helped negotiate collective bargaining agreements
that pushed the average NBA player’s salary to more than $5
million, the highest in U.S. team sports. The union, in debt
when Hunter took over, now has $80 million in net assets,
according to his rebuttal.  $10 Million Claim  Hunter also said that his contract is valid and he is owed
more than $10 million if terminated. The audit report said the
union had “no obligation” to accept the document as
enforceable.  Player representatives never voted to ratify Hunter’s
contract, a necessary step under union bylaws, the audit said.
Hunter responded that such a vote is necessary for new contracts,
not extensions.  James Jones  of the  Miami Heat  and Jerry Stackhouse of the
Brooklyn Nets have emerged as key voices for the union during
the six-month transition period since Fisher led the drive to
oust Hunter. Staff attorney Ron Klempner was named interim
executive director on Feb. 1.  Hall of Fame center Ewing left the union presidency after
overseeing a lockout in 1998-99 that canceled regular-season
games for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  