-- Circumcision Rate Drops as U.S. Societal Opinions Waver
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-22T16:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/circumcision-rate-drops-as-u-s-societal-opinions-waver.html
The  circumcision  rate for newborn
males in the U.S. dropped 10 percent in the past three decades,
amid fluctuating medical guidelines, changes in the immigrant
population, and a growing movement that opposes the practice.  From 1979 to 2010, the rate of newborn circumcision
declined to 58 percent from 65 percent, according to a report
today by the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . The
rate was the highest in 1981, with 65 percent of male infants
circumcised, and lowest in 2007, at 55 percent, the CDC said.  The removal of the foreskin from the tip of the penis is
prevalent in the U.S., as well as in  Israel  and in  Muslim
countries  because of the religious laws of Judaism and Islam. In
the U.S., where medical guidelines have fluctuated, doctors
currently don’t recommend the practice for medical reasons.  “I’ve been in practice for over 40 years and there wasn’t
any question about whether to circumcise in the ‘good old days’
because parents were worried about what might happen in the
locker room in middle school or high school,” said  Thomas
McInerny , president of the  American Academy  of Pediatrics, in a
telephone interview. “But circumcision is less frequent in
 Europe  and  Asia , so in time as more immigration has occurred,
there are more uncircumcised floating around in locker rooms, so
you’re not going to get an embarrassing situation.”  What’s more, the days when doctors said “do this” and
patients didn’t question them are over, said McInerny, who
wasn’t involved in the CDC study.  Shared Decisions  Shared decision-making between patients and doctors means
that parents often get the drawbacks and benefits, and may
choose to forgo the procedure, for which there are “small
risks,” mostly bleeding, McInerny said.  The AAP, an organization of more than 60,000 pediatricians,
said there was no medical indication for routine newborn
circumcision in the 1970s. In 1989, the group revised its
position, saying there were potential medical benefits. Then in
1999, the group said there was insufficient evidence to
recommend routine circumcision. The most recent policy
statement, released in September 2012, says that the benefits
aren’t great enough to recommend routine circumcision of
newborns, though third party payers should reimburse the cost.  “Parents ultimately should decide whether circumcision is
in the best interests of their male child,” doctors wrote in
 the statement . It said parents should weigh medical information
with their religious and cultural beliefs and practices, since
the medical benefits may not outweigh those considerations.  U.S. Findings  Rates of circumcision in Western U.S. states dropped the
most in the 32-year period studied. In that region, 40 percent
of newborns were circumcised in 2010, compared with 64 percent
in 1979. Rates in the Northeast remained unchanged, with about
two-thirds of infants undergoing the procedure. In the Midwest,
the rates followed the national pattern. That’s likely due to
demographic changes from immigration, McInerny said.  Some patient and parent groups argue that circumcision is
an unnecessary medical procedure and should be avoided, and
Medicaid, the joint U.S.-state health program for the poor, has
stopped funding the procedure in 18 states.  “It’s a brutal and unnecessary procedure to inflict on a
baby that can’t consent,” said Georganne Chapin, the executive
director of the anti-circumcision advocacy group Intact America,
in a telephone interview. “The biggest reason people have moved
from circumcising their children, moving toward leaving their
children as they’re born, is they’ve realized circumcision isn’t
necessary and it’s painful.”  Medical Evidence  There is evidence that circumcision may have medical
benefits. Research suggests circumcision leads to fewer cases of
HIV, herpes, genital warts and genital cancers among men and
their sexual partners, and has garnered support from groups such
as the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  for use in  Africa .  In a study published in August 2012, researchers said
reduced rates of circumcision may boost U.S. health-care costs
by $4.4 billion if rates plunge to levels seen in Europe, where
only 10 percent of boys are circumcised. The study, published in
the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, was led by
Aaron Tobian, a health epidemiologist and pathologist at  Johns
Hopkins University  in Baltimore.  “The advocacy against circumcision has been highly vocal,
and they have done a better job of communicating to the lay
public than scientists have,” Tobian said. He wasn’t involved
in today’s study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  