-- Circumcision Entering NYC Mayor Race With Jews Swing Vote
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-08-22T04:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/circumcision-entering-nyc-mayor-race-with-jews-swing-vote.html
New York City’s growing Orthodox
Jewish population, the largest outside  Israel , may play a
decisive role in choosing the next mayor, with some votes
turning on regulation of a 1,500-year-old circumcision ritual.  The city’s  limits  on metzitzah b’peh, in which the mohel
who performs the procedure on an eight-day-old boy sucks blood
from the cut penis to clean the wound, is an issue of intense
interest to the Orthodox, a highly disciplined voting bloc with
the potential to sway a tight election.  Circumcision regulation was the first question for mayoral
candidates in a May forum sponsored by the  Jewish Press . Jewish
law requires removal of a male’s foreskin. The Health Board
voted in September to require parents give consent for the mohel
to suck the blood after 12 babies contracted herpes since 2000,
and two died. Of six candidates at the gathering, only Council
Speaker Christine Quinn said she’d retain that policy.  “We see it as the first step of interfering with religious
practice in general and the circumcision ritual in particular,”
said Leon Goldenberg, 60, a  Brooklyn  real estate agent and
Orthodox Jew who describes himself as a progressive Democrat.  In a hotly contested election where a few thousand votes
could make a difference, seven Democrats are vying for their
party’s nomination in a Sept. 10 primary. It’s probable that no
one will win more than 40 percent of the vote, forcing an Oct. 1
run-off between the top two finishers.  Contest Narrows  With less than three weeks to go, the contest for this bloc
of voters has narrowed to former city Comptroller William Thompson, 60, and city Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, 52. Both
are from Brooklyn, where almost 80 percent of the Orthodox live,
according to state Assemblyman Dov Hikind of Borough Park.  Hikind said he planned to endorse Thompson today. He has
known Thompson 31 years, he said last week in an interview.  “Both lobbied me nonstop,” he said. “I’ve had them at my
Shabbos table with their wives. Both would be sensitive to the
concerns of the Orthodox community, a growing segment of our
city’s population.”  New York’s Orthodox population has grown 32 percent in the
past 12 years, and now composes about 40 percent of the 1.1
million Jews in the city, according to the  Jewish Community
Study of New York: 2011  from the UJA-Federation of New York.  Orthodox leaders have traditionally influenced the votes of
their community, which may constitute as much as 7 percent of
the Democratic primary’s voters, said David Pollock, who
specializes in politics and government at New York’s  Jewish
Community Relations Council .  ‘Votes Wholesale’  “There is a finite number of places where you can collect
votes wholesale rather than retail and the Orthodox community is
one of them,” Pollock said in an interview.  So, from the streets of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to the
vacation bungalow-colonies in the Catskill Mountains, most
Democratic mayoral candidates have designated Orthodox staff
members or community leaders, such as Goldenberg, who backs de
Blasio, as ambassadors to the insular communities.  In public forums and private meetings, candidates vow to
reduce the burden of tuition for Jewish schools by subsidizing
bus transportation, security, special-education materials or
after-school programs.  Thompson, the only black candidate in the race, was
Brooklyn’s deputy borough president before leading the city
Board of Education in the 1990s, and served as comptroller, a
citywide elective office, from 2002 to 2009.  Democratic Leader  His father, William C. Thompson Sr., was well-known to the
city’s Jews as a Democratic Party leader who represented them in
the City Council and the state Senate before becoming an
appellate judge. The longstanding relationship tipped the scale
in favor of Thompson, Hikind said in explaining his endorsement.  “We’ve worked with Bill Thompson his whole life and we
know him,” said Abe Biderman, a resident of Brooklyn’s
predominantly Orthodox neighborhood of Borough Park. “There’s a
comfort level there.”  Speaker Quinn, 46, the frontrunner in most public opinion
polls for several months, hasn’t done so well with Orthodox
voters, several community leaders said.  The reasons she’s lagging behind in these communities may
include her Manhattan-based council constituency, her
identification with Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who initiated the
health department regulation, and because she's a gay candidate
married to a woman, according to  Jacob Kornbluh , a videographer
and writer who publishes a blog about politics in Brooklyn’s
Orthodox community. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Social Split  “It’s between Thompson and de Blasio because fairly or
not, there’s socially too big a space between speaker Quinn and
this group of voters,” said Michael Tobman, a former aide to
U.S. Senator Charles Schumer. Tobman is now a political
consultant who works in the Orthodox community.  It’s not enough for candidates to go to a synagogue, put on
a traditional skullcap and talk about supporting Israel, said
Tobman. They have to demonstrate an understanding of community
needs, and be able to navigate through sectarian differences and
rivalries, he said.  Thompson took his campaign last month to the Catskills
where hundreds of the city’s Orthodox Jews vacation each summer
and, as a guest of honor, threw the first pitch at a baseball
game.  While former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner, 48, the
only Jew in the race, has a record of supporting pro-Israel and
pro-Jewish causes, he has been ensnared in scandal.  Rabbi’s Blessing  Last month, he made the trip from his apartment on South
Park Avenue in  Manhattan  to Borough Park to receive the blessing
of Rabbi Moshe Leib Rabinovich, leader of a sect of Hungarian
Hasidic Jews. Seated at his side and wearing a black yarmulke,
Weiner pledged that as mayor he would “walk with a very light
touch” dealing with religious practices.  Thompson has also emphasized his long-held relationships
with the Jews of Brooklyn. He likes to sprinkle his speeches
with Yiddish words when he’s courting these communities.  “I’ve worked in the Jewish community for decades,”
Thompson said after a campaign stop at the Midwood Jewish Center
in Brooklyn. “It’s part of who I am. It’s part of my
background.”  On the circumcision issue, de Blasio, like Thompson, has
criticized Bloomberg for requiring parental consent without
consulting the community.  Bloomberg “tried to impose his will without respect for
religious tradition,” de Blasio said at the May 29 Jewish Press
forum. He promised the group he’d find a way to “change the
policy to protect all of our children but also respect religious
tradition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  