-- Cisco Sees Brazilian Expansion Opportunity in Currency Plunge
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-22T21:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/cisco-sees-brazilian-expansion-opportunity-in-currency-plunge.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, said it is expanding in Brazil at
a time when currency volatility and a slowdown in Latin
America’s largest economy discourage some of its competitors.  Based in San Jose,  California , Cisco opened an innovation
center in Rio de Janeiro today to boost sales and services to
government and corporate clients, including energy and mining
companies, Robert Lloyd, head of development and sales, said in
an interview.  “In challenging times, or rocky periods, that’s when you
can actually make your biggest gains,” Lloyd said at Cisco’s
office in downtown Rio. “We’ve been through these things many
times in our 30-year history and we adapt and adjust to the
fluctuations in currencies.”  Brazil ’s real has weakened 16 percent against the dollar in
the past three months, the biggest decline among emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. For Cisco, the weaker real
makes its imported equipment more expensive in Brazil while
reducing the cost of its investments in the country, Lloyd said.
Cisco uses hedging to minimize the impact of currency moves in
the countries where it operates, he said.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent last
year, the worst performance since 2009. Analysts surveyed weekly
by the central bank have cut 2013 economic growth forecasts by
more than one percentage point so far this year.  The slowdown in Chinese growth has affected Cisco’s sales
in other regions, including Brazil and  India , that export to
 China , Lloyd said. Still, Cisco had about $50 billion in cash at
the end of June and is looking for investment opportunities
outside of the U.S., he said.  “Slower growth right now is the reality, and we’re
committed because you have an amazingly good long-term story
here,” Lloyd said. “It’s a time when people pull back and it’s
a time when we play to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  