-- Coffee Output in India Seen Missing Estimate on Rains, Pests
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-22T10:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/coffee-output-in-india-may-miss-estimate-on-monsoon-rains-pests.html
India ,  Asia ’s third-largest coffee
exporter, may miss the forecast for a record crop next year
after the highest monsoon rainfall in almost two decades damaged
beans and increased pest attacks.  Production may total about 317,000 metric tons next season,
30,000 tons less than the all-time high of 347,000 tons forecast
by the  Coffee Board of India  in July, said Anil Kumar Bhandari,
a member of the state-run agency. The harvest was 318,200 tons
in the year that began on Oct. 1, 2012, board data showed.  Reduced supplies from India, where robusta accounts for 70
percent of the output, may help stem a decline in prices of the
bitter-tasting beans used by  Nestle SA (NESN)  in instant drinks. Global
production including arabica variety will exceed demand for a
fourth straight year and inventories will climb to the highest
since 2009, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  “Cherry dropping in robusta has been an issue because of
excessive rains,” Bhandari said by phone from Bangalore
yesterday. “There have been heavy pest attacks of the white
stem borer on arabica crop. The white stem borer has been there
for three to four years, and each year, about 5 percent of the
crop gets destroyed.”  The main growing areas in Karnataka, which produces about
70 percent of India’s output, received as much as 29 percent
more monsoon rains between June 1 and Aug. 20, according to the
 India Meteorological Department . Rainfall in the first two
months of the July-September monsoon season, the main source of
irrigation for India’s 235 million farmers, was the highest
since 1994, according to the bureau.  Wet Foot  “Firstly, in April, the showers failed miserably and high
temperatures affected the crop,” said Nishant Gurjer, chairman
of the  Karnataka Planters’ Association . “From June onward, we
have received more rains than in the last 20 years.”  The association expects production to decline to 280,000
tons as excessive soil moisture has led to wet foot disease
damaging many plants, he said.  Robusta for delivery in November fell 1 percent to $1,811 a
ton on NYSE Liffe in  London  at 3:36 p.m. in Mumbai, while the
arabica contract for December gained 0.4 percent to $1.1765 a
pound in  New York . Robusta has fallen 5.9 percent this year,
while arabica futures have retreated 18 percent.  The robusta variety is grown in Asia and parts of  Africa .
Arabica is produced mainly in  Latin America  and brewed by
specialty companies including Starbucks.  Rupee Benefit  Exports from India will pick up from September as buyers in
 North America ,  Japan  and Eastern Europe start purchases and
shipments this year may equal sales in 2012, Bhandari said.
Exports fell 4.1 percent to 217,492 tons in the seven months
through July from a year earlier, according to the board.
Exports included 116,732 tons of robusta and 43,206 tons of
arabica, board data showed.  “There may be a small spurt in exports in the next three
months because the dollar strength will enable exporters to
offer a good price to buyers,” said Gurjer. “For the full
year, exports will be flat.”  India’s rupee plunged to a record today after minutes from
a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting showed that the central bank is
getting closer to reducing stimulus that has fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. The currency has slumped 16 percent in
the past six months, benefiting exports of everything from sugar
to rice and tea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  