-- College Costs Will Keep Rising Under Obama Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-08-22T21:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/college-costs-will-keep-rising-under-obama-plan.html
Colleges’ exploitation of young
Americans through rapidly rising and increasingly exorbitant
fees is a national scandal that can no longer be ignored. In his
college tour this week, President  Barack Obama  is speaking at
length about what he intends to do about it, after promising
“tough love” on higher education for the last two years.  Some of what he proposes is good in principle; some is  very
bad.   He wants to expand  access  to information on colleges by
having the Department of Education issue a ranking of
institutions relating outcomes to costs. The government has the
power, via the  Internal Revenue Service , to get some interesting
data on college graduates’ earnings, and providing that data to
consumers would be useful. Even independent college rankings --
such as those published by U.S. News & World Report and Forbes
(the latter compiled by my Center for College Affordability and
Productivity) -- could be improved with more data.  Tying federal funding after 2018 to the new federal
ratings, which in turn incorporate performance measures such as
graduation rates, may be a step toward giving colleges
incentives to take cost reduction seriously. But the potential
for unintended and damaging consequences is high: If the key to
federal funding is raising graduation rates, colleges may lower
already abysmally low standards.  Similarly, the proposed funds for promoting educational
innovation are, in principle, a good idea. But previous federal
education spending in this area has had a pretty dismal result.  Easy Money  Without any federal aid at all, cheap or free online
courses are appearing all over. The accrediting agencies will
probably try to stall this innovation, because it isn’t
controlled by their member universities. A better approach would
be to reconsider federal sanctioning of assistance to
unaccredited schools, for example.  The president’s proposal has one very bad idea: a
forgiveness boon for those paying off loans right now. The
proposal, limiting loan payments to 10 percent of income,
potentially relieves millions of students from repaying part of
their obligation. So why not major in fields the economy values
least -- anthropology or drama instead of engineering or math --
if you don’t have to worry about earning enough to pay off your
 student loans  over a certain period?  The idea simply raises incentives for future students to
borrow more money, if they know their obligation to pay it back
is capped. That, in turn, allows colleges to keep raising costs.  Obama proposes to ignore or worsen the root cause of much
of the explosion in student costs: the federal financial
assistance programs that encourage schools to raise costs and
that haven’t achieved their goals of providing college access to
low-income Americans.  Two recent studies highlight the problem. First, the
National Center for Education Statistics released  data 
suggesting that federal college financing is growing rapidly.
Now 84 percent of full-time undergraduate students get some aid.
Average grant assistance for dependent full-time undergraduate
students (unmarried, younger than 24) was $10,600 in 2011-12, up
34 percent in just four years -- four times the inflation rate.  Middle-class kids who were previously denied Pell grant aid
are now increasingly getting it: In 2011, 17.5 percent of
dependent students from families with $60,000 to $80,000 in
annual income received Pells, compared with a mere 1.6 percent
just four years earlier. A number of federal aid programs -- for
example, tuition tax credits and the PLUS loan program -- now
disproportionately serve students from relatively affluent
families. According to  College Board   data , total federal student
financial assistance programs totaled $56.8 billion in
2001-2002, compared with $173.8 billion a decade later, an
astonishing compounded annual rate of increase of 11.7 percent.  Increased Spending  A new  study  by Dennis Epple, Richard Romano, Sinan Sarpca
and Holger Sieg for the National Bureau of  Economic Research 
suggests that the impact of these aid programs is clearly
different from what federal policy makers intended. “We show
that private colleges game the federal financial aid system,”
they conclude. Every dollar in new financial aid to students
leads to about 40 cents less spent by the colleges on
institutional financial aid -- so students benefit far less than
federal policy makers intended.  In 1987, Secretary of Education William Bennett argued that
more federal aid leads to higher tuitions, enabling schools to
increase spending. This seems broadly consistent with the latest
research results. The net attendance impact of these federal
programs, according to the study for NBER, is “modest.” In
short, these programs haven’t substantially spurred student
access to colleges, all the while burdening taxpayers and
student borrowers.  The ballooning federal aid increases schools’ spending. The
researchers don’t analyze changes in university spending, but an
examination of other evidence suggests that money isn’t going
primarily into improving instruction. Colleges have gone on a
building spree (financed in part by amassing large debt -- more
than $220 billion at schools whose bonds are rated by Moody’s
alone), and pay and perquisites for top university
administrators has risen sharply.  Obama’s “tough love” on higher education should begin by
reversing the financial aid explosion that has contributed to
this spending binge and, more importantly, to the system that
has produced a generation of young debtors with mediocre job
prospects. The president is looking at the tip of the iceberg,
not its bigger base.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, teaches economics at Ohio
University, and is an adjunct scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 