-- Colony American Becomes Lender to Other Housing Landlords
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/colony-american-becomes-lender-to-other-housing-landlords.html
Colony American Homes Inc. (CAHS) , a
single-family rental company founded by Thomas Barrack Jr., is
starting to lend to other landlords.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based firm, which has about 15,000
houses, began offering loans in July and is targeting rental-property owners seeking $5 million to $10 million in financing,
said Todd Sammann, who runs Colony’s single-family lending arm.
The company intends to originate as much as $2 billion in debt
during its first year, with potential to do more, including
loans of as much as $100 million, he said.  “Colony’s operational expertise and capital-markets
background position us well to play a meaningful role in the
industry’s consolidation, which we expect to grow as the market
evolves,” Sammann said in an e-mail yesterday.  Hedge funds , private-equity firms and real estate
investment trusts have raised more than $18 billion and bought
more than 100,000 houses, betting on rising demand for rental
properties as the U.S. homeownership  rate  is at its lowest level
in 18 years. These investors are creating a new institutional
asset class from what had been a mom-and-pop industry.  “This shows how underserved the middle market and smaller
operators are in getting good debt,” said Dennis Cisterna, co-head of the opportunistic-finance division at  Irvine ,
California-based Johnson Capital, which has arranged more than
$125 million of loans to rental investors and has worked with
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Cerberus Capital Management LP. “And
they make up a much bigger percentage of the whole pie.”  ‘Great Terms’  JWB Real Estate Capital LLC, an investment firm with more
than 200 rental houses, expects to receive a $3.9 million loan
on 54 properties from Colony within a month, according to Alex
Sifakis, president of the Jacksonville, Florida-based company.  “They had great terms, slightly better than their
competitors,” he said in a telephone interview. “We’re dumping
the money right back into the market. It’s a buying opportunity
right now.”  Colony, which is offering five-year terms with fixed
 interest rates  between 6 percent and 7 percent, is structuring
its rental-home lending as separate loans on each property,
which may make it possible to sell bonds tied to the mortgages
and increase potential returns, a market that  Wall Street  is
trying to create.  “We’re confident that demand exists somewhere in the cross
section of the CMBS, ABS and RMBS investors,” Sammann said,
referring to buyers of commercial mortgage, asset and
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Providing nonrecourse debt to landlords will be a catalyst
for consolidation among single-family rental investors,
according to Sammann. Nonrecourse loans allow lenders to seize
the collateral backing the debt and no other assets should a
borrower default.  Blackstone, Cerberus  Blackstone, the largest single-family landlord, with more
than $5 billion spent on 32,000 homes, started a unit called B2R
Finance LP that’s offering floating-rate loans starting at $10
million for investors. Cerberus, the private-equity firm led by
Steve Feinberg, started First Key Lending this year to lend
“billions of dollars” through fixed-rate loans, Eric Atlas,
First Key senior vice president, said during an April forum in
Miami.  Regional lenders were the primary source of financing for
landlords buying properties prior to the housing crash. More
than 500 banks have failed since the real-estate collapse,
according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Government-backed lender  Fannie Mae  limits loans to 10 properties per
borrower, while  Freddie Mac  has a four-home limit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  