-- Congo Civilians, UN Hit by Fight Between Army and Rebels in East
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-08-22T17:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/congo-civilians-un-hit-by-fight-between-army-and-rebels-in-east.html
Mortars from clashes between
 Democratic Republic  of Congo’s army and M23 rebels hit  United
Nations  peacekeeping positions and injured civilians in the
eastern North Kivu province, the UN and a witness said.  Fighting between the M23 and Congo’s army began yesterday
and continued today in Kibati, about 15 miles (24 kilometers)
north of Goma, the capital of North Kivu, the UN mission in
Congo said in an e-mailed statement.  “Populated areas and UN positions were directly targeted
by mortars and hit by indiscriminate fire,” according to the
statement. Mission chief Martin Kobler ordered peacekeepers “to
react and to take necessary action to protect civilians and
prevent an advance by the M23.”  M23 rebels deserted the national army last year after a
2009 peace agreement fell apart. The fighters captured Goma, a
regional trading hub, for 11 days in November before withdrawing
under international pressure and beginning peace talks with the
government.  The rebel group today called for an end to the fighting and
the resumption of talks in an e-mailed statement. A spokesman
for Congo’s army, Colonel Olivier Hamuli, didn’t answer his
phone when called for comment.  At least five mortar shells landed in Goma during the
fighting, Fidel Bafilemba, a researcher for the Washington,
D.C.-based  Enough Project , said by phone from the city.  Women Injured  “I saw one drop behind the University of Goma as I was
driving,” he said. “Everyone was freaking out and fleeing to
their homes.”  Three women were injured in one of the blasts and were
taken to the hospital, Bafilemba said.  One shell landed across the border in neighboring  Rwanda  in
the village of Bugu, according to a statement from the Rwandan
Ministry of Defense. The ministry accused the Congolese army of
deliberately firing into Rwandan territory.  Congo and UN experts say Rwanda has backed the M23
rebellion. Rwanda denies the charges.  More than 1.6 million people have been forced to flee their
homes due to conflict in North Kivu and South Kivu provinces,
according to the UN’s Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  