-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Declined Last Week to Two-Month Low
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-22T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-declined-last-week-to-two-month-low.html
Consumer confidence  fell last week
to the lowest level in two months as Americans’ views on the
economy deteriorated.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  fell to minus 28.8 for
the period ended Aug. 18 from minus 26.6. The two-week decrease
from a more than five-year high reached in early August has been
the steepest in a year. The monthly Bloomberg consumer economic
 expectations  gauge held in August at minus 5, a five-month low.  Household sentiment is struggling to gain momentum amid
unsteady progress in the job market, rising interest rates and
fluctuating fuel costs. At the same time, rising home values are
bolstering Americans’ personal wealth and supporting  consumer
spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “The lagged impact of rising gasoline prices and slower
job growth are likely the primary causes the behind the
stagnation in overall consumer comfort,” said  Joseph Brusuelas ,
a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  All three components of the index lost ground last week,
with measures of the buying climate and personal  finances 
reaching their lowest levels since June.  The measure on current views on the economy declined to
minus 52.6 from minus 47.2, the biggest one-week drop since May
2012. The gauge had climbed to a more than five-year high
earlier this month.  The index of Americans’ views of their personal finances
eased to 3 last week from 3.2. Nonetheless, the measure has been
positive for 19 consecutive weeks. The  buying climate  gauge
worsened to minus 36.7 from minus 35.8, meaning fewer consumers
said the time was right to buy needed items.  Expectations Gauge  The monthly expectations gauge showed 33 percent of
consumers reporting the economy getting worse and 28 percent
saying it’s improving.  The weekly index is “clinging to the recovery zone it
first reached in mid-April, but with no sustained forward
momentum since then,” said  Gary Langer , president of Langer
Research Associates LLC in New York, which produces the data for
Bloomberg. “For the second month straight, significantly more
Americans see the economy as worsening than as improving - not a
bright outlook for the future.”  Another report today showed first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  over the past month declined to the lowest
level in more than five years. The  four-week average  number of
applications dropped to 330,500, the least since November 2007,
the Labor Department said. Compared with a week earlier, claims
rose by 13,000 to 336,000.  Stocks rose after the figures and on better-than-estimated
manufacturing data from Germany and  China . The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 0.4 percent to 1,648.75 at 9:35 a.m. in New
York.  Other Measures  The Bloomberg comfort index has anticipated changes in
other sentiment measures, reaching a five-year high in mid-April, a month before the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
 gauge .  The Conference Board’s confidence  index  declined more than
forecast in July to 80.3 after reaching a five-year high of 82.1
a month earlier.  Labor Department data earlier this month showed uneven
improvement in the job market as employers added fewer workers
than forecast in July. Payrolls rose by 162,000, the least in
four months, and the  unemployment  rate fell to a four-year low
of 7.4 percent as more Americans found part-time work.  Today’s comfort index continued to show a divergence
between Democrats and Republicans, with sentiment among
Republicans at minus 30.5 and Democrats at minus 9.8, the third
time in 12 years the measure has been better than minus 10.  Obama Economy  As President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, approaches the
halfway point of his second term, 54 percent of Republicans say
the economy is getting worse, compared with 20 percent of
Democrats.  The less-than-feared impact of federal government budget
cuts and improved financial outlook in the states could be
giving a boost to government workers, many of whom are unionized
and who more often vote as Democrats, Brusuelas said.  The  Internal Revenue Service  this month said it would delay
a furlough day for employees scheduled for Aug. 30, citing
“substantial progress in cutting costs.” The Pentagon this
month also reduced the number of furlough days to six from 11
for similar reasons.  “The slowing of fiscal restraint around much of the
country and outright end in some states and municipalities has
likely bolstered the spirits of public-sector workers and is
likely one of the main causes of the improvement in consumer
sentiment among those that self-identify as Democrats,” he
said.  Income Groups  There were few discernible trends among income groups last
week. The comfort index for consumers at the very top of the
income scale, households earning more than $100,000, was
positive for the 29th straight week. It eased to 18.8 from 22.1
the prior week, which was the highest since November 2007. The
measure for the lowest-income households, those earning less
than $15,000, fell to minus 48 percent from minus 47.7 percent.  Among part-time workers, the index decreased to minus 43.9,
the worst reading since mid-June, from minus 38.5. For those
employed full time, the gauge improved to minus 14.9 from minus
15.1.  The outlook among men deteriorated to minus 21.9 from minus
16.5, while confidence among women improved to minus 35.2 from
minus 36.  Some retailers are feeling the effects of household
caution.  Target Corp. (TGT)  yesterday joined  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  in reporting lower-than-expected results as a bumpy
economy and increased taxes caused consumers to cut back on
clothing and other merchandise.  ‘Cautious Spending’  “For the balance of this year, our U.S. outlook envisions
continued cautious spending by consumers in the face of ongoing
household budget pressures,” Target Chief Executive Officer
Gregg Steinhafel said in a statement.  By contrast, Home Depot Inc. and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  are enjoying a
recovery in housing, with second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index conducts telephone
surveys with a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and
older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on
the  U.S. economy , personal finances and buying climate. The
margin of error for the headline figure is 3 percentage points.
The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  