-- Cosan Shareholder May Build $150 Million Paraguay Ethanol Mill
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-08-22T14:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/cosan-shareholder-may-build-150-million-paraguay-ethanol-mill.html
Roberto Rezende Barbosa, one of the
largest shareholders in Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, is
considering building a $150 million ethanol mill in  Paraguay ,
where profits are higher than in  Brazil .  “Paraguay is a free market and because there’s no price
control there we can actually make money from sugar-cane
processing,” Barbosa said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo yesterday. “The costs are more convenient.”  Rezende Barbosa may expand into neighboring Paraguay as
Brazilian state-controlled oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA
sells gasoline at subsidized prices, “putting a bridle” on
ethanol, an alternative fuel that is sold at a loss by sugar-cane processors, he said.  Cars in Paraguay and Brazil can run on pure ethanol or a
mixture composed of 25 percent ethanol and the rest gasoline, he
said. Ethanol is sold in Paraguay for almost twice as much on
average as in Brazil, he said. Cosan doesn’t own mills in
Paraguay.  Rezende Barbosa and his brothers hold a 10.9 percent stake
in Cosan, which co-owns the world’s largest sugar-cane processor
with  Royal Dutch Sell Plc. (RDSA)  Rezende Barbosa and his brothers Jose
Eugenio and Renato Eugenio are jointly the largest holders in
Cosan after Brazilian billionaire Rubens Ometto, according to
information on the company’s website.  Rezende Barbosa and local partners, whom he declined to
identify, are conducting economic viability studies to build a
sugar-cane mill in Paraguay’s San Pedro state. The mill would
process 1.5 million tons of cane and produce as much as 40
million liters (10.1 million gallons) of ethanol and 100,000
tons of sugar a year, Rezende Barbosa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  