-- Court Orders Mubarak Release as Islamist Leaders Arrested
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-08-22T11:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/court-orders-mubarak-release-as-islamist-leaders-arrested.html
Egypt’s longtime autocrat  Hosni Mubarak  may be released from prison as early as today after a
court ordered him freed, while authorities arrested the Muslim
Brotherhood’s spokesman amid a crackdown on the group.  Mubarak would be placed under house arrest under a decision
issued late last night by the interim government. That move may
have been designed to mitigate outrage if Mubarak was to be
allowed to go entirely free pending charges still being heard in
court.  While Mubarak is unlikely to find a place in the new
political order, his release would inject more tension into the
violent standoff between the Muslim Brotherhood and the
government the military installed after deposing President
Mohamed Mursi last month. Freedom for Mubarak would also provide
ammunition to those who accuse  Egypt ’s leaders of seeking to
restore the kind of police state Mubarak led before he was
overthrown in 2011.  “The timing is very bad because we’re already caught up in
numerous confrontations, so the last thing that Egypt needs is
bringing the Mubarak issue out,” Ziad Akl, a researcher at the
Cairo-based Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies,
said by phone. “The main concern that the release of Mubarak
will lead to the return of the old regime is quite nonsense. The
old regime is basically dead.”  Egypt’s cabinet said in a note to reporters that Mubarak
was ordered to be held under house arrest. It was not
immediately clear where he would be held if he was released --
either at home or in a hospital given the persistent reports of
his ailing health.  More Arrests  The development came as the government pressed ahead with
its targeting of Brotherhood officials, an effort that has seen
its supreme guide and other senior leaders swept up. In the
latest move, authorities arrested Ahmed Aref, the group’s
spokesman, Assistant Interior Minister Abdel-Fatah Othman said.
Aref was detained in an apartment in the Cairo district where
the Brotherhood had held a sit-in whose break-up on Aug. 14
triggered a wave of violence that killed more than 900 people.  The struggle is raising the cost of financing the budget
gap and leaving little room for the government to spur growth.  Market Turmoil  Yields on local-currency debt are rising from two-year lows
hit after Mursi’s ouster. Egypt sold one-year notes at an
average 12.86 percent this week, more than twice what Lebanon
pays for its local debt. The budget gap may widen to 12 percent
by year-end from 11 percent in 2012, according to the average of
11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the highest among 65
countries it tracks.  The order to free Mubarak does not stop pending trials on
other charges against him, including his alleged role in the
deaths of protesters in the uprising that swept him from power.
He is facing a retrial in that case after a court overturned an
earlier life sentence against him.  Mubarak’s ouster had fed hopes in some quarters that Egypt
would emerge from his three decades of rule a more prosperous
and democratic nation. During Mursi’s year in office, divisions
widened, with critics accusing him of cementing the power of his
Brotherhood backers at the expense of the nation’s welfare.  Days of mass demonstrations against him culminated in
Mursi’s removal. His Brotherhood supporters have refused to
accept that, and the nation has been mired in violence.  The military-backed government imposed a monthlong state of
emergency on Aug. 14 and a nighttime curfew. Protests have also
been quelled for the time being, though Mursi’s supporters have
called for new rallies on Aug. 23, Al Arabiya television
reported.  Sluggish Growth  The tumult has made it more difficult for Egypt to reverse
the slowdown that has battered the economy since Mubarak’s
overthrow. Growth is at its most sluggish in two decades.  State-run Nile News said Mubarak could be freed today,
citing his lawyer. Farid ElDib, Mubarak’s lawyer, couldn’t be
reached on his mobile phone. The deposed president has been
placed on a travel ban list, the prosecutor-general’s office
said in a statement.  “Mubarak has politically ended, he doesn’t pose any
threat,” Abdel-Ghaffar Shukr, a senior member of the main
coalition that opposed Mursi, the National Salvation Front, said
by phone. “Just like Mubarak used the Muslim Brotherhood as a
scarecrow to suppress the opposition and the popular uprising
against him, now the Muslim Brotherhood is trying to use Mubarak
to scare people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  