-- Cuomo’s N.Y. Budget Performance Draws Moody’s Affirmation
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-23T04:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/cuomo-budget-victories-earn-positive-n-y-outlook-from-moody-s.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s three
straight on-time budgets, which cut more than $13 billion in
deficits, raised New York’s credit outlook to positive at
Moody’s Investors Service.  The company’s Aa2 rating, third highest, on the state’s
general-obligation debt may rise if Cuomo, 55, and the
legislature can keep passing balanced budgets on time, Moody’s
said yesterday. In March, lawmakers approved a third consecutive
spending plan before the April 1 deadline for the first time
since 1984. The Democrat took office in January 2011.  The positive outlook “is another strong affirmation of the
progress we have made to put New York’s fiscal house in order,”
Cuomo said in a statement. “After years of late budgets and
legislative gridlock, we have been able to show that New York
State is working again.”  The change by Moody’s, from a stable outlook on the state,
follows a similar move by  Standard & Poor’s  last year, when it
put New York on notice that it may score its highest  credit
rating  since 1972 by passing a fourth straight on-time budget.
Cuomo, who’s seeking re-election next year, closed deficits in
part by getting unions to agree to wage freezes. Moody’s also
cited the state’s well-funded pensions in its statement.  New York general-obligation bonds maturing in March 2027
traded at an average yield of 3.48 percent yesterday, 0.09
percentage point below a benchmark  index  of debt with similar
maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a reversal
from when the bonds priced March 7 at an average yield of 2.44
percent, 0.16 percentage points above the index, as investors
demanded more yield than top-rated securities to buy the debt.  Securities sold by issuers in the state of  New York  are
losing value at a slower pace than the broader $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market. Bonds issued in New York have lost 4.7
percent in 2013 compared with 4.94 percent for the muni market,
S&P total return data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net  