-- Daily Journal Tells SEC Munger Knows Best Buying Stocks
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-22T18:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/daily-journal-tells-sec-munger-knows-best-buying-stocks.html
Charles Munger’s  Daily Journal Corp. (DJCO) 
told regulators that selling Treasuries and jumping into stocks
was the safe move for the publisher in the financial crisis.  “The board recognized that this decision would be contrary
to the conventional (but questionable) notion that the least
risky way to preserve corporate capital for the long-term
benefit of stockholders is to invest it in  government bonds  at
 interest rates  approximating zero,” an attorney for Los
Angeles-based Daily Journal wrote in a March 18 letter made
public today.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February
questioned why the publisher shouldn’t be considered an
 investment company  given the “high percentage” of total assets
that were in marketable securities. Such a designation could
subject the publisher of California Lawyer magazine and 10
newspapers to some of the regulations imposed on mutual funds.  Munger, 89, best known as  Warren Buffett ’s longtime
business partner, helped  triple  Daily Journal’s value since 2008
by reallocating the company’s investments. The publisher
initially benefited from the housing slump and deepest U.S.
recession since the 1930s because it earned  revenue  from
publishing foreclosure notices, the company said in its letter.  Still, the board recognized that Daily Journal needed a
long-term plan to protect the company from deterioration in its
newspaper publishing business, provide an  asset base  for future
takeovers and build a net worth that would allow its software
unit to bid on government contracts, according to the letter.  The publisher said it shouldn’t qualify as an in investment
company, in part because none of its officers spend time
overseeing the portfolio.  ‘Little Time’  “Two of the company’s directors, Charles Munger and J.P. Guerin, selected the securities which, given their experience
and knowledge of investing, required very little time,” Daily
Journal said in the letter. “Also, there have been only
purchases and no sales, so no time has been spent trading or
‘managing’ these marketable securities.” Guerin is the
company’s vice chairman.  The SEC said in a July letter that it had completed its
review of Daily Journal, and that its comments don’t limit
future action. Such correspondence is typically released after
the exchange is finished.  Daily Journal’s stock bets have soared in recent years and
accounted for about 70 percent of the publisher’s $173.8 million
of assets at the end of June. Much of that gain can probably be
traced to bets on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to investors who
attended the publisher’s annual meetings. The largest U.S. home
lender has climbed more than five-fold since its 2009 low and is
the top holding at Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Buffett, 82, has shunned bonds in recent years and said his
preference is to buy stocks and whole companies. In February
2012, he told Berkshire investors that Treasuries were among the
 “most dangerous”  of assets because low interest rates don’t
compensate investors for the risk of inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  