-- Defunding of Health Law Backed by 80 House Republicans
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-08-22T22:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/defunding-of-health-law-backed-by-80-house-republicans.html
Eighty Republicans in the U.S. House
have signed a letter urging their leadership to support efforts
to withhold money to implement President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law from must-pass legislation to keep the government
running after Oct. 1.  That’s short of the “majority of the majority,” which has
become a benchmark for consensus by the 233 Republicans who
control the chamber.  “We urge you to affirmatively defund the implementation
and enforcement of ObamaCare in any relevant appropriations
bills brought to the House floor” in the current Congress
“including any continuing appropriations bill,” said the
 letter  to Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  The House has voted 40 times to repeal or revise the
health-care law, which the letter said “remains broadly
unpopular across America,” according to the the letter
circulated by freshman North Carolina Republican Mark Meadows.  The Obama administration in the past has threatened to veto
legislation that would withhold money for carrying out the
health-care law, raising the specter of a showdown between the
Republican-run House and Obama over legislation to finance the
government after the new fiscal year starts Oct. 1.  ‘Dumbest Idea’  Republicans are divided on the political wisdom of
threatening a government shutdown over the issue. North
Carolina’s Republican Senator  Richard Burr  called it “the
dumbest idea I’ve ever heard of.”  Cantor suggested in an Aug. 9  interview  with the National
Review Online that such a strategy wasn’t realistic.  “In order to avoid a government shutdown, we need 60 votes
in the Senate and 218 votes in the House to pass a continuing
resolution,” he said, referring to short-term legislation to
fund the government.  “To get 60 votes in the Senate, you need at least 14
Democrats to join Republicans and pass a CR that defunds
Obamacare,” he said. “Right now, I am not aware of a single
Democrat in the Senate who would join us.”  Two freshmen Republican senators,  Mike Lee  of Utah and  Ted Cruz  of Texas, are championing the idea of stopping funding for
the health-care law through the appropriations process. This
week,  Pat Roberts  of Kansas became the 14th Senate Republican to
sign a  letter  being circulated by Lee that’s similar to the one
by Meadows, said Lee’s spokesman Brian Phillips.  Radio Ads  The  Senate Conservatives Fund  began airing radio ads this
week to pressure Burr and South Carolina Republican  Senator
Lindsey Graham  to drop their opposition to using appropriations
to squelch funding for the health law. The political action
group announced it was airing airing radio spots to tell voters
that Republican senators  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee,  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia and  Thad Cochran  of Mississippi have refused
“join the fight” to defund the health-care law.  In an e-mail, the press office for House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi , citing a  news report  about a Republican-commissioned poll, said 71 percent of voters “overwhelmingly
oppose this foolish, dangerous idea” to shut down the
government to stop implementation of the health law.  Among Republicans surveyed, 53 percent opposed to the idea
of “shutting down the government as a way to defund the
president’s health-care law,” according to the Washington
Examiner.  Dan Holler, a spokesman for  Heritage Action for America ,
which is promoting the effort to stop the health law funding,
disputed the poll’s methodology. Holler, in a statement, said
the question misrepresented the strategy “which has always been
to actively defund Obamacare, not shut down the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  