-- Disney’s ESPN Steps Up Its Game to Meet Fox Network’s Challenge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/disney-s-espn-steps-up-its-game-as-new-fox-network-takes-field.html
Walt  Disney (DIS)  Co.’s ESPN, which 
bills itself as “the worldwide leader in sports,” is meeting 
Fox Sports 1’s challenge with additional shows, broader online 
offerings and a new studio.  The  Fox network  debuted Aug. 17, as  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) 
takes aim at Disney’s most profitable business. ESPN, which
was watched in more than twice as many homes last weekend,
invited reporters to its Bristol, Connecticut, headquarters 
on Aug. 21 to show off its changes.  ESPN accounts for about 70 percent of the $5.7 billion in
 operating income  Disney reported from its cable networks in
fiscal 2012, according to  Martin Pyykkonen , a Wedge Partners
analyst. Margins at the sports network have peaked at mid-40
percent, as it will be hard for ESPN to keep raising ad rates
and fees from cable and satellite TV providers, he said.  “If Fox Sports 1 kicks into high gear then there could be
further margin impact and ad spend shifting somewhat away from
ESPN,” Pyykkonen, who is based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado ,
and doesn’t rate shares of Burbank, California-based Disney,
said in an e-mail. “But that’s a big if at this moment.”  Fox Sports 1 averaged 627,000 homes tuning in during prime
time on the Aug. 17-18 weekend, according to data from Nielsen.
ESPN averaged 1.7 million homes.  To keep Fox Sports 1 at bay, the Disney sports network is
making changes including rehiring former ESPN host  Keith Olbermann , whose new show for the ESPN2 network starts airing
Aug. 26. “Olbermann’” will be on at the same time as the ESPN
channel’s “SportsCenter” news show on weeknights.  “Our goal is to have the most significant competition for
ESPN come from ESPN,” John Skipper, the network’s president,
said at an Aug. 21 press conference.  ‘Football Nerds’  ESPN is also expanding its “College GameDay” football
preview program to three hours from two on Saturdays, and has
introduced “NFL Insiders,” a weekday afternoon program that
Seth Markman, who supervises NFL coverage, said will focus on
news about players and teams for “football nerds.”  The network is hiring reporters to cover each of the
 National Football League ’s 32 teams for online and TV, according
to Rob King, who heads ESPN’s digital media efforts. In October,
it will begin converting users of its ESPN ScoreCenter mobile
application to a new app called SportsCenter that will offer
customizable statistics, videos, news and social networking.
ScoreCenter has been downloaded 45 million times, King said.  Early next year, ESPN will open the new studio for the
“SportsCenter” program. At 10,000 square feet (929 square
meters), the studio is more than twice the size of the current
one. It will feature multiple anchor desks as well as screens
that hosts can use to stop video highlights or enlarge
statistics.  SEC Network  “With full screens and graphics, for us to be able to
motion at something specifically for a point that we’re trying
to make, it’s just more conversational with the viewers,” said
Lindsay Czarniak, a “SportsCenter” anchor.  ESPN will add a channel in 2014 called the SEC Network
that will feature Southeastern Conference college sports. The
14 schools, including the  University of Alabama  and  Texas A&M
University , account for 38 percent of game-day viewers, while 
no other conference gets more than 11 percent, said Lee Fitting,
who produces “College GameDay.”  “Our ratings research tells us there’s never too much
SEC,” he said.  Steve Levy, a “SportsCenter” anchor since 1993, said the
competition from Fox has energized him and his colleagues.  “If you’ve seen me the last three nights, I’m absolutely
more pumped up,” he said. “A lot of us got into my end of the
business because we can’t play sports, or play not well, but
that doesn’t mean we’re any less competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  