-- Dollar-Funding Pressures Steady, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-22T13:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/dollar-funding-pressures-steady-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled little change in short-term dollar funding conditions.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
 held  at 0.26210 percent for a third day, the lowest level since
Aug. 1, 2011, according to the British Bankers’ Association.
Libor is what banks say it would cost to borrow from one
another. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to
lend, was little changed at 15.8 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The U.S. central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 18 basis points from 18.8 basis
points, according to the second rolling three-month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.4 basis points to 19.02 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $15.9 billion to $1.0041 trillion in the week ended Aug.
14, according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollar-based funding via the cross currency
swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 9.7 basis points below Euribor, compared to 9.3 basis
points below yesterday.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 12.4
basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.03 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.017 percent yesterday,
according to a GCF repo index provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.08 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.1 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 liedtka@bloomberg.net  