-- Leading Index Signals U.S. Growth to Pick Up Into 2014
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-22T20:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-climbed-0-6-in-july.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
climbed in July by the most in three months, signaling
improvements in housing and labor markets will help foster
faster economic growth through year-end.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.6 percent after no change in
June, the New York-based group said today. Another report showed
the fewest Americans since November 2007 filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  in the past month.  The increase in the leading index was propelled by the drop
in firings, rising stock prices and a thawing in lending that
all point to a pickup in  consumer spending . More sales of
appliances and home-improvement merchandise at retailers such as
Home Depot Inc. and Lowe’s Cos. show the recovery in housing is
filtering through to other parts of the economy.  “One of the big underpinnings is obviously the housing
market,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Economists at Wells
Fargo are the best forecasters of the LEI in the last two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The leading indicators
are “consistent with the outlook for gradual improvement in the
 U.S. economy .”  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rebounding from a six-week low, on better-than-estimated global
manufacturing data. The  S&P 500  advanced 0.9 percent to 1,656.95
at the close in  New York .  Global Manufacturing  Chinese manufacturing resumed expansion this month after
shrinking in July by the most in almost a year and output at
European factories and services companies improved, other
reports today showed.  Signs that global demand is stabilizing and an improving
outlook in the U.S. are encouraging American employers to
maintain headcount. Labor Department figures today showed the
number of claims for jobless benefits in the month ended Aug. 17
declined by 2,300 to 330,500 a week on average, the least in
more than five years.  The four-week moving average is a less volatile measure
than the weekly figures, and is considered a better gauge of the
trend in applications. Compared with a week earlier,
applications rose by 13,000 to 336,000.  There is “legitimate improvement in the labor market,”
said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “It’s more important to put the
emphasis on the trend in claims, which remains favorable.”  August Employment  Last week included the 12th of the month, which coincides
with the period the Labor Department surveys employers to
calculate monthly payroll data. The four-week average was down
from the 346,500 average during the comparable period in July.
The employment report for August will be released on Sept. 6.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 42 economists
for the leading economic indicators index called for a 0.5
percent advance. Estimates ranged from increases of 0.2 percent
to 0.7 percent.  Eight of the 10 indicators in the leading index
strengthened in July, led by a widening gap between long- and
short-term  interest rates , higher stocks and more building
permits. Fewer jobless claims and gains in factory orders also
propelled the leading index last month.  The report also showed that loans are becoming easier to
get. The increase in the Conference Board’s proprietary credit
index, which takes into account reports such as the  Federal
Reserve ’s loan officer survey and investor sentiment, matched
the gain in February 2011 as the biggest since January 2004.  Second Half  The improvement indicates “better economic and job growth
in the second half of 2013,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the
Conference Board, said in a statement. “However, the biggest
uncertainties remain the pace of business spending and the
impact of slower global growth on U.S. exports.”  Strength in the housing market is contributing to economic
growth and bolstering sales at home-improvement retailers such
as Lowe’s and Home Depot. Both companies reported earnings this
week that beat analysts’ estimates and raised their profit
forecasts for 2013.  Higher  home prices , which have boosted household net worth,
are propelling demand for appliances and other big-ticket items
that Americans were reluctant to buy in the housing downturn,
Lowe’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said yesterday.  “Our second quarter sales performance exceeded our
expectations, due in part to strong demand for appliances and
recovery in our garden department,” Carol B. Tome, chief
financial officer at Atlanta-based Home Depot, said on an Aug.
20 earnings call.  Federal Reserve  Fed policy makers are gauging the strength of the economy
as they debate dialing back record monetary stimulus. Minutes
from the Fed’s July 30-31 meeting showed officials “continued
to anticipate that the growth of real GDP would pick up somewhat
in the second half of 2013 and strengthen further thereafter.”  Policy makers considering reducing $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper this year if the expansion
strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed soon,
the minutes showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 Jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  