-- Echo Seeks Bigger Brisbane Casino as Packer Threatens in Sydney
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-22T14:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/echo-seeks-bigger-brisbane-casino-as-packer-threatens-in-sydney.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
facing a challenge to its exclusive Sydney casino license from
billionaire James Packer’s Crown Ltd., wants a bigger site in
Queensland’s state capital to target Asian gamblers.  Echo’s existing casinos in the state, in Brisbane, the Gold
Coast and Townsville, are too small to attract overseas
tourists, Chief Executive Officer John Redmond said in a phone
interview yesterday. Echo is in talks with Queensland’s
government about the Brisbane relocation, and the plan is a  key
priority  for the year to June, it said in a presentation.  Both Packer and Redmond are banking on  Australia  emulating
the performance of  Singapore , where large resorts opened by
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  had $5.2 billion
in sales last year. Echo wants to expand its Queensland sites as
Packer develops plans for a A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) Sydney
casino tower to attract high-rolling gamblers who wagered A$23.8
billion at Echo’s gaming tables last year.  “We don’t have a compelling enough offering to attract
people” to Echo’s sites in the Gold Coast and Brisbane, where
its hotel is housed inside the sandstone former state Treasury
building, Redmond said. “You need to build or develop something
at a scale that allows you to compete with the rest of the
world.”  Queensland’s Plans  Queensland, the nation’s most indebted state with a deficit
forecast at A$7.7 billion for the 12 months ending June, is
considering proposals for new casino resorts in the Gold Coast
and Cairns as a mining boom slows.  The state government is studying a project proposed by Hong
Kong-based businessman Tony Fung for a A$4.2 billion resort in
Cairns on the Great Barrier Reef with nine luxury hotels and
1,200 apartments. It’s also shortlisted bidders for a resort and
cruise ship terminal to add  A$750 million  of annual tourism
revenue to the Gold Coast.  The Gold Coast market isn’t big enough to support an
additional casino, Redmond, a former co-CEO at  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , said in an interview in April.  Revenue from Echo’s Queensland properties, which also
include a casino and conference center in the Great Barrier Reef
port of Townsville, fell 3.3 percent in the 12 months ended June
amid weak consumer sentiment, the company said.  The amount bet by VIP gamblers, high-rolling tourists who
receive perks and free travel in return for wagering tens of
thousands of dollars per trip, dropped 19 percent to A$1.88
billion during the year at its sites in the state, according to
the presentation. At the company’s Star property in Sydney, VIP
wagers rose 29 percent to A$22 billion.  Cost Cuts  The company was discussing internally how it would adjust
its spending plans in response to the threat from Crown, Redmond
said. Crown’s Sydney casino project, at the Barangaroo
development west of the city’s main business district, was last
month moved to the third stage of a state government approval
process, beating off competition from an Echo proposal to expand
its Star site.  The company aims to reduce costs by about A$60 million by
the end of next year as it seeks cash to fund capital spending.  With careful cost control, it’s possible to build a resort
for the Brisbane-Gold Coast region comparable to a A$2 billion
investment for about A$700 million, Redmond said on a conference
call in February.  Echo has set up a Hong Kong-based subsidiary to buy items
such as cutlery and furniture direct from  China  at a lower cost,
Redmond said.  “This stuff doesn’t bother me,” he said. “I’ve spent my
entire career in the most competitive market in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  