-- Techtronic Sees Oreck Acquisition to Make Money Next Year
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-22T13:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/techtronic-sees-oreck-acquisition-to-make-money-next-year.html
Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , maker of
Hoover vacuum cleaners, said it has completed its acquisition of
bankrupt rival Oreck Corp. and expects the  Nashville, Tennessee-based  company to make money next year.  Hong Kong-based Techtronic is hoping to turn the company
around by reducing expenses, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Galli Jr. said in an interview in the former British colony
today.  Galli’s company bought Oreck through an auction after the
U.S. vacuum cleaner maker had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Techtronic got about 73 percent of its sales last year from
 North America , where it sells brands from Hoover to Dirt Devil.  “We feel we bought it under very favourable conditions and
it will be highly accretive,” said Galli of the Oreck
acquisition. “It will make money in 2014.” He didn’t disclose
the price of the acquisition.  The company is keeping Oreck’s manufacturing in the U.S.,
said David Butts, executive vice president.  Techtronic yesterday  reported  a 23 percent gain in net
income to $118 million for the six months ended June, lagging
the $127.7 million average estimate of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Sales jumped 10 percent to $2 billion.  “There were some unneccessary expenses that we’ll be able
to eliminate,” Galli said without elaborating.  The company, whose competitors include  Stanley Black &
Decker Inc. (SWK)  and Japan’s  Makita Corp. (6586) , expects sales to grow at a
“strong single-digit” pace this year amid the economic
recovery in the U.S., Galli said. Techtronic plans to roll out
400 new products globally next year, he said.  Techtronic dropped 1.7 percent to HK$17.90 at the midday
break in  Hong Kong  trading, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index
lost 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net  