-- Egyptian Tomb Bat Narrows Hunt for Source of Killer Lung Virus
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-08-22T03:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/egyptian-tomb-bat-narrows-hunt-for-source-of-killer-lung-virus.html
An Egyptian tomb bat was found to
harbor a virus genetically identical to the one that caused so-called Middle East Respiratory Syndrome in at least 94 people,
killing half of them, scientists at  Columbia University  said.  The bat’s feces tested positive for the virus, known as
MERS coronavirus -- the first time researchers have been able to
pinpoint a specific animal host for the new pneumonia-causing
pathogen. The finding was  published  yesterday in the journal
 Emerging Infectious Diseases .  Researchers have been hunting for the natural reservoir of
the respiratory virus for months. Knowing which species is
responsible will inform strategies to control its spread.
Previous efforts had narrowed the search to bats, though none
had found an exact genetic match, said Ian Lipkin, director of
the Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia’s  Mailman
School of Public Health  in  New York , and a co-author of the
study.  “This is 100 percent identical,” Lipkin said in a
telephone interview. “If this is not the reservoir, it is
certainly a reservoir for MERS coronavirus.”  The droppings from the bat, known scientifically as
Taphozous perforatus, was collected a few kilometers from the
home of the first known victim of MERS coronavirus in  Saudi
Arabia .  Lipkin said his group is surveying other animal species
that might be acting as conduits of the virus from T.
perforatus, whose body is the size of an iPhone, to humans.
Viruses typically transmit from bats to humans via mammals that
are either genetically closer or have more opportunities of
exposure.  Civet Cats  In the case of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome,
10 years ago, civet cats probably carried the virus from bats to
humans. Lipkin will report work on camels, goats and sheep in
the next few weeks, he said.  Researchers from Columbia and the Saudi Arabian health
ministry collected more than 1,000 samples from seven bat
species in regions where cases of MERS were identified in Bisha,
Unaizah, and  Riyadh  over a six-week period during field
expeditions in October and April, Columbia said in a statement
on the study.  Since April 2012, 94 laboratory-confirmed human MERS cases
have been reported to the  World Health Organization , according
to an Aug. 13  report . Of those, 47 were fatal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  