-- Court Orders Mubarak Release as Islamist Leaders Arrested
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-23T13:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/egypt-s-mubarak-released-from-prison-after-court-order.html
Hundreds of people supporting
Mohamed Mursi held scattered marches across Egypt in an attempt
to keep pressure on authorities, who are rounding up their
leaders and putting them behind bars after a bloody crackdown
last week.  Holding photos of Mursi and waving Egyptian flags,
demonstrators moved through the Cairo and Giza districts of
Ramsis, Helwan and Haram, footage aired by Al Jazeera showed.
Mursi supporters also took to the streets in the governorates of
Aswan, Suez, Minya and Fayoum, state-run Ahram Online said.  The rallies are taking place against a political backdrop
made even more fraught by the release of  Hosni Mubarak  from
prison yesterday. It was a stunning development for many who
took part in the 2011 uprising that toppled him, and some
critics say Egypt’s current leadership, installed by the
military, is out to reprise the police state Mubarak once led.  Mubarak was transfered to military hospital in Cairo
yesterday, at a time when the country he once led is reeling
over the army’s removal of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mursi. About
1,000 people died in clashes touched off when security forces
stormed two pro-Mursi protest camps on Aug. 14, and Mubarak’s
release threatens to inflame the political crisis.  “We’re already caught up in numerous confrontations so the
last thing that  Egypt  needs is bringing the Mubarak issue out,”
Ziad Akl, a researcher at the Cairo-based Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies, said by phone. He said fears
that Mubarak’s release will somehow lead to the return of his
regime are “nonsense” because it is “basically dead.”  The Anti-Coup Alliance called on its supporters to join the
“Friday of Martyrs” marches that were called to depart from 28
mosques in Cairo and Giza after prayers. It wasn’t clear if
demonstrators were planning to gather at a particular focal
point in the capital, as they have in previous marches.  Prayers Canceled  The government declared a month long state of emergency
after it broke up the protest camps, and the rallies called for
today are to be the first mass gatherings of Mursi supporters in
days. The cabinet said in a note to reporters that Friday
prayers in two mosques in the areas of the dispersed sit-ins
were canceled so the buildings could be repaired.  The 2 1/2 years since Mubarak was toppled have been marked
by growing rifts, deepening poverty and eruptions of violence, a
far cry from the dreams of a better life that protesters had
when they ended his three-decade rule, demanding he be brought
to justice for abuses and corruption they say he committed.  Mubarak, 85, was freed from Torah prison a day after a
court ordered his release in relation to a case involving gifts
from a state-run organization. Other cases on which he was held,
including a retrial for his alleged role in the death of
protesters in 2011, will continue. He’s also standing trial on
corruption-related charges.  State-run Ahram Online said Mubarak had made a personal
request to be transfered to the Maadi Military hospital, citing
unidentified court officials. His travel ban remains in effect.  Pivotal Role  The Brotherhood, whose leadership has been rounded up since
Mursi’s July 3 ouster, says “remnants” of the old regime,
which barely tolerated the group, played a key role in deposing
Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected civilian president.  “Mubarak is free, while free men are imprisoned,” read a
post on the Twitter account of the main alliance backing Mursi.  Assistant Interior Minister Abdel-Fatah Othman said
authorities arrested Ahmed Aref, the Brotherhood’s spokesman.
The group’s spiritual leader, Mohamed Badie, was arrested
earlier this week, and hundreds of members are in custody.  The struggle is raising the cost of financing the budget
gap and leaving little room for the government to spur growth.  Yields on local-currency debt are rising from two-year lows
hit after Mursi’s ouster. Egypt sold one-year notes at an
average 12.86 percent this week, more than twice what Lebanon
pays for its local debt. The budget gap may widen to 12 percent
by year-end from 11 percent in 2012, according to the average of
11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the highest among 65
countries it tracks.  ‘Good Man’                         With the nation mired in turmoil, some people spoke up for
their former leader.  Mubarak is a “good man,” doorman Khaled Hassan said.
“This man loves the country and he had the courage to stay in
it when he had a chance to flee like others.”  Others held fast to the principles of the popular revolt
that forced him from office.  “With Mubarak’s release many of the men from his regime
will be emboldened to take part in politics, but that won’t
scare us away or stop us from standing up for our rights and
against tyranny,” Sarah Ahmed, 23, said in downtown Cairo,
shortly before Mubarak’s transfer to the military hospital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  