-- Heisman Winner Manziel Is Voted to Conference Second Team
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-22T19:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/heisman-winner-manziel-voted-second-team-conference-quarterback.html
The player picked as the best in
college football last season is only a second-team choice in his
own conference this year, according to a vote of rival coaches.  Johnny Manziel of  Texas A&M , who won the Heisman Trophy in
2012, was named the second-team quarterback on the preseason
 Southeastern Conference  squads announced today, behind the
University of Georgia’s Aaron Murray.  Manziel is under investigation by the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  over allegations that he violated rules by
accepting payments for autographs, according to ESPN. Texas A&M
coach Kevin Sumlin hasn’t said if Manziel will be the team’s
starting quarterback for its Aug. 31 season-opening game against
 Rice University .  Manziel led the SEC with 1,410 rushing yards and 21
touchdowns as a freshman last season, while also passing for
3,706 yards. He’s the first NCAA player with more than 5,000
total yards and 1,000 rushing yards in a season.  Murray, a senior, threw for a Georgia-record 3,893 yards
and 36 touchdowns last season, becoming the first in the SEC to
throw for at least 3,000 yards in three straight seasons.  A.J. McCarron, who led Alabama to last year’s national
championship, was selected as the conference’s third-team
quarterback. Alabama had 16 players named to preseason all-star
teams, including a league-high five first-team selections.  Louisiana State University  and Georgia both had eight
players recognized, while Florida and  Tennessee  had seven.  The Heisman Trophy, whose voters include media and past
winners, is awarded annually to recognize college football’s
best player, with Manziel the first freshman winner. The SEC
coaches pick the annual preseason all-conference teams and can’t
vote for players on their own squad. Vote totals weren’t
disclosed in a statement on the conference website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  