-- Telecom N.Z. Second-Half Earnings Decline Amid Pricing Pressure
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-22T22:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/telecom-n-z-second-half-earnings-decline-amid-pricing-pressure.html
Telecom Corp. of New Zealand , the
nation’s biggest provider of broadband services, said second-half earnings declined across much of the business after prices
came under pressure.  Operating profit fell 4.1 percent to NZ$537 million ($420
million) in the six months ended June 30, the Auckland-based
company said in a statement. Full-year operating profit was
little changed at NZ$1.04 billion, matching the average forecast
of analysts according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom is firing workers and cutting costs to adjust to a
new industry structure after it spun off its Chorus network unit
to become a retailer of mobile and fixed-line services. Full-time equivalent employees fell 12 percent at June 30 from Dec.
31, as the company sought to reduce operating costs.  “We were conscious these decisions would likely have a
negative impact on short-term operating revenues and margins and
incur a substantial restructuring charge,” Chairman Mark Verbiest said in the statement. “They have enhanced Telecom’s
position for the longer term by strengthening our customer base
and improving our cost competitiveness.”  Telecom took a NZ$101 million restructuring charge and a
further NZ$26 million of asset impairments in the full year. Net
income including these items fell 24 percent to NZ$238 million.  The company saw “encouraging signs” of growth in the
second half, even as earnings fell, Chief Executive Officer
Simon Moutter said.  It had 18,000 net new broadband connections in the six
months through June, holding market share at 48 percent
following several years of decline, after adjusting pricing
plans, Moutter said. Net mobile additions were 92,000 in the
second half, he said.  Still, mobile connections fell from a year ago after the
company closed an old, slower network.  Telecom didn’t make a 2013/14 earnings forecast, noting
that market consensus is for operating profit to be little
changed. It said the full-year dividend will be 16 cents a
share, unchanged from the year just finished.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  