-- Emerging ETF Rises on China Manufacturing as Sensex Jumps
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-22T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/emerging-stocks-decline-to-six-week-low-on-fed-as-rupee-slumps.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund advanced for the first time in six
days after a report showing expansion in  Chinese manufacturing 
bolstered the outlook for global economic growth.  The  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares added 1.6 percent
to $38.20 in  New York , the biggest gain in two weeks. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index fell 0.2 percent to 922.28, paring a
slump of as much as 1.2 percent. Benchmark gauges in  India ,
 Brazil  and  Russia  jumped more than 1.4 percent, led by commodity
shares.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  gained 10 percent in Mumbai as Nomura
Holdings Inc. raised its outlook on the industry, citing a weak
rupee. Petroleo Brasileiro SA rose to a two-month high in  Sao
Paulo , while Russian steelmakers rallied.  The MSCI BRIC Index of stocks in Brazil, Russia, India and
 China  rebounded from the lowest level in six weeks. Chinese
manufacturing resumed its expansion this month after shrinking
the most in almost a year in July and output at European
factories and services companies improved. The broad measure for
developing nations sank 13 percent this year amid concern that
the  Federal Reserve  will pare its stimulus measures.  “Emerging markets are still a source of global growth,”
Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama , said by phone.
Stocks in developing-nations “were so oversold that some money
came in to take advantage of the bounce,” he said.  The  gauge  of developing nations is trading at 9.8 times
estimated earnings, below the valuation of developed markets of
13.6. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 5.4 percent to 24.62.  Trading Halt  Computer breakdowns shook American equity markets again
today as malfunctioning software that feeds data between
exchanges prompted Nasdaq Stock Market to halt trading in
thousands of stocks and options. Trading in Nasdaq securities
resumed at around 3:25 p.m. in New York, the exchange said in a
statement on its website.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  rose for the first time in three days as
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA paced gains among Brazil’s
commodity exporters. Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known,
rallied as newspapers reported that the government will allow
the state-controlled oil producer to increase fuel prices. The
real rebounded from the weakest level since December 2008.  Russian stocks snapped a two-day retreat as commodity
companies from OAO Mechel to OAO Severstal surged. OAO Sberbank,
the nation’s largest lender, snapped a five-day slump.  Tata Steel  India’s S&P BSE Sensex rallied 2.3 percent, for the biggest
gain among major emerging-market indexes. Tata Steel helped send
measure of metal companies to its biggest gain in more than four
years. The rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 64.63 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched a record low of 65.56.  China’s stocks fell to a two-week low as concern the Fed
will pare stimulus overshadowed a better-than-estimated
manufacturing report. Emerging-market stocks dropped for a fifth
day yesterday after minutes from the U.S. central bank’s last
meeting showed officials support Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan
for trimming stimulus.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. and
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led declines for material and energy
companies with losses of at least 2.1 percent. ZTE Corp.
advanced 1 percent after its net income jumped 27 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell 0.04 percentage point to 338 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  