-- Emerging-Market Noose Closes In on Ruble Bonds: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-22T08:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/emerging-market-noose-closes-in-on-ruble-bonds-russia-credit.html
A selloff in emerging-market assets
is showing no signs of abating as  Russia  failed to place all of
its shortest-dated bonds at an auction yesterday.  The Finance Ministry sold 6.37 billion rubles ($193
million) of May 2016 OFZs, according to a website  statement 
yesterday, the first time Russia hasn’t sold out a 10-billion
ruble offering of the notes since their June debut. At 6.32
percent, the average yield was 175 basis points above that of
similar maturity debt sold by fellow oil producer  Mexico , rated
the same at Moody’s Investors Service.  Bonds and currencies are tumbling from Jakarta to
Johannesburg as developing-market economies founder and looming
U.S. stimulus cuts drive investors from riskier assets. The
ruble weakened 6.8 percent to the central bank’s basket of
dollars and euros as of 6 p.m. in Moscow yesterday since May 22,
when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he could
scale back debt purchases.  “The continuing correction on developing markets, both in
local bonds and Eurobonds, was the main reason for the low
demand,” Dmitry Dorofeev, a strategist and trader at BCS
Financial Group in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.  September Meeting  Fed policy makers will begin to curb the $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases next month, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Aug. 9-13. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  holds its next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  The yield on Russia’s February 2027 bond increased to a
record 8.37 percent on June 24 after Bernanke said the Fed may
begin curtailing debt purchases this year and end them in 2014.
The OFZ fell for a third day yesterday, pushing up the yield
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.98 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  sold the three-year notes yesterday at
the top end of its guidance of 6.27 percent to 6.32 percent. The
securities closed at 6.34 percent on Aug. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The auction result “could be seen as not being bad given
the state of the market,” Anton Nikitin, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday. “And there was no
premium either.”  Russia is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
third-lowest investment-grade status. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russia’s dollar debt rather than Treasuries was
unchanged at 236 by 12:50 p.m. in Moscow, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes.  The demand at yesterday’s auction probably came from
several big bidders as foreign investors stayed away due to the
“negative external backdrop,” Denis Poryvay, an analyst at
Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  “The Finance Ministry made no mistake in abstaining from
offering any long bonds, realizing that there’s no demand
there,” he said. “If there’s no demand for short paper,
there’s even less for long bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  