-- Lend Lease Profit Rises 10% on Barangaroo, Infrastructure
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-23T07:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/lend-lease-profit-rises-10-on-barangaroo-infrastructure-fees.html
Lend Lease  Group, Australia’s
largest listed property developer, reported a 10 percent rise in
full-year profit driven by its central Sydney Barangaroo
redevelopment and fees from infrastructure projects.  Net income  rose to A$551.6 million ($497.6 million) in the
12 months ended June 30 from A$501.4 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange. Operating earnings climbed to A$553 million from
A$507.2 million.  The company said in June it would restructure its
construction and infrastructure businesses, consolidating them
from Aug. 1 to form a more competitive business. Lend Lease said
then that weakness at home and in Europe would lead to reduced
earnings from construction, and analysts forecast further
softness was likely in fiscal year 2014.  “The London market is tough and we don’t expect that to
turn around anytime soon,” Chief Executive Officer Steve McCann
said today in a telephone interview. “In Australia, there has
been a tough environment in the commercial building space and we
expect that to continue. But we have a very big pipeline of our
own development projects.”  Profit after tax in  Europe  fell 2.4 percent to A$99.5
million in the year to June 30, as some construction projects
underperformed, the company said. The 18 percent increase in
Australian profit was driven by its development business, while
construction was hit by weaker conditions, Lend Lease said.  Lend Lease  shares  gained 1.2 percent to A$9.13 at the close
of trading in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose
0.9 percent.  Planned Developments  Lend Lease’s planned developments globally have an end
value of A$37 billion, the largest in its history, it said
today. It has A$17.2 billion in expected construction revenue
and funds under management of A$15 billion, it said.  “There’s still a number of projects that we’ve got our eye
on in  Australia  and offshore,” McCann said. “But the amount of
embedded earnings in our pipeline means that we don’t need to
pursue projects aggressively from here.”  Profit after tax from developments jumped to A$403.2
million from A$166.1 million a year ago, largely due to earnings
from the first two commercial towers at its A$6 billion
Barangaroo financial precinct redevelopment, Lend Lease said.
Infrastructure development profit rose 61 percent to A$104.5
million on fees from four projects, it said. Construction profit
tumbled by almost a third to A$192.8 million.  With two office towers at Barangaroo 77 percent leased,
Lend Lease is “well down the path with a couple of tenants” on
leases for a third building, McCann said.  “We haven’t made a decision yet on timing but we will make
a decision on that tower over the next year or so as to what the
right structure to put it in is and when we kick it off,” he
said.  The company’s full-year  dividend  will be 42 Australian
cents, up from 38 cents for the previous 12 months, it said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  