-- Henderson Land Expects ’Stable’ Hong Kong Property Market
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-08-23T02:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/henderson-land-expects-hong-kong-property-market-to-stay-stable.html
Henderson Land  Development Co.
expects the city’s property market to remain stable after the
 Hong Kong  builder controlled by billionaireLee Shau-kee posted
higher earnings from home sales and rentals. The stock rose.  Revenue from home sales in Hong Kong and mainland  China 
rose 16 percent to HK$4.97 billion ($641 million) in the first
half, while rental income from offices and malls gained 12
percent to HK$2.46 billion, the developer said in a statement to
the city’s stock exchange yesterday after the market closed.
Shares of Henderson Land gained as much as 3.5 percent today and
were 2.2 percent higher at HK$47.20 as of 10:07 a.m.  Henderson Land, which focuses on building and selling units
targeting middle-class homebuyers, sold the most homes among
developers in the first half as sales of more expensive units
plunged following tougher measures by the city’s government to
rein in real estate prices. Lee, 85, in June said  prices  “will
consolidate” in the next couple of years and developers “won’t
make big profits.”  “Hong Kong’s property market should remain stable,” the
company said in yesterday’s statement. Buyers’ interest in
Henderson Land’s projects “demonstrates that small to medium-sized units of superior quality are popular among the local end-users.”  Better Position  The builder sold about 1,800 residential units in the first
half for HK$10.8 billion, the most among Hong Kong developers,
according to figures compiled by realtor Centaline Property
Agency Ltd.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest
builder, was second with about 1,100 unit sales with a total
value of HK$12.2 billion.  “They’re in a better position compared to most
developers,” Lee Wee Liat, Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA, said. “Property sales should gradually pick up next
year and smaller units will continue to sell better.”  Hong Kong developers sold a total of 4,316 new homes in the
first half for HK$40 billion, both figures the lowest since the
second half of 2008, according to Centaline.  Lee is 30th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net
worth of $21.6 billion. He founded Henderson Land in 1973 and
grew it into one of the city’s biggest developers, mainly by
buying out dilapidated and old apartment buildings with multiple
owners for redevelopment.  Lee predicted in January that Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang
Seng Index would reach 26,000 in the first half and rise as high
as 28,000 by year-end, according to a report by  Radio Television
Hong Kong . The index has fallen about 8 percent since reaching a
2013 peak of about 23,800 at the end of January.  Farmland Donation  Henderson Land has about 43 million square feet of land
reserves in the city’s north, it said in the statement
yesterday.  The company will gain HK$1.4 billion in profit from a
government plan to purchase land from developers in the area to
build housing,  Ming Pao  reported today, citing unidentified
analysts who attended a conference call with Henderson Land’s
management yesterday.  Lee, this month, said he’s discussing with the government
to donate farmland in Hong Kong’s north to help provide homes
for the city’s young people at below market prices, the  South
China Morning Post  reported Aug. 10.  Henderson Land’s  shares  have fallen 5.2 percent this year,
outperforming a 7 percent drop in the Hang Seng Property Index,
which tracks nine of the biggest Hong Kong-listed developers
including Henderson Land.  Profit Declines  First-half  underlying profit , which excludes revaluation
gains and deferred taxes, fell 4 percent from a year earlier to
HK$3.45 billion as gains in property sales and rental
income failed to compensate for a decline in contributions from
Hong Kong & China Gas Co., the city’s main fuel supplier, which
Henderson Land controls. That compares with the HK$3.7 billion
median estimate of three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Home prices  in the city have more than doubled since early
2009 on record-low  mortgage rates  and a shortage of new supply.
Leung Chun-ying, who took over as Hong Kong’s leader in July
last year, has imposed extra transactions taxes and raised
minimum mortgage down-payment requirements to curb prices.  Including revaluation net of non-controlling interests and
deferred taxes, profit was HK$7.76 billion, or HK$2.92 a share,
compared with HK$7.73 billion, or HK$2.97 a share, a year
earlier, the company said.  Henderson will pay an interim dividend of 32 Hong Kong
cents, unchanged from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  