-- Merkel’s Greece Aide Sees Reform Headway After Two Years in Job
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-22T15:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/merkel-s-greece-aide-sees-reform-headway-after-two-years-in-job.html
Greece’s efforts to modernize the
economy with support from Germany are beginning to pay off at a
local level two years after  joint projects  were first begun,
said  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s special envoy to the country.  Hans-Joachim Fuchtel, a lawmaker for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party who was appointed to his job in 2011,
said Greek initiatives are benefiting from a “treasure trove”
of German industrial and administrative expertise that’s spawned
 projects  from tourism to exporting textiles and managing waste.  “Greece has come a huge step forward,” Fuchtel, 61, who
has visited the country about a dozen times in his post, said in
an interview in Berlin yesterday. All the same, “economic
recovery needs to be speeded up.”  A favorable report card from Fuchtel lends credence to
Merkel’s insistence on an overhaul of the Greek economy in
return for aid and may help her make the case for any fresh
measures needed to help the country. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Aug. 20 that  Greece  will need a new aid package.  Fuchtel, who accompanied Merkel to  Athens  in November and
joined Schaeuble on his trip to Greece July, said he has little
influence over macro-economic policy in Greece, including asset
sales that are behind schedule. He was hired to signal German
solidarity with Greece’s fiscal and economic woes.  The German-Greek Group led by Fuchtel, who combines the
work with a post in Berlin as a deputy labor minister, targets
local Greek mayors as project managers and is active in areas
including training young Greeks in Germany and developing
exports.  Olive Farmers  Helped by German know-how in cornering foreign sales, Greek
farmers may export 20 percent more produce this year, according
to Fuchtel. Greek olive farmers are being encouraged to add
value by processing the fruit locally rather than selling it to
foreign producers and, after a 10-year absence, Greece has with
German encouragement returned to the annual “Green Week”
agricultural show in Berlin, the world’s largest, said Fuchtel.
The group is also helping Greek textile producers that employ
30,000 to export products to Europe.  While working for Merkel directly, the chancellor gives her
Greece adviser “a lot of free rein” and does not demand
regular report on the micro-level programs he supervises, said
Fuchtel, a trained attorney.  Fuchtel said he has to battle Greek bureaucracy and
frustration amid a sixth year of recession and a jobless tally
that rose to a record 27.6 percent in May. Greek lawmakers,
faced with approving unprecedented economic reform and fiscal
bills, should work more closely with their German counterparts
after next month’s federal election, said Fuchtel, who is
himself seeking re-election.  “Lawmakers need to be convinced that what they’re doing is
right,” said Fuchtel. “Just as in  Germany , lawmakers need the
factual background to make decisions.”  Success stories about Greece are few and far between and
often go unreported in Germany, according to Fuchtel.  “I go about my work thinking the glass is always half
full, never half empty,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  