-- Merkel Shifts Focus to Economy Warning SPD Tax Plans Cost Jobs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-23T11:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/merkel-warns-spd-tax-plans-could-upend-germany-s-labor-market.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  turned the
campaign focus to her stewardship of  Europe ’s biggest economy,
warning that plans by the opposition Social Democrats to raise
taxes would upend Germany’s robust labor market.  Merkel used a rally in the eastern town of Wernigerode
yesterday to dismiss the notion that the government must create
jobs, instead touting her Christian Democratic Union party’s
alliance with business. She redoubled her attacks on SPD
chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck ’s planned tax increases
for the wealthier as “poison” for the economy.  “We shouldn’t burden those who are successful with a
conversation about envy, but rather encourage them so that it’s
better for us all,” Merkel told a crowd of several hundred
supporters in the town at the foot of the Harz mountains, many
of whom waved orange placards emblazoned with “Angie.”  Merkel is campaigning on her record of driving  unemployment 
down near a two-decade low and sheltering Germany from the worst
of the euro-region debt crisis as she seeks a third term in the
Sept. 22 election. Her case was bolstered today by figures
showing the German economy picked up speed in the second
quarter, driven by consumption and a rebound in investment.  Backing for the CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the
 Christian Social Union , held at 41 percent in an  FG Wahlen poll 
for ZDF television released today, while her Free Democratic
coalition partner gained a point to 6 percent. That’s enough to
secure a rerun for Merkel’s current government if repeated on
Election Day, and the first time in almost four years this poll
has shown a majority for the present coalition, ZDF said.  No Movement  Steinbreuck’s SPD and its Greens party ally were both
unchanged, at 25 percent and 13 percent respectively. The anti-capitalist Left Party held at 8 percent. FG Wahlen polled 1,287
voters on Aug. 20-22. The results have a margin of error of as
much as 3 percentage points.  One month before the election,  Germany ’s  jobless rate  of
6.8 percent is almost half the 17-nation euro-area average,
while economic growth of 0.7 percent in the second quarter
helped lead the region out of its longest-ever recession.  Against that backdrop, Steinbrueck has so far  failed  to put
a dent in the chancellor’s popularity with a platform of wealth
distribution and social justice. Little more a quarter -- 28
percent -- of respondents to the FG Wahlen poll said they
thought Germany would be more “socially just” under an SPD-Greens government. Just 18 percent said they expected the SPD to
improve its score in the polls.  Greek Aid  The SPD tried to open a new front against Merkel this week
over the cost of the debt crisis, accusing her of attempting to
conceal the need for a third Greek aid program until after the
election. Steinbrueck seized on comments made by Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on Aug. 20 that  Greece  will need
additional funds, saying it was proof the government’s crisis
policies weren’t working.  Schaeuble, in an interview with Handelsblatt newspaper
published today, said that any Greek aid would be far lower than
in the past and repeated that help would not involve a second
haircut on Greek debt.  If Merkel wins a third term, “she will continue to take a
gradualist approach to European integration, ruling out those
‘silver bullet’ solutions often urged on her by the rest of the
world,” Dario Perkins, an economist at Lombard Street Research
Ltd. in  London , said today in a note. “Whether this approach
proves sufficient to prevent the euro crisis returning depends
on what happens to the European and world economies over the
next few years.”  Tax Plans  Steinbrueck’s SPD plans to raise the top income tax rate to
49 percent from 42 percent. The SPD candidate yesterday told the
Rheinische Post newspaper that he may consider tax changes to
stop so-called “cold progression,” or bracket creep. Merkel,
whose first term grand coalition government with the SPD raised
the value-added tax to 19 percent from 16 percent in 2006, vows
not to raise taxes.  “It’s the wrong thing to do during a time now where there
are more jobs and our economy is largely in balance,” Merkel
said in the town’s market square, ringed by half-timbered
houses.  Both candidates continue campaigning next week with events
scheduled across the country before the only televised election
debate on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Wernigerode, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  