-- EU Said to Weigh Curbs on Collateral Asset Reuse in Repos
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-08-22T11:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/eu-said-to-weigh-curbs-on-collateral-asset-reuse-in-repo-trades.html
Banks and brokers may face European
Union curbs on the number of times a single asset can be passed
on as collateral in  repurchase agreements  and other secured
trades, according to a person familiar with the plans.  The EU is weighing whether it should limit the length of
transaction chains in which traders who receive collateral in
turn use the same securities to back separate trades, according
to the person, who asked not to be named because the proposals
aren’t public. It is also planning measures to make the chains
easier to monitor by regulators.  Repurchase agreements, or repos, are one of the targets of
the possible EU rules, as authorities seek to extend regulations
beyond traditional banking activities to cover other sources of
risk taking.  The 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
unleashed turmoil in financial markets, driven in part by
uncertainty over who owned cash and other assets used to back
derivatives trades with the bank. Litigation over the collateral
has continued ever since, including a dispute between Lehman and
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  over $1 billion in cash the bank provided to the
world’s largest chip maker as part of a swap agreement.  The handing over of collateral is an integral part of repos
-- one of the activities under review by global regulators as
part of their efforts to regulate shadow banking. Banks use
repos to help finance investments in Treasuries, corporate bonds
and mortgage-backed securities.  Secondary Markets  The possible commission plan would “make it more difficult
to get leverage in secondary markets and that in turn will make
it harder to iron out pricing anomalies,” said  Peter Chatwell ,
an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “That may make it more difficult to
manage issuers’ redemption and coupon profiles. Ultimately, it
makes for a less efficient market.”  In an efficient market, if a trader sees a bond that is
expensive relative to the issuer’s other bonds, he or she uses
repo to borrow the note and then sells it, while buying the
cheaper debt. The transactions help close the gap between the
“cheap” and “expensive” bonds.  “Complex” chains of collateral can make it difficult for
investors to “identify who owns what, where risk is
concentrated and who is exposed to whom,” according to a
document prepared by European Commission officials in May and
obtained by  Bloomberg News . “This has consequences for
transparency and financial stability.”  Liquid Assets  Banks are facing a growing list of demands from regulators
to seek out highly liquid assets as authorities move to bolster
the resilience of the financial system.  Re-use of collateral is one way that lenders can satisfy
the tougher rules, amid warnings from banks that there may not
be enough highly liquid securities available to satisfy
accumulating requirements from supervisors.  Lenders including  UBS AG  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  have warned
that plans by global regulators in the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to set minimum collateral requirements for
non-centrally cleared swaps trades will prompt a global
liquidity squeeze as banks struggle to locate enough securities
to satisfy the standards.  While Basel regulators early this year proposed changes to
the draft standards, including some scope for re-using
collateral, and a longer phase-in time, lenders have said this
doesn’t go far enough to resolve their concerns.  Regulator Moves  There are signs already that the repo market is shrinking
in response to moves by regulators.  The U.S. repo market shrank to $4.6 trillion daily
outstanding last month, down 35 percent from a peak of $7.02
trillion in the first quarter of 2008, based on Federal Reserve
data compiled from its 21 primary dealers.  The repo market is also shrinking as the U.S. Fed scoops up
Treasuries through its monthly bond purchases. The central bank
owns about 17 percent of the market.  Money-market funds such as those used by individuals to
park cash and savings, are a major provider of repo financing.
In one example of a repo agreement, a money-market fund may lend
cash to a dealer overnight, with government securities serving
as collateral for the loan.  The potential consequences of a fall in market liquidity
are higher borrowing costs for governments, companies and
consumers.  Securities Trading  The EU measures may be included in a draft law on
securities trading that regulators intend to publish by the end
of the year.  The commission may give some details on the proposals in a
paper on shadow banking on Sept. 4. The report will be published
in tandem with a draft law to force money-market funds to hold
minimum levels of liquid assets, and in some cases, additional
cash reserves, the person said.  Shadow banking is a term used by regulators to define
activities that fall outside the scope of most financial
regulation, and which they believe could be a source of systemic
risk.  The commission will draw on international discussions on
how the “regulatory framework for securities lending and repos
could be improved” in drawing up its proposal,  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial-services chief, said in an Aug. 7 response to
a parliamentary question.  “Work in this area is extremely complex and technical and
touches upon many areas of national law,” he said, adding that
he is seeking to present proposals by the end of 2013.  Repo Trades  “The entire shadow bank sector is not yet properly
regulated,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier, said in
an e-mail. “We must ensure that risks are not accumulating” in
this part of the financial system, she said.  The EU market for repo trades, contracts in which one
investor agrees to sell a security and then buy it back at a
future date at a fixed price, is worth more than 5.6 trillion
euros ($7.5 trillion) according to  survey  data published by the
 International Capital Market Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  