-- Everbright Securities Shares Fall to Two-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T03:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/everbright-president-xu-resigns-after-trading-error-1-.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  shares
fell to a two-month low after the company’s president resigned
following erroneous buy orders by the firm that roiled Chinese
stock markets a week ago.  The stock sank 1.1 percent to 9.87  yuan  as of  Shanghai ’s
11:30 a.m. trading break, poised for the lowest close since June
25. Trading in the shares was suspended yesterday afternoon as
Everbright announced Xu Haoming’s resignation four days after
regulators announced a probe into the company.  Chairman Yuan Changqing will become acting president as the
company seeks to allay investors’ concern and stem a 19 percent
drop in its shares this week, after it made 23.4 billion yuan
($3.8 billion) of erroneous buy orders on Aug. 16. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission banned Everbright from
proprietary trading for three months following the error, which
the watchdog called unprecedented.  “The president has paid a huge price,” Wei Tao, a
Beijing-based analyst at  China  Securities Co., said by phone
today. “While Everbright has come down a lot already, it’s
difficult to say where the bottom for the stock will be.”  Everbright’s shares trade for 18.9 times 12-month projected
profit, the lowest level since Nov. 29, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s three times the valuation of a gauge of
 financial stocks  in the CSI 300 Index, the data show.  The brokerage earlier this week suspended Yang Jianbo, who
oversees its proprietary trading as head of global markets.  Improved Supervision  Everbright estimated that it lost 194 million yuan on the
trades, based on Aug. 16 closing prices, and said the figure may
change. The final trading loss from the error could reach 400
million yuan, Paddy Ran, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in a
note last week.  The CSRC will improve its supervision system to help
prevent trading errors, China Securities Journal reported today,
citing an unidentified person.  Xu follows other executives at state-controlled Chinese
companies in resigning after trading losses.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) 
Chairman Larry Yung stepped down after the company reported a
currency-derivative loss of about HK$15 billion ($1.9 billion)
in October 2008, the biggest by a Chinese company. China
Aviation Oil ( Singapore ) Corp.’s former head Chen Jiulin gave up
his post in 2006 after a $550 million trading loss that prompted
the company to seek protection from creditors.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
kept his job after last year’s record $6.2 billion trading loss
that drew criticism from lawmakers and regulators. Shareholders
in the largest  U.S. bank  by assets rejected a proposal in May to
split his roles after Dimon guided the bank through the global
financial crisis and three straight years of record profit.  Regulatory Limit  Everbright’s net income in the first half fell 2.2 percent
from a year earlier to 810.9 million yuan, China’s seventh-largest brokerage by market value said in a  statement  to the
Shanghai stock exchange yesterday. Revenue rose 13 percent to
2.39 billion yuan, it said. Larger competitor Haitong Securities
Co.  said  yesterday first-half net income rose 32 percent to 2.67
billion yuan.  The investigation into the trades is the CSRC’s second
probe of Everbright this year, after the watchdog in June began
scrutinizing the brokerage’s role in an initial public offering.
That forced the company to delay a $1.3 billion share sale.  Everbright’s strategic investment department, which
oversees trades using the firm’s own money, made the incorrect
buy orders on Aug. 16, causing a 6 percentage-point swing in the
 Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   Client Departures  Everbright may suffer financial damage as investors seek
compensation for stock losses, and some clients could leave the
company due to concerns over its internal controls, Li Cong, a
Shanghai-based analyst at GF Securities Co., wrote in an Aug. 19
note. Business expansion may be curbed due to penalties from the
securities regulator, Li said.  The brokerage may be penalized because the value of
equities, securities and derivatives held by its proprietary
trading desk relative to net capital exceeded the regulatory
limit of 100 percent, Everbright said on Aug. 18. The ratio was
at 94.39 percent at the end of June 2012, according to its
first-half earnings statement last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  