-- Lew Says Failing to Raise Debt Limit Would Be ‘Disastrous’
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-08-22T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/lew-says-failing-to-raise-debt-limit-would-be-disastrous-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said a failure by Congress to raise the $16.7 trillion debt
limit would “have disastrous effects for our nation” and could
put at risk payments to  Social Security  recipients and veterans.  “Even a delay of a necessary increase in the debt limit
can bring harmful consequences,” Lew said in comments prepared
for a speech today at the Computer History Museum in  Mountain
View , California. “If cash on hand were to be depleted, all
payments across the government -- including Social Security and
payments to our military and veterans -- would be at risk.”  The Treasury Department has said it probably will be able
to finance government operations by using special accounting
measures until after Congress returns Sept. 9 from its recess.
The Bipartisan Policy Center, a nonprofit research group, has
estimated that the U.S. will reach the point where it is unable
to pay its bills sometime between mid-October and mid-November
unless Congress increases the limit.  Lew quoted former President  Ronald Reagan  as saying, “the
full consequences of a default -- or even the serious prospect
of default -- by the United States are impossible to predict and
awesome to contemplate.”  In August 2011, Congress agreed after months of haggling to
increase the debt limit on the day the government’s ability to
borrow was to run out.  Standard & Poor’s , which downgraded the U.S. one step to
AA+ three days later, changed its outlook in June of this year
to “stable” from “negative.”  Yields Drop  Though the 2011 downgrade by S&P, the world’s largest
credit rater, contributed to a global stock-market slump,  U.S.
government debt  lost none of its attraction for investors.
Yields on  Treasury securities  dropped to record lows rather than
going higher after the downgrade. Yields on 10-year Treasuries
dropped 0.74 percentage point in the seven weeks following the
downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent.  In his remarks, Lew also said that “unemployment remains
stubbornly high, while too many people are still struggling to
re-enter the workforce.” His appearance today was hosted by the
Commonwealth Club of California.  Lew earlier today toured an AT&T Inc. foundry in Palo Alto,
California, and was to meet at Facebook Inc., headquarters in
Menlo Park with Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg 
and other business executives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  