-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Tipped by Second Doctor, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-23T12:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ex-sac-manager-martoma-tipped-by-second-doctor-u-s-says.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
manager Mathew Martoma, charged with trading on illicit tips
from a physician about an Alzheimer’s drug, was accused by
prosecutors of getting inside information from a second doctor.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office yesterday
filed a revised indictment claiming the second source,
identified only as “Doctor-2,” did paid consultations with
Martoma, which were arranged through an unidentified “financial
services firm” that provided expert networking services to SAC,
the hedge fund company founded by  Steven A. Cohen .  “Doctor-2 provided confidential information about the drug
trial and other Alzheimer’s disease drug trials to Martoma with
the expectation that Martoma would assist Doctor-2 in obtaining
additional clinical trial business,” according to the new
indictment.  The U.S. claims Martoma used the information from the two
doctors, who were involved in the trial of bapineuzumab, or
“bapi,” to help the hedge fund make $276 million by trading in
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth. The government has called it the
biggest criminal insider-trading case against an individual in
history.  Richard Strassberg , Martoma’s lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  SAC Indictment  SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , was indicted in July,
partly because of Martoma’s alleged illegal trading. In the SAC
indictment, prosecutors claimed that two unidentified SAC
health-care analysts exchanged e-mails with Cohen on April 11,
2008, and the next day about information they’d gotten through a
paid consultation with an unidentified clinical investigator on
the trial of the Alzheimer’s drug.  Cohen allegedly told Martoma to call the investigator and
report back, which prosecutors said he did. It isn’t clear
whether the clinical investigator is the Doctor-2 referred to in
yesterday’s indictment.  The revised indictment against Martoma doesn’t add to the
two counts of  securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy
against him. Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty, is scheduled
to go to trial Nov. 4. If convicted, Martoma faces as much as 20
years in prison on the securities fraud charges and five years
on the conspiracy charge.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has alleged
that the other doctor who tipped off Martoma about the drug
trials was Sid Gilman, a neurologist who was head of the safety
monitoring committee for the bapi trial. Gilman, who worked at
the  University of Michigan , has entered into a non-prosecution
agreement and agreed to cooperate with the government.  Clinical Trial  Working for Elan in the clinical trial for bapi, Doctor-2
treated Alzheimer’s patients with the drug, then reported to
Elan data about their mental and physical condition, according
to the government.  On May 29, 2008, Martoma set up a meeting with Doctor-2 for
the evening of July 28, shortly after a briefing in which
Doctor-2 was to be told the final results of the bapi trial and
a day before they were scheduled to be announced publicly.  In mid-July 2008, Gilman passed Martoma secret data showing
that bapi failed to halt the progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said.  When Martoma learned that Wyeth and Elan would report
negative data on the drug, Martoma had a 20-minute phone call
with Cohen, according to the government. The hedge fund owner,
at Martoma’s recommendation, sold off almost all of the fund’s
$700 million position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the stock
short, prosecutors claimed.  Claim Dropped  The revised indictment drops a claim in the earlier
indictment that Gilman sent Martoma a 24-slide PowerPoint
presentation that Gilman got from Elan on July 17, 2008. That
presentation was to be used in announcing the bapi trial
results.  The new indictment provides additional allegations about
Martoma’s attempts to contact doctors on the bapi trial.
According to the government, on Aug. 30, 2006, Martoma sent to
the expert-networking firm a list of more than 20 doctors who
were working as clinical investigators on the trial, asking it
to arrange consultations with the doctors. The next day an
unidentified employee said that nine had responded. All
declined, citing a conflict of interest, according to the
government.  ‘Multiple Doctors’  “Notwithstanding this impediment, Martoma was ultimately
able to arrange -- both through the expert networking firm and
other channels -- paid consultations with multiple doctors with
access to confidential information about the drug trial,”
prosecutors claimed.  The new indictment also specifies assets that prosecutors
want Martoma to forfeit as alleged proceeds of the insider
trading scheme. According to the government, Martoma should be
ordered to forfeit the $9.3 million bonus tied to the illegal
trades, his $1.9 million  Boca Raton ,  Florida , home, $3.2 million
held in his bank account, $245,000 in an account held by his
wife, Rosemary Martoma, and $935,000 held in the name of the
Mathew and Rosemary Martoma Foundation.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 