-- Exxaro Says Coal Prices Curb Earnings as Profit Drops 39%
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-08-22T13:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/exxaro-says-low-coal-prices-to-curb-earnings-as-profit-drops-39-.html
Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ,  South
Africa ’s second-largest coal producer, said low prices will hurt
full-year profit after it fell 39 percent in the first half.  Headline earnings, which exclude one-time items, declined
to 7.12 rand a share from 11.62 rand in the same period a year
earlier, the Pretoria-based company said in a statement today.
Operating costs were 320 million rand ($31 million) higher in
the half than a year earlier, the company said.  Lower prices and a 292 million-rand writedown of assets at
the New Clydesdale mine, which employs 402 workers in Mpumalanga
province, cut profit, it said. The company is considering
stopping output at the colliery, which has negative margins, and
has started talks with unions over layoffs.  “Trading conditions for the coal business continued to be
challenging,” the company said. “The financial and operational
results for the remainder of 2013 are expected to be impacted by
continued low coal prices and rand-dollar exchange-rate
volatility.”  Prices for coal shipped from  Richards Bay  on South Africa’s
east coast, the world’s biggest coal-export terminal, averaged
$82.67 a metric ton in the first half, down 16 percent from a
year earlier, according to data compiled by IHS McCloskey Group
Ltd. The rand has been the most volatile of 16 major currencies
against the dollar in the past six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Congo Project  The slide in prices coupled with rising costs and slowing
Chinese demand is prompting miners from Glencore Xstrata Plc,
the world’s biggest shipper, to  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  to cancel
projects and fire workers.  “Exxaro’s focus remains grounded on improved long-term
value creation through cost management, improved productivity
levels and investment in risk-adjusted return projects,” it
said.  The company’s Mayoko iron-ore project in the Republic of
Congo is a 730 million-ton resource, according to a company
presentation. A nine-month delay at the project while it waits
for the country to finalize its mining convention has cost it an
extra 200 million rand, Exxaro Finance Director Wim de Klerk
said at the presentation. Production is expected to reach 30,000
tons a month by the second half of next year and 10 million tons
annually by 2019.  Exxaro had 64 responses to a sale notice of its New
Clydesdale mine, though it hasn’t received any offers.  The company started a so-called Section 189 process, a 60-day notice to discuss possible staff reduction, it said in an
Aug. 8 statement. The shares were little changed at 162.08 rand
at 2:27 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is South Africa’s largest coal producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  