-- MF Global Judge Delays Approval of CFTC Settlement
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-22T15:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/mf-global-judge-delays-approval-of-cftc-settlement.html
MF Global Inc. can’t get court
approval for a settlement with the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission until the defunct broker determines whether
an admission of wrongdoing will cause insurers to deny coverage
to its directors and officers, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
ordered a trustee for MF Global to try to resolve the issue with
insurers. If that effort fails, the trustee may have to pursue
litigation, Glenn said.  “I’m withholding approval for you to enter the consent
order with the CFTC,” Glenn said.  The settlement over MF Global’s collapse calls for the
company to repay customers in full and pay a $100 million civil
penalty if it has money left over. MF Global’s trustee also must
admit to “the allegations pertaining to liability against MFGI
based on the acts and omissions of its employees,” according to
court papers.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent company,
filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a $6.3 billion bet
on bonds of some of Europe’s most indebted nations. The company
listed assets of $41 billion and debts of $39.7 billion.  Glenn said the CFTC seems to be joining the Securities and
Exchange Commission in steering away from settlement language in
which parties neither admit or deny wrongdoing.  U.K. Settlement  Separately, James Kobak, a lawyer for MF Global trustee
James Giddens, said the company will receive more than
$300 million from a resolution with its U.K. unit. The expected
amount was $290 million, according to spokesman Kent Jarrell.  A pending lawsuit against the company’s former management,
including ex-New Jersey Governor and onetime Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Co-ChairmanJon Corzine, will affect the size and timing of
further distributions, Giddens has said.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  