-- FBI’s Mueller Says Arab Spring Has Created New Threats
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/fbi-s-mueller-says-arab-spring-has-created-new-threats.html
The Arab Spring uprisings have
created a new segment of violent extremists that will threaten
the U.S. and its citizens abroad for years to come, FBI Director
 Robert Mueller  said.  Mueller, who will complete his 12 years atop the law
enforcement agency on Sept. 4, said  Tunisia ,  Libya ,  Mali ,
 Algeria ,  Syria  and most recently,  Egypt , have become the focus
of U.S. counterterrorism efforts.  “Every one of these countries now has cadres of
individuals who you would put in the category of violent
extremists that will present threats down the road,” Mueller
told a group of reporters during an interview inside the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s headquarters in Washington. “Not only
threats to us in the  United States , but also threats to
Americans overseas.”  Mueller’s comments came two weeks after the U.S. closed
embassies and diplomatic compounds in almost two dozen countries
because of terrorist threats and as the U.S. government
continues to grapple with the diplomatic responses to unrest
across  Middle East , North Africa and South Asia.  The State Department on Aug. 3 issued a worldwide travel
alert warning of potential terror attacks by al-Qaeda or its
affiliates.  For Mueller, a shifting landscape abroad has been the
catalyst for the transformation that has taken place at the FBI
since he became director just days before the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on  New York  City and Washington.  Reshaping FBI  The FBI -- and Mueller himself -- were reshaped both by
statute and through internal priorities to become a
counterterrorism and intelligence-driven institution, he said.  “It took me awhile to fully understand that the training
that I had had, which was principally with the FBI, DEA and
others, which was to investigate criminal acts as they occurred,
was not going to be the paradigm for the future,” said Mueller
as he recounted the impact of the 2001 attacks had on his
tenure.  James B. Comey, the former No. 2 official at the  Justice
Department  under President  George W. Bush , was confirmed 93-1 by
the  U.S. Senate  last month to succeed Mueller. Comey, who
Mueller called “a good friend, an excellent choice and a superb
prosecutor,” will begin next week to work at the FBI to ensure
a smooth transition.  Tracking terrorists -- particularly self-radicalized
individuals, or “lone wolves” -- are the biggest threat he is
leaving to Comey.  Budget Cuts  Comey also will join a bureau facing sharp budget
reductions even as the Justice Department has worked to shift
money to compensate for the across-the-board federal spending
cuts known as sequestration.  Mueller said that along with cuts to travel, he’s been
forced to curtail investigations of white-collar crime and joint
programs with state authorities. FBI agents will likely be
forced to take unpaid leave, or be furloughed, during the next
fiscal year, which starts in October.  “The budget, making the hard choices, I think that’s going
to be the biggest hurdle he faces at this juncture,” Mueller
said of his successor.  Comey also will inherit the growing questions from members
of Congress and civil-liberties advocates about the reach and
scope of the intelligence gathering programs used by the U.S.
government.  Mueller has publicly defended the merits of the bulk
collection of the phone records of U.S. citizens, as well as the
collection of Internet metadata targeting foreign citizens
outside of the country believed to be involved in terrorism.  Surveillance Programs  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, in response to the
disclosures of the classified programs to media outlets by
former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden, has moved
over the last month to declassify and release court orders,
legal white papers and broad descriptions of the programs in an
effort to quell growing momentum in Congress to restrict funding
or use of the programs.  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence made
public a previously classified  2011 ruling  from a federal judge
from the government’s secret foreign surveillance court that
showed the National Security Agency repeatedly misled the court
about the collection of tens of thousands of e-mails and other
communications by U.S. citizens.  Civil Liberties  While intelligence officials described the problem as
primarily technological and said it was corrected, lawmakers
including Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, and Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , the top
Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, are pressing for
more information from the administration.  “There have been occasions, very few I might say, where
there has had to be some adjustment, but I am fairly comfortable
and confident that we are doing things the way the American
public would expect us to do it with a appreciation of the
potential impact on privacy and civil liberties,” Mueller said.  Mueller said Snowden’s disclosures, which have been
published primarily in the The Guardian and the  Washington Post (WPO) ,
have “impacted and are in the process of impacting the
capabilities around the world.” He declined to provide details
of how U.S. capabilities have been impacted.  The U.S. government has made progress against cyber attacks
and cyber terrorism, Mueller said, though the effort “still has
a ways to go.”  A successful cyber attack on a large U.S. economic sector,
specifically the financial sector, remains one of the FBI’s
biggest concerns, Mueller said. The FBI has pushed for lawmakers
and private industry to reach agreement on legislation that
would better enable both sides to quickly share information to
counter cyber threats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  