-- FIFA Dismisses Criticism From Rio Mayor Over World Cup Focus
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-22T17:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/fifa-dismisses-criticism-from-rio-mayor-over-world-cup-focus.html
FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke 
dismissed criticism from Rio de Janeiro’s mayor over soccer’s
governing body’s focus on stadium readiness for next year’s
World Cup.  Mayor Eduardo Paes, in an interview to be aired tomorrow by
ESPN’s affiliate in Brazil, said the “FIFA environment isn’t
the best in the world” and said the organization isn’t
interested in infrastructure projects such as mass transit that
would leave a legacy. He called Rio’s hosting of the 2016
Olympics an “embarrassment” given the lack of preparedness of
Brazil’s athletes because of poor federal sports policies,
according to a preview of the interview on ESPN’s website.  “If he hasn’t yet understood what is the legacy of the
World Cup, I’m speechless,” Valcke, FIFA’s top administrative
official, told journalists in Rio de Janeiro yesterday. “Maybe
he should just look at the Olympic Games and just forget about
the World Cup.”  Demonstrators took to the streets in the biggest protests
in two decades during June’s Confederations Cup, a warmup for
the World Cup. They took advantage of global interest in the
soccer tournament to criticize government spending on stadiums
instead of public services like hospitals and schools.  Brazilians still want to host the World Cup, Sports
Minister Aldo Rebelo told reporters today in Rio de Janeiro. The
government will work with airlines to evaluate increasing
domestic flights during the tournament to ease transport, he
said.  FIFA’s Lesson  The lesson FIFA has learned from  Brazil  is that the
organization should require national approval before analyzing a
bid to host international sport’s most watched-event, Valcke
said. The organization may ask countries to submit their bids to
host the 2026 World Cup for approval by their legislatures.  FIFA values more than just stadiums and puts importance on
transport infrastructure as well, Valcke told reporters today in
Rio.  “But, again, we don’t have the World Cup without stadiums,
I’m sorry to say,” he said. “Where do you want to play, on the
beach? Fine. But that’s the Beach Soccer World Cup, and we have
it in Tahiti next month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  