-- Filmmaker Lucas Purchases $10 Million in Starbucks Shares
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-22T22:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/filmmaker-lucas-purchases-10-million-in-starbucks-shares.html
George Lucas , the “ Star Wars ”
creator who reaped $4 billion selling his company to Walt Disney
Co. last year, invested a fraction of his fortune in  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest chain of coffee shops.  A trust controlled by Lucas bought almost $10 million of
Starbucks shares, according to a filing yesterday by Mellody Hobson, the billionaire’s wife and a member of the Starbucks
board. The couple married in June at Lucas’s Skywalker ranch in
Marin County, California, and announced the birth of their
daughter, Everest Hobson Lucas, this month.  Lucas, 69, in December sold Lucasfilm Ltd., whose movie
franchises include “Indiana Jones” as well as “Star Wars,”
to Disney for about $4 billion of cash and stock. The next
month, he announced his engagement to Hobson, the president of
Ariel Investments LLC, a Chicago-based money-management firm
with $6.3 billion in assets as of June 30.  Hobson, 44, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment. Connie Wethington, a Lucas representative, said
in an e-mail that “no comments or statements will be issued
with regard to stock inquiries.”  According to the Form 4 that Hobson filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the GWL Living Trust  bought 
141,573 Starbucks shares on Aug. 19 at an average price of
$70.60. As a Starbucks director, Hobson must  report  her
transactions in company shares as well as those of her immediate
family.  “These shares are held in a trust for the benefit of the
reporting person’s spouse,” Hobson said in the Form 4 filing,
adding that she disclaimed beneficial ownership of the stock.
Lucas is the sole trustee and beneficiary of the trust.  Board Member  Hobson, a board member at Seattle-based Starbucks since
February 2005, serves on the  audit committee . She was named the
chairman of  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  last year and is a
director at Estee Lauder Cos. and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)   Starbucks  shares , having reached a 52-week high of $74.23
each on Aug. 2, rose 1.7 percent today to close at $71.90 in New
York. The stock has climbed 34 percent this year.  In the first five days of August, Starbucks Chairman  Howard Schultz  raised about $31 million through the sale of 418,000
company shares, according to a Form 4 filed with the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  