-- Finland’s S-Bank Seeks to Win Mortgage-Market Share on Merger
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-08-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/finland-s-s-bank-seeks-to-win-mortgage-market-share-on-merger.html
S-Bank Oy,  Finland ’s third-biggest
bank by customers, plans to multiply its market share in home
loans after acquiring the operations this year, according to
Chief Executive Officer Pekka Ylihurula.  “Our market share will multiply in mortgages,” Ylihurula
said in an interview at the company’s Helsinki headquarters
yesterday. “We want to be the leader in consumer loans, third-largest in salary accounts and third-largest in funds.”  S-Bank, owned by the S-Group cooperative, is making an
entry into Finland’s 86 billion-euro ($115 billion) home-loan
market by merging with LaehiTapiola Bank Oy. The June deal
allows the bank to add mortgage and insurance products to its
portfolio from the start of next year. In May, it acquired asset
manager FIM Group Oyj to be able to offer access to investment
funds to its 2.6 million customers.  S-Bank’s share of mortgages will multiply by 2020,
Ylihurula said. LaehiTapiola currently has 1.6 percent of the
market for Finnish home loans compared with market leader OP-Pohjola Group with a 37 percent share, according to the
Federation of Finnish Financial Services.  S-Bank benefits from the extensive retail network of its
parent cooperative S-Group, similar to the banking branches of
Cheshunt, U.K.-based retailer  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  ICA Gruppen AB (ICA)  from
Solna,  Sweden . S-Group has 128 gas stations and 878 grocery
stores across the country with a 46 percent share of the Finnish
retail trade.  “We must be innovative and see what kind of opportunities
open when banks close branches in small towns,” Ylihurula said.
Still, “cashiers can’t sell milk with mortgages in the future
either.”  Profit Jumps  S-Bank’s first-half net income grew more than fourfold to
14.5 million euros from 3.3 million euros a year earlier, it
said in a statement today. The company has set “ambitious”
targets for expansion by 2020, including more than doubling its
fund capital, Ylihurula said. S-Bank is well-placed to inspire
more Finns to invest their extra cash instead of making deposits
in bank accounts, he said.  “We genuinely believe that we’ll be the agent that drives
people’s capitalism in Finland,” Ylihurula said. “It’s clear
that this bank will grow significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  