-- Fisher Says ‘Super-Easy’ Fed Can’t Alone Boost Manufacturing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-22T20:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/fisher-says-super-easy-fed-can-t-alone-boost-manufacturing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , one of the most vocal critics of bond
purchases by the central bank, said record Fed stimulus can’t
revive U.S. manufacturers from a two-year slump caused by
ambiguity in regulation and fiscal policy.  “They have been given abundant, super-cheap monetary fuel
needed to stoke up their production engines and expand their
businesses,” Fisher, who doesn’t vote on  monetary policy  this
year, said today in a speech in  Orlando ,  Florida . “What is
holding us back” is “fiscal and regulatory policy of the gang
that can’t shoot straight in  Washington .”  Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 30-31
meeting released yesterday show Fed officials are comfortable
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing bond
buying later this year if the economy improves. Treasury yields
reached two-year highs today as reports showed a strengthening
job market and a gain in economic indicators, suggesting the
expansion may be strong enough for the Fed to reduce stimulus.  “I would have liked to start cutting back earlier,”
Fisher said to reporters after his speech. “The economy is
strong enough” for slowing purchases.  The U.S. is “moving in the right direction” with the
performance of the job market, a trend that “has to be
evaluated against the costs of continuing” bond purchases, he
said.  ‘Very Balanced’  The Dallas Fed leader said he regarded the minutes from the
FOMC’s meeting last month as “very balanced -- to me, they were
neither hawkish nor dovish,” and “represented the conversation
perfectly well.”  U.S. stocks rose with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining 0.9 percent to 1,658.12 at 3:36 p.m. in  New York . The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at 2.89
percent.  Fisher said in his speech that “there are many risks in
the policy that the Fed has been pursuing,” without
elaborating. In an interview with Bloomberg Television, he
reiterated his view that the central bank should taper the $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting,
“provided that economic reports don’t disappoint.”  During a tapering, policy makers must be “careful not to
be disruptive” to financial markets, he said in the interview
with Megan Hughes.  The FOMC should first scale back purchases of mortgage-backed securities because the market for such debt is smaller
than the one for Treasuries, Fisher said. The central bank each
month is buying $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion in
mortgage bonds.  ‘Tough Business’  “That’s a tough business for us to be in because it’s a
very thin market,” Fisher said of the market for mortgage-backed securities. “We’re basically up to the point where we’re
going to be buying 100 percent of the issuance at some point and
nobody wants to be on the buy side to that extent, at least I
don’t want to be.”  The FOMC will probably vote next month to scale back the
unprecedented  stimulus program , according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first step may
be to reduce monthly purchases by $10 billion, according to the
median estimate in the survey of 48 economists. They said buying
will probably end by mid-2014.  Fisher declined to say who he believes should become the
next Fed chairman when Bernanke’s term expires in January,
adding that he would like Bernanke to stay on for a third term.  Bernanke’s “legacy will be someone who brought about a
totally innovative way to conduct central banking,” said
Fisher. “I love the guy. He’s led us very effectively.”  Fisher spoke today primarily about U.S. manufacturing.  ‘Great Gift’  “Every manufacturer of goods in America has been given a
great gift by your central bank -- the lowest cost of money in
237 years, an extension of the roaring bond market rally that
has now run 32 years and a broad stock market rally that began
in March of 2009,” Fisher said to a conference hosted by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the  National Retail Federation .  Fisher, 64, a former  money manager  and deputy U.S. trade
representative, has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005.
In 2011, he dissented twice against efforts to push down long-term borrowing costs and keep the benchmark  interest rate  near
zero for a prolonged period. He voted in favor of tighter policy
five times in 2008. His district includes  Texas , northern
 Louisiana  and southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  