-- Ford Says Yen Lets Japan Maintain Extra Auto Capacity
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-08-22T20:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ford-says-yen-lets-japan-maintain-extra-auto-capacity.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , stepping up
criticism of  Japan ’s auto industry, said a weaker yen lets
carmakers led by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  keep open plants that are
producing a vehicle glut and threatening U.S. job growth.  Production for automakers including Ford is constrained in
North America as U.S. sales rise, Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president
of operations in the region, said in an interview. At the same
time, the weaker yen is supporting exports from Japan, which IHS
Automotive estimates has 2 million vehicles of excess capacity.  “The industry is growing and capacities are a little tight
in North America,” Hinrichs said from Dearborn, Michigan, where
Ford is based. “Where is the extra available capacity going to
come from? If Japan’s one of those places, in lieu of more
manufacturing in the U.S., the American worker does lose in that
proposition.”  His comments build on remarks by Chief Executive Officer
 Alan Mulally , who in June said Japan was manipulating its
currency, and reflect a threat that Ford sees to continuing its
recent growth in the U.S. While the automaker has been the
industry’s biggest market-share gainer this year, Toyota outsold
Ford in July for its first monthly win since March 2010.  Building new auto plants or expanding existing factories
can be costly. Ford committed to $6.3 billion in investments
through 2015 for retooling and upgrading plants in its 2011
contract with the United Auto Workers union.  U.S. Market  Hinrichs, 46, is voicing concerns as a weaker yen makes
cars exported from Japan more profitable for its automakers.
Those companies, led by Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, have
production capacity available in Japan, and the U.S. is the most
attractive market for those vehicles.  Europe ’s auto market is on
pace for its worst year since 1993, and a territorial dispute
with  China  has crimped demand for Japanese autos.  The weaker yen is “clearly a threat, and the market
doesn’t know how to price it in yet,” Adam Jonas, an analyst
for Morgan Stanley based in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. While Japanese automakers’ plans to add North
American capacity should partially assuage Ford’s concerns,
Toyota and others still will benefit from yen-denominated parts
that are used to build those vehicles, he said.  U.S. automakers led by Ford have criticized Japan as the
yen has declined 12 percent against the dollar this year. U.S.
lawmakers have since pressed for provisions that would prevent
currency manipulation to be a part of a trade pact with Pacific-region nations including Japan.  Fusion, F-Series  Ford has said it plans to add almost 3,500 hourly workers
in the U.S. this year as it increases capacity to build 200,000
more vehicles annually in  North America  to meet increasing
demand for F-Series pickups and Fusion sedans.  The new employees will start at an entry-level wage first
agreed to by the UAW in 2007, which brought their pay closer to
what workers make at Japanese automakers’ U.S. factories. The
arrangement was extended by Ford and the UAW’s  2011 contract ,
which called for new workers to start at $15.78 an hour,
compared with about $28 for senior employees. The entry wage
rises to $19.28 by 2015.  Data released by the Detroit-based union’s Ford department
this week show the extent of Ford’s hiring in recent years. Ford
had 8,819 entry-level employees as of earlier this month,
according to the first report released from a  new section  of the
UAW department’s website.  Ford is permitted to hire 4,058 more employees at the entry
level before it has to begin transitioning workers to senior
worker wages, according to the  report .  Industry Revamping  The entry-level wage agreement was among the actions taken
as the U.S. auto industry restructured, culminating in the 2009
bankruptcies of the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford avoided bankruptcy by borrowing $23.4 billion in late
2006 and closing 16 plants from late 2005 through 2009 to bring
its production in line with demand.  Japan’s auto industry has yet to take similar steps to
reduce its output, Hinrichs said. While the nation’s automakers
have the capacity to build 11 million vehicles this year, they
probably will produce about 9 million, said Masatoshi Nishimoto,
a Tokyo-based analyst at IHS Automotive.  “North America went through its restructuring,” Hinrichs
said. “You look at Japan, and for lots of reasons, culturally
and otherwise, the industry hasn’t restructured the excess
capacity.”  Ford rose 1 percent to $16.41 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 27 percent this year as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has advanced 16 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  