-- GameStop Rises Most Since 2009 as Consoles Boost Forecast
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-08-22T20:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/gamestop-raises-full-year-outlook-as-consumers-await-new-console.html
GameStop Corp. (GME) , the largest
specialty retailer of video games, gained the most in more than
four years after raising its full-year profit forecast ahead of
the release of new consoles from  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The shares advanced 9 percent to $51.91 at the close in New
York, for the biggest jump since March 2009. The stock, which
has more than doubled this year,  led  the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index higher.  GameStop is gaining market share, executives said on a
conference call today with investors and analysts. That
positions the retailer to capitalize on spending for titles such
as  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s “Battlefield 4” and “FIFA 14,” and
the release of Sony’s PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One from
Microsoft. Both consoles reach stores for the holidays.  “We are positioned well for the upcoming console launches
and expect to be the dominant player during this cycle,” J. Paul Raines, GameStop’s chief executive officer, said on the
call.  Sony’s machine goes on sale in the U.S. on Nov. 15.
Microsoft follows a week later, according to  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles.  Profit for the fiscal year ending in January will be $3 to
$3.20 a share, more than the May 23  forecast  of $2.90 to $3.15 a
share, the Grapevine, Texas-based retailer said today in a
statement. Comparable-store sales, which exclude new outlets,
will range from a drop of 3.5 percent to a gain of 1.5 percent.
In May GameStop predicted the sales would range from a drop of 5
percent to growth of as much as 1.5 percent.  Disney’s Infinity  Disney’s “Infinity” interactive game is “off to a very
strong start, exceeding our expectations,” Tony Bartel,
GameStop’s president, said on the call.  Titles key to GameStop’s performance in the current third
quarter include “Grand Theft Auto V” from  Take-Two Interactive
Software Inc. (TTWO) ,  Activision (ATVI)  Blizzard Inc.’s “Skylanders: SWAP
Force,” and Nintendo Co.’s “Pokemon X&Y,” Bartel said. He
said GameStop expects to have more consoles available on the
first day than it did when the last round of machines began
selling.  Take-Two, based in New York, added 4.1 percent to $18.94.
Activision, based in  Santa Monica , California, gained 1.3
percent to $16.80.  Second Quarter  GameStop’s second-quarter profit fell 50 percent, as
consumers curbed purchases before the new consoles debut.  Net income shrank to $10.5 million, or 9 cents a share, for
the quarter ended Aug. 3, from $21 million, or 16 cents, a year
earlier, the retailer said. That topped the 4-cent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales declined 11 percent to $1.38 billion from $1.55
billion a year earlier, beating the $1.35 billion average of
analysts’ estimates. The retailer, along with console producers
and game publishers, has weathered a two-year drop in  consumer
spending  as play on social networks and mobile phones grew in
popularity.  (GameStop hosted a conference call at 11 a.m.  New York 
time. For a replay, go to  http://investor.gamestop.com )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  