-- Geely to Offer Vehicles Jointly Developed With Volvo in 2015
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/geely-to-offer-vehicles-jointly-developed-with-volvo-in-2015.html
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) ,
whose Chinese parent bought Volvo Cars in 2010, will start
selling vehicles jointly developed with the Swedish company in
2015 as it competes with foreign brands at home.  “We have entered into actual research and development
stage and I believe we can see the new product in the year after
next,” Geely Chief Executive Officer Gui Sheng Yue told
reporters yesterday at a briefing in  Hong Kong , without
elaborating on the new vehicle.  The joint development with Volvo, which built a reputation
around safety and reliability, may help burnish Geely’s image as
the Chinese carmaker seeks to become the country’s largest auto
exporter. The Swedish nameplate has begun test runs at its first
factory in  China  as it targets to double sales to 800,000
vehicles by the end of the decade.  “The economic environment in most of our major markets is
expected to become more difficult in the second half of 2013,
meaning that our operating environment should remain challenging
in the remainder of the year,” the Hong Kong-based company said
in a statement. “Competitive pressure on domestic brands in the
China market should increase considerably in the coming years as
most major international brands are strengthening their
presence.”  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., which bought Volvo from
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  for $1.8 billion in the biggest overseas purchase
by a Chinese automaker, signed a memorandum with the Swedish
company in March last year to “leverage its full access” to
technology to develop vehicles. Volvo in February said it will
establish a joint research and development center in Gothenburg,
 Sweden , with Geely.  Net Income  Geely reported first-half net income rose 37 percent to 1.4
billion  yuan , beating analysts’ estimates. Vehicle sales
increased 19 percent to 263,544 units in the first six months,
the company said, and maintained its full-year target at 560,000
vehicles.  The automaker is also preparing to introduce a series of
new-energy vehicles in the coming year to cater to an expected
increase in demand, it said in a statement.  Geely’s shares rose 0.5 percent to close at HK$3.86 in Hong
Kong yesterday. The stock has gained 5.2 percent this year,
compared with the 3.4 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  