-- Georgian Billionaire Premier Warns U.S. Ally Saakashvili of Jail
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m
-- 2013-08-22T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/georgian-billionaire-premier-warns-u-s-ally-saakashvili-of-jail.html
Georgia ’s billionaire prime minister
said outgoing President Mikheil Saakashvili may face prosecution
for corruption, brushing off warnings from the U.S. not to use
the courts to exact political retribution.  “All are equal under the law,” Bidzina Ivanishvili said
in an interview at his estate on the Black Sea. “Georgia was
smothered by the corruption of the elite and Saakashvili at a
minimum had to know about it or even participate in it.”
Saakashvili called the claim “ridiculous.”  Ivanishvili, who financed a coalition drive to defeat
Saakashvili’s pro-Western party and gain control of the
government last October, said he’ll step down and quit politics
by the end of the year. The 57-year-old billionaire, who made
most of his fortune in  Russia , is worth $6.4 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index, equal to about 40 percent of
Georgia’s economy.  The American-educated Saakashvili, 45, allied Georgia with
the U.S. after leading the Rose Revolution that overthrew former
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze’s government in
2003. Saakashvili’s second and final term ends in October and
dozens of officials from his party have been detained on
corruption charges, including a former premier.  “Investigators must prove it and the courts must decide,
but there are issues with him,” Ivanishvili said of
Saakashvili.  ‘One Aim’  Saakashvili rejected the corruption allegations as
politically motivated.  “Any hint even at corruption by my government or me are
ridiculous, especially from people who brought back the old
corrupt elites that we basically eliminated from power,”
Saakashvili said in an interview yesterday. “We had one of the
least corrupt governments in  Europe . Any kind of menaces from
this prime minister are aimed at only one thing -- to eliminate
political opposition in the country.”  In June, the U.S. House of Representatives condemned the
“political” arrests and prosecution of Saakashvili-era
officials, warning they would affect political, economic and
security cooperation with the U.S.  “The Americans and the Europeans had the wool pulled over
their eyes,” Ivanishvili said. “They’re in shock that what
they thought was the most democratic country in the region was
practically a dictatorship.”  The U.S. and European Union, which supported the Rose
Revolution and Ukraine’s Orange Revolution a year later, have
now lost steadfast allies in both countries, bolstering Russia’s
influence in its former Soviet empire.  NATO, EU  Saakashvili angered Russian President  Vladimir Putin  by
seeking to join the U.S.-led North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and the two countries fought a five-day war in 2008. Georgia is
a key route for Caspian energy supplies to world markets
bypassing Russia.  Ivanishvili campaigned on a promise to improve  living
standards , partly by securing an end to trade sanctions Russia
imposed to punish Saakashvili’s policies. The Georgian prime
minister said yesterday he remains committed to the previous
government’s goal of joining NATO and the EU, saying both may
happen within four years.  “I am sure we can reach an understanding with Russia and
live as neighbors,” Ivanishvili said. “We musn’t insult
them.”  Russia has already lifted its ban on  wine and mineral
water and may lift its ban on citrus fruits by the end of the
year, the billionaire said.  Balancing Act  Georgia, a country of 4.5 million people, has received $3
billion in aid from the U.S. over the past 20 years, including
$1 billion in military assistance. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration last month announced a new $140 million aid
package aimed at improving education in the former Soviet
republic, which borders  Turkey ,  Armenia ,  Azerbaijan  and Russia.  “Ivanishvili is faced with a challenge in keeping
Georgia’s Western allies on his side,” Lilit Gevorgyan, senior
analyst for Russia and the  Commonwealth of Independent States  at
IHS Global Insight, said by e-mail. “This is a particularly
difficult task when dealing with more conservative political
quarters in the West, where Ivanishvili is perceived as a
billionaire with close links with Russia.”  About 20,000 complaints have been filed by Georgian
citizens against former government officials, Ivanishvili said
in an editorial in the Wall Street Journal this month. Vano
Merabishvili, a former prime minister, has been charged with
abuse of office and embezzlement, which he denies.  U.S. Watch  Still, both the EU and the U.S. have criticized the
judicial pursuit of Saakashvili’s political allies by
Ivanishvili’s government.  “We believe strongly in the primacy of the rule of law and
this cannot become cover for political retribution,”   Victoria Nuland , a former U.S. State Department spokeswoman, said in July
at a confirmation hearing to become assistant secretary of
state. “The world is watching,” Nuland said. “Georgia’s got
to stay on a democratic path.”  Saakashvili won international plaudits for cutting red tape
and corruption and for helping the size of the economy triple
since 2003. He, too, has been criticized for judicial abuses and
for cracking down on political opponents.  Mass protests against Saakashvili’s government erupted a
few weeks before last year’s election over leaked footage
showing prison guards beating and raping male inmates with broom
handles and truncheons.  Saakashvili, angling to hold on to power after his term
ends, pushed through legislative changes that will make the
prime minister more powerful than the president after the
current head of state leaves office.  Ivanishvili’s Fortune  Ivanishvili made his fortune in banking and metals in
Russia during the 1990s before giving up his Russian citizenship
and selling his assets there to focus on Georgian politics. Born
in the Georgian village of Chorvila in 1956, he is the youngest
of five children. He worked as a cleaner in a factory in Tbilisi
to support himself while studying economics and engineering at
college.  The billionaire said his wealth has fallen over the past
year to about $5.4 billion, though by his own count, he’s given
away about $3 billion in Georgia, including on initiatives to
overhaul the police and military and rebuild theaters, museums
and churches.  Beach, Lemurs  There’s no sign of a declining fortune at his 38-hectare
 Black Sea  estate, which includes a private beach, two swimming
pools, two guest houses and a menagerie of lemurs, zebras,
peacocks, parrots and flamingos. His main residence, outside
Tbilisi, is a $50 million complex designed by Japanese architect
Shin Takamatsu.  Ivanishvili said he’ll stay active in Georgia after he
retires from politics, including through investment projects.
He’s currently trying to raise $6 billion, including $1 billion
of his own money, for a private equity fund that will invest in
tourism, agriculture, industry and energy projects alongside the
government.  The prime minister said he’ll also continue “keeping tabs
on the government,” though he dismissed speculation that he
intends to become a gray cardinal who controls events behind the
scenes.  “Why should I be an informal leader when I can be the
formal leader,” the billionaire said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Ureki, Georgia at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Ureki, Georgia at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm in Ureki, Georgia at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  