-- German CMBS Drives European Issuance to Four-Year High, S&P Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-22T09:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/german-cmbs-drives-european-issuance-to-four-year-high-s-p-says.html
Sales of commercial mortgage-backed
securities in Europe have accelerated to the highest in four
years, fueled by notes secured against housing loans in  Germany ,
according to Standard & Poor’s.  European issuance of CMBS totaled 5.4 billion euros ($7.2
billion) in the first half of the year, up from 3.2 billion
euros for all of 2012 and the most since 2009, according to an
S&P report published yesterday.  Investors in CMBS are seeking mortgage-backed bonds that
have low leverage, good quality underlying assets and a history
of reliable performance, S&P analysts wrote. The stable cash
flows of German multifamily CMBS, which are backed by pools of
residential properties rented out by commercial landlords, have
helped refinance deals maturing in 2013, according to the
report.  “The word CMBS conjures up commercial properties in dark
parts of Europe, but the multifamily deals are backed by housing
for average Germans who have a huge incentive to keep up
payments as this is their primary residence,” said Henry Cooke,
the London-based head of European ABS at  Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd ., which manages about $128 billion of assets
including European securitizations.  German property owner  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  issued the largest European
CMBS this year, raising 2.1 billion euros from the German
Residential Funding 2013-1 Plc transaction to repay a previous
mortgage-backed bond. BGP Investment Sarl, a real estate
investor based in Luxembourg, is seeking to raise about 386
million euros of CMBS secured by German residential mortgages.  “German multifamily deals have dominated European CMBS and
appeal to investors because they have stable cash flows and they
performed reasonably well throughout the crisis,” Arnaud Checconi, a London-based director of European structured finance
research at S&P, said in a telephone interview.  In the U.S., CMBS issuance has been boosted by a recovery
in property prices, according to S&P. It forecasts sales,
excluding those from government-sponsored agencies, to reach $65
billion by year end, exceeding the $48.4 billion sold in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  