-- Gold Fields to Buy Barrick Mines in Australia After Loss
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-22T08:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/gold-fields-posts-loss-will-buy-barrick-mines-for-300-million.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , which spun off
most of its South African assets this year, agreed to pay $300
million for three  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  mines in  Australia  after
posting a loss and scrapping its dividend in the second quarter.  Gold Fields will pay half the cost in cash and has the
option of paying the rest in shares or cash, Chief Executive
Officer  Nick Holland  said today in an interview. The company
swung to a net loss of $36 million in the second quarter,
compared with a $68.3 million profit in the first, it said today
in a statement. The stock fell as much as 8.2 percent.  “I don’t think the market is going to look favorably” on
the acquisition,’’ said Richard Hart, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Macquarie First South Securities Ltd. “It appears to
be earnings dilutive, so I’m not quite sure why they’ve done it.
At almost $1,200 an-ounce costs, there’s not much margin for
safety there.”  South African miners including Gold Fields are battling
rising power costs and union wage demands that exceed inflation
at a time when gold prices have dropped 28 percent from their
2011 peak.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  and  Harmony
Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  preserved cash by skipping dividends as gold
prices sank and the threat of strikes loomed this year.  Gold Fields will pay $300 million, subject to capital
adjustments of as much as $30 million, for Toronto-based
Barrick’s Yilgarn South Assets in  Western Australia , it said in
a separate statement.  Cash Generative  “We are buying assets that are in production and can be
cash generative very soon,” Holland said in the telephone
interview. “We can capture synergies pretty quickly. We’re
buying at the bottom of the cycle.”  The deal will add 452,000 ounces of annual production and
make Australia Gold Fields’ largest regional production center
at 42 percent, with Ghana accounting for 34 percent and  Peru  and
 South Africa  11 percent each, it said.  The area around two of the acquired mines, Lawlers and
Darlot, is “largely unexplored” and there is “good continuity
of mineralized zones” at the third, Granny Smith, he said.  Gold Fields was 7.6 percent lower at 60.89 rand in
Johannesburg trading by 10:08 a.m., after earlier falling the
most on an intraday basis since April 15.  Gold Fields spun off all of its South African assets, aside
from the largely mechanized South Deep mine, to create Sibanye
and focus on higher-growth sites in Australia, Peru and Ghana.  Ghana Mines  Barrick CEO Jamie Sokalsky, who took over in June 2012,
began selling assets and cutting costs before gold plunged in
April by the most in three decades in  London . The world’s
biggest gold producer plans to sell, close or trim output at 12
of its 27 mines where costs are higher than $1,000 an ounce, it
said Aug. 2.  Second-quarter production was 451,000 ounces of gold, 5
percent lower than in the previous three-month period, at a
total all-in cost of $1,572 an ounce. The net loss was driven by
$127 million of impairment charges taken at its Tarkwa and
Damang mines in  Ghana .  South Deep is unlikely to achieve the annual target of
700,000 ounces set for 2016, Gold Fields said in the statement.
An impairment charge related to the mine is “almost certain”
before the end of the year, Macquarie’s Hart said.  Gold dropped 0.1 percent to $1,365 an ounce by 9:35 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  