-- Goldman Managing Director Charged in East Hampton Rape
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/goldman-sachs-s-jason-lee-said-to-be-charged-with-rape.html
A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director was arrested and charged with first-degree rape after
he was accused of sexually assaulting a 20-year-old woman at a
home on  Long Island ,  New York .  East Hampton police responded to a report of a disturbance
at the home of 37-year-old Jason Lee on Clover Leaf Lane on Aug.
20 and learned that a woman had been sexually assaulted inside
the residence, where “several people had gathered,” according
to a statement by police.  The police statement didn’t identify Lee’s employer. Lee 
is head of convertibles at Goldman Sachs and has been placed on 
leave, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked 
not to be named speaking publicly about a private personnel 
matter.  Lee was arrested and charged with first-degree rape,
arraigned in East Hampton Justice Court Aug. 21 and released
after posting bail, police said. Police declined to comment
further on the arrest and phone messages left with the court and
the Suffolk County District Attorney’s Office weren’t 
immediately returned.  Brian DeSesa, a lawyer for Lee, said he was released on 
$20,000 bail.  ``This is a huge travesty. It's an injustice against 
Mr. Lee and we look forward to clearing his name,'' DeSesa said. 
``Once the story comes out, we are confident he will be cleared.''  A New York Times report said the alleged assault occurred
at a four-bedroom home Lee had rented with his wife. Edward 
Burke Jr., another lawyer for Lee, told the newspaper that Lee, 
who had rented the house for the month of August, had never
been in any trouble.  Leslie Shribman, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 