-- Libya Ports Closures to End in Next Few Days, Oil Guard Says
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-08-22T07:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/libya-ports-closures-to-end-in-next-few-days-oil-guard-says.html
Libyan tribesmen stepped up efforts
to persuade oil ports guards to end protests that curtailed the
North African nation’s crude exports, choking its economic
lifeline, a spokesman for the security force said.  “I expect the situation will ease in the coming few
days,” said Walid Hassan, spokesman for the Petroleum
Facilities Guard, in an interview yesterday from Tripoli. The
PFG is an 18,000-strong unit of Libya’s military force.  The guards on strike “number in the hundreds only,”
Hassan said of the armed men who seized in July control of the
main oil ports, including Es Sider, Libya’s largest with a
loading capacity of up to 350,000 barrels a day. Their protest
cut crude output to less than half the 1.6 million barrel-a-day
level pumped before the 2011 revolution which ousted Muammar
Qaddafi, costing the oil reliant economy at least $1.6 billion,
Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said on Aug. 15.  There are 4,000 men patrolling the petroleum facilities in
the eastern region, home to the Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Brega and
Zueitina terminals which, in addition to Hariga, in the far
east, export crude from Libya’s richest oil area.  Hassan confirmed that the prosecutor has ordered the arrest
of Ibrahim Al Jedran, head of the PFG’s central region force
after the newly appointed PFG commander Brigadier Idris
Bukhamada fired him for disobeying orders to reopen the ports.  Ruining the Economy  The PFG have been demanding more arms, vehicles and better
pay. They resorted to closing the ports in July when Al Jedran
and loyal PFG members accused the oil ministry of illegal oil
sales, prompting angry reactions from the government.  Prime Minister Ali Zaidan repeatedly accused the PFG of
ruining Libya’s economy in press conferences earlier this month.
The oil ministry has organized visits to Es Sider and Hariga to
show the media that every drop of oil is accounted for.  In a document dated Aug. 18, Libya’s state-run National Oil
Corp. declared force majeure on crude and refined product
exports from Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Zueitina and Brega ports. Oil
Ministry Inspection and Measurement Director Ibrahim Al Awami
yesterday said he expected the force majeure to end later this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  