-- Libya to Resume Oil Exports From Brega as Protests Ease
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-08-22T13:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/libya-to-resume-oil-exports-from-brega-as-protests-ease.html
Libya  said it will resume oil
exports from Brega, one of four ports where it declared force
majeure this week, as protests that shut the facilities since
end-July eased.  Brega may add some 90,000 barrels a day to Libya’s exports
that are running at 500,000 barrels a day, shipped through the
Zawiya terminal, in Western Libya, and the offshore loading
platforms of Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri. The other terminals,
where force majeure was declared on Aug. 18, Es Sider, the
nation’s largest, Ras Lanuf and Zueitina, remain shut. The oil
port of Hariga hasn’t resumed even though state-run  National Oil
Corp . didn’t include it in the list of halts.  Protests over pay and corruption allegations by members of
the Petroleum Facilities Guards curtailed the North African
nation’s output to less than half the 1.6 million barrel-a-day
level pumped before the 2011 revolution that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi . The closures impacted companies operating in the
eastern and central regions such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Marathon Oil Corp., Hess Corp. and ConocoPhillips, according
Bloomberg Industries analysis.  “NOC is hereby declaring a partial lifting of force
majeure situation concerning the oil operations in Mersa El
Brega loading port as of Thursday at 8:00 a.m.,” the company
said in a posting on its website today. “The circumstances that
caused the declaration of force majeure have improved.”  Officials from NOC have been meeting long-term buyers of
its crude in Istanbul to discuss the operational delays caused
by the port closures, two people with knowledge of the matter
said, asking not to be identified because the talks are private.  Benchmark Crude  Some cargoes for loading in August have already been
canceled while others were deferred to September, the people
said. Libya had planned to export 11.2 million barrels of its
benchmark Es Sider grade this month, according to a loading plan
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The nation is currently pumping
670,000 barrels of crude a day, an Oil Ministry official said
today.  Libyan tribesmen in the oil-rich eastern region stepped up
efforts to persuade oil ports guards to end their protests,
Walid Hassan, a spokesman for the Petroleum Facilities Guard,
said in an interview yesterday from Tripoli. The guards on
strike “number in the hundreds only,” he said.  Guard Arrest  Hassan confirmed that the prosecutor has ordered the arrest
of Ibrahim Al Jedran, head of the PFG’s central region force
after the newly appointed PFG commander Brigadier Idris
Bukhamada fired him for disobeying orders to reopen the ports.
The PFG is an 18,000-strong unit of Libya’s military force.  The PFG have been demanding more arms, vehicles and better
pay. They resorted to closing the ports in July when Al Jedran
and loyal PFG members accused the oil ministry of illegal fuel
sales, prompting angry reactions from the government.  The oil ministry has organized visits to Es Sider and
Hariga to show the media that every drop of oil is accounted
for. Prime Minister Ali Zaidan repeatedly accused the PFG of
ruining the nation’s economy earlier this month. The nation has
lost at least $1.6 billion since the dispute started, Oil
Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said on Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  