-- Icahn Says He Will Meet With Apple’s Cook on Buyback
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-08-22T20:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/icahn-says-he-will-meet-with-apple-s-cook-on-buyback.html
Activist investor  Carl Icahn ’s $1
billion stake in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is getting him dinner with the
iPhone maker’s Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook .  Icahn, who has amassed holdings in other technology
companies including  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to agitate for
change, is pushing Apple to return more cash to investors than
the $100 billion Cook has already committed in dividends and
buybacks through 2015. While Icahn’s stake amounts to a small
fraction of Apple’s $457 billion market value, he’s still
deploying posts on Twitter Inc. to pressure Cook to meet his
demands.  “Spoke to Tim,” Icahn wrote on Twitter today. “Planning
dinner in September. Tim believes in buyback and is doing one.
What will be discussed is magnitude.”  Cook has also faced calls to dole out more money to
shareholders from hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  of Greenlight
Capital LLC. Apple in April unveiled what it called the largest
share-repurchase program in corporate history after Einhorn
urged the company to return more of its cash.  “Tim Cook is a little bit of an unknown quantity in these
activist-investor games,” said  Erik Gordon , a business
professor at the University of Michigan. “Steve Jobs was a
known quantity -- he wouldn’t even pick up the phone.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, and Icahn didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has faced investor
concern about slowing growth. Profit fell 22 percent last
quarter and 18 percent in the three-month period before that.
The stock was down 5.6 percent this year through yesterday,
compared to a 15 percent gain for Stardard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Product Updates  Icahn is investing in Apple ahead of a batch of product
updates. Apple will unveil a new iPhone at a Sept. 10 event,
followed by the introduction of new iPads later in the year,
people familiar with the plans have said. The anticipation has
helped push the stock up 11 percent since June.  Icahn projects Apple’s stock can rise to more than $625 if
it buys back shares, a person familiar with his thinking said
earlier this month. Icahn wants Apple to borrow $150 billion at
a 3 percent interest rate to fund the purchases and avoid paying
more taxes, the person added.  Apple’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $502.96 at the
close in New York, leaving them down 5.5 percent so far this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  