-- ICBC to Lead China’s Big Banks in Posting Slower Profit Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T05:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/icbc-to-lead-china-s-biggest-banks-in-posting-slower-profit-gain.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s most profitable lender, and its three
largest local rivals are set to post the slowest earnings growth
since 2010 as  China’s economy  falters and bad loans jump.  The four banks, among the world’s nine biggest by market
value, will probably report combined second-quarter net income
of 207 billion yuan ($34 billion), an increase of 10 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Profit at the four largest
U.S. banks climbed 35 percent to $20.2 billion.  The slower earnings growth may weigh on Chinese banking
shares, already trading near record-low valuations on investors’
concern that an economy set to expand at the  weakest pace  in 23
years will curb loan demand and spark more defaults. Premier  Li
Keqiang  triggered higher funding costs for banks this year with
a crackdown on off-balance-sheet lending aimed at containing
risks from an unprecedented credit boom.  “ China ’s banks have entered a downward spiral on profit
growth,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Masterlink Securities Corp. “Loan margins are shrinking,
interest income is slowing and authorities are clamping down on
shadow banking while China’s economic slowdown has hindered
asset expansion.”  ICBC (1398) , the largest Chinese lender by assets, will probably
say on Aug. 29 that its net income climbed 9 percent to 67.4
billion yuan, allowing the Beijing-based company to retain its
spot as the world’s most profitable bank, according to the
analysts’ estimates.  Growth Slows  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest,
may post 6.3 percent growth in second-quarter net income on Aug.
25, the estimates showed.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
ranked No. 3 by market value and assets, will probably report a
15 percent gain on Aug. 28.  Bank of China Ltd. , also scheduled
to report earnings on Aug. 29, had an estimated 10.4 percent
profit gain.  Bank of Communications Co. , the fifth-largest, said on Aug.
21 net income rose 13 percent to $2.8 billion. It wrote off 4.8
billion yuan of soured debt in the first half,  according to
Citigroup Inc. analyst Simon Ho, helping limit the increase in
bad loans to 3 percent in the second quarter.  Shares of ICBC and eight other Chinese banks that trade in
 Hong Kong  have dropped by an average 10 percent this year,
compared with the 2.8 percent decline in the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  ICBC is trading at 5.6 times its estimated 2013
earnings, up from a record low of 4.76 times on June 25, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Construction Bank trades at 5.5
times its forecast profit.  Bond Investors  The  yield  on AAA-rated five-year commercial bank bonds has
climbed 44 basis points to 5.23 percent since the end of March,
according to an index from Chinabond, the government debt
clearinghouse, signaling growing concern that defaults may rise
and funding may remain tight.  The speculation has been exacerbated by the faltering
growth in China, whose economy will probably expand 7.5 percent
in 2013, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  last month. That would be the slowest pace
since 1990.  The outlook may sour even more for banks over the next
three years, according to Josh Klaczek, head of Asia financial
services at  JPMorgan Securities  (Asia Pacific) Ltd. Profits may
start to drop as asset quality deteriorates, revenue growth
slows and funding costs rise, he said July 31. Credit growth is
likely to slow to the mid-teens over the next 18 months, from 20
percent to 25 percent in recent years, he estimated.  Press officers at ICBC, Construction Bank,  Bank of China 
and Agricultural Bank declined to comment on the prospects for
their earnings.  Credit Boom  A lending spree of the magnitude that tipped Asian nations
into crisis in the late 1990s and preceded  Japan ’s lost decades
is putting pressure on China’s leaders to rein in credit.  The nation has made an unprecedented $6.2 trillion of bank
loans available to state-owned companies and local governments
since the end of 2008. The result: debt is about 200 percent of
China’s gross domestic product at a time when the economic
slowdown is making it harder for borrowers to repay loans,
Charlene Chu, a Beijing-based senior director of financial
institutions at  Fitch Ratings , said in April.  Premier Li has so far avoided economy-wide stimulus,
instead using targeted policies such as tax breaks and support
for small companies while curbing industrial overcapacity and
reining in financial risks to aid an economic restructuring.  Banking Measures  Key for lenders among those measures was the banking
regulator’s decision in March to tighten rules on wealth
management products, which yield higher rates than deposits for
savers. The People’s Bank of China in June also temporarily
refrained from providing short-term funds on the  interbank
market  used to finance off-balance-sheet lending and  other
credit  outside the banking system, known as shadow banking.  That drove  money-market rates  to a record, cutting off
smaller banks’ borrowing. The central bank at that time also
ordered lenders to improve management of their funding.  The credit crunch had an immediate impact on some banks’
operations. Shanghai-based BoCom reduced new lending and
temporarily suspended short-term billing financing in June to
maintain liquidity, Vice President Yu Yali told reporters Aug.
21.  Defaults Climb  The economic slowdown and a slump in export orders has
already reduced companies’ ability to pay back debt.
 Nonperforming loans  at Chinese banks rose for a seventh straight
quarter in the three months ended June 30 to 539.5 billion yuan,
extending the longest streak in at least nine years, according
to the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  The bad debt ratio at the four largest lenders may have
risen to 1.03 percent in the second quarter from 0.99 percent at
the end of March, according to  Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He recommends clients buy
ICBC, Construction Bank and Bank of China shares and remain
neutral on Agricultural Bank holdings.  The actual level of soured credit may be underestimated
because banks have moved loans off their balance sheets by
selling them to trust companies or repackaging them as wealth-management products sold to savers, according to Fitch’s Chu.
Local government financing vehicles, or LGFVs, have also avoided
defaults in part by getting new financing to pay for maturing
debt, Moody’s said in June.  ‘Biggest Risk’  “LGFVs and shadow banking are the biggest risk to China’s
banking system,” Masterlink’s Yuan said. “One of the reasons
why shadow banking can grow so fast is that banks are bypassing
regulations to provide lending to LGFVs through these non-bank
channels.”  Total local government debt may have risen 13 percent over
two years to 12.1 trillion  yuan  as of December 2012, Moody’s
estimated in June, citing a National Audit Office review. That
adds to risks that the central government will be forced to bail
out local authorities. Banks had advanced 9.7 trillion yuan of
loans to local government financing vehicles as of June 30,
according to the  banking regulator .  “This is a black hole,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Capital Securities Corp., referring to the local-government debt. “The explicit and implicit government
guarantee has covered up the real level of stress and a lot of
shenanigans to avoid defaults are going on.”  That situation will probably continue for the foreseeable
future, which will help the banks avoid reporting a surge in bad
loans, he said. Managing their funding costs and lending rates
may also help the largest lenders, Xie said.  “While the trend of a slowdown in profit growth is
irreversible, big banks may still surprise the market,” Xie
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  