-- Microsoft Says Bribery Investigation Includes Russia
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/microsoft-says-bribery-investigation-includes-russia.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, said it’s cooperating with federal authorities
investigating possible illegal activity by employees and
business partners in Russia and Pakistan.  The company takes every allegation seriously and will
cooperate fully with any government inquiries, John Frank,
Microsoft’s deputy general counsel, wrote in a blog posting
yesterday. Mark Murray, a spokesman for Microsoft, confirmed
that the software maker’s activities in Russia and Pakistan are
now part of an investigation.  The statement followed a Wall Street Journal report that
federal regulators are extending their examination of the
company’s relations with business partners that allegedly bribed
foreign officials for contracts. The investigation had earlier
looked into allegations made by a former Microsoft
representative in  China , and the company’s relationships with
resellers and consultants in Romania and  Italy , the newspaper
said.  John Nester , a spokesman for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and Michael Passman, a Justice Department
spokesman, didn’t immediately return e-mails seeking comment on
the probe.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said it employs
more than 50 people to investigate potential breaches of company
policy, as well as 120 more people to make sure the software
maker complies with local laws and regulations.  Microsoft said in March that that lawyers from the Justice
Department and the SEC were examining allegations that Microsoft
partners bribed foreign government representatives in exchange
for software contracts, following a Wall Street Journal report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net  and Ian King in San Francisco at 
   ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  