-- Miles & Stockbridge, Baker Donelson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/miles-stockbridge-baker-donelson-business-of-law.html
Seven intellectual property lawyers
will join Miles & Stockbridge PC on Aug. 26. The group
previously worked in the  Washington  office of Baker, Donelson,
Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz PC.  Susan McBee, Chester Moore, and David Woodward are joining
as principals, Richard Henderson as of counsel, Bryan Jones and
David Vanik as counsel, and Shazi Jiang as an associate. William
Brett Stauffer, a registered patent agent, will also join the
firm.  John Frisch, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Miles & Stockbridge said in a telephone interview yesterday that
the group “brings to the firm expertise in the life-sciences,
biotechnology, pharmaceutical and chemical areas. This was the
one substantive area of patent law that we didn’t have
covered.”  Miles & Stockbridge has more than doubled the number of IP
lawyers this year. In April, Michael R. Fleming, the former
chief administrative patent judge of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, joined the firm. Five other patent attorneys
have also joined recently.  The new lawyers primarily will be based in the firm’s
office in Tysons Corner, Virginia.  Baker Donelson spokeswoman Johanna Burkett didn’t return a
call seeking comment on the moves.  In the News  Diamond Foods to Pay $11 Million to Settle Investor Lawsuit  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  agreed to pay $11 million in cash to
settle a class-action lawsuit over accounting errors that led to
earnings restatements and ended its bid for the Pringles potato-chip brand.  Diamond also will issue 4.45 million common shares to a
settlement fund to resolve claims on behalf of investors who
bought stock from Oct. 5, 2010, to Feb. 8, 2012, the San
Francisco-based company said yesterday in a statement. Diamond
denied all claims of wrongdoing or liability in the suit, which
targeted the snack-and-nut company and two former officers.  “We believe this proposed settlement eliminates the burden
of further time, expense and risk related to the class action,”
Chief Executive Officer Brian J. Driscoll said in the statement.
The accord is valued at $96.1 million based on Diamond’s closing
share price Aug. 20, according to court documents filed
yesterday.  In February, a Delaware judge threw out an investor suit
against the company brought by a retirement fund for Hialeah,
 Florida , employees, saying their claims should be decided by a
court overseeing a similar case in  California . The retirement
fund had blamed directors for Diamond’s inability to file its
financial statements and derailing its planned $2.4 billion
acquisition of Procter & Gamble Co.’s Pringles division.  A portion of the $11 million settlement will be funded by
Diamond’s insurers, the company said. The accord is subject to
court approval.  Shares rose 19 percent yesterday to $22.79.  The case is In Re Diamond Foods Inc. Securities Litigation,
11-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  In the Courts  Fed Tells Judge Swipe-Fee Rule Rejection Will Be Appealed  The U.S. Federal Reserve is appealing a judge’s decision
that its rules on debit-card transaction fees were illegal, a
lawyer for the central bank said yesterday.  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest payments network, climbed 3
percent to $178.39 in New York yesterday, the most in almost a
month, as a successful appeal could help the company maintain
its market-share lead. Smaller rival  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  slid 0.5
percent to $619.31.  The Fed’s general counsel,  Scott Alvarez , asked U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon in Washington to keep the rules in
effect as long as the appeal is pending.  Leon had placed a stay on his July 31 ruling which held
that merchants were overcharged billions of dollars under the
Fed’s swipe fee set limits.  Unless Leon’s ruling is overturned on appeal, regulators
will need to revisit these rules.  In his ruling, Leon said the Fed considered data it wasn’t
allowed to use under the Dodd-Frank law in setting the cap on
debit-card transaction fees, known as swipe fees, at 21 cents,
and neglected to bolster competition in card networks.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Peabody Owes Health Benefits to Retirees, Appeals Court Says  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ’s health-care obligations to certain
retirees remain in effect despite the actions of its former
subsidiary Patriot Coal Corp. in bankruptcy, an appeals court
ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kathy Surratt-States in St. Louis in
May ruled in Peabody’s favor, denying Patriot’s request to hold
Peabody to its retiree obligations even as it scaled back its
own in bankruptcy. Peabody’s duty could change because of
Patriot’s actions in bankruptcy, the judge said.  Three judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals’ bankruptcy
appellate panel in St. Louis yesterday reversed. Their decision
covers benefits for about 3,100 retirees of Heritage Coal Co.,
which with Patriot was once part of Peabody Holding Co.  When Peabody spun the companies off in 2007, it said it
would be primarily responsible for the retiree benefits.  “Akin to a once amicable divorce gone awry, the parties
here disagree about the nature of their dissolution agreement
after one of them has experienced a change in circumstances,”
the judges wrote.  Patriot said it was pleased with the decision.  “Peabody should not be permitted to use Patriot’s
bankruptcy to escape its health-care obligations to thousands of
retirees,” Patriot Chief Executive Officer Bennett K. Hatfield
said in a statement.  Meg Gallagher, a Peabody spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the ruling. Both companies are
based in St. Louis.  The case In re  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , 12-bk-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  Law Firm Moves  Jones Day Adds New M&A Partner to Office in Atlanta  Ken Boehner joined the Atlanta office of Jones Day in the
firm’s mergers and acquisitions practice. He previously was a
partner at Bristows in  London .  Boehner’s corporate practice focuses on the life sciences
and technology, media, and telecommunications sectors, according
to a statement from the firm. He has broad experience advising
domestic and international clients on a variety of cross border
corporate transactions including mergers and acquisitions,
financings, joint ventures, private equity and venture capital,
and also works on development of strategies from intellectual
property assets.  “We’re delighted that Ken is joining us,” Robert Profusek, leader of Jones Day’s M&A practice said in the
statement. Boehner has a “wealth of experience,” particularly
in the telecommunications sector in both Europe and the U.S., he
said.  K&L Gates Adds Construction Partner to Office in Doha  Matthew Walker is joining the Doha, Qatar, office of K&L
Gates LLP. Walker, who previously practiced at Dentons LLP, will
join the energy, infrastructure and resources practice.  With a focus on construction law and dispute resolution,
Walker has significant experience in ICC arbitrations and
alternative dispute resolution in Qatar as well as in the wider
Middle East region and other countries. He also provides
construction advice and has worked on a range of projects in the
Middle East and the U.K.  “Matthew’s skills and experience are well known to K&L
Gates lawyers who have already worked closely with him on rail
and other projects in Qatar,” Michael Johns, administrative
partner of K&L Gates’ Middle East offices, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 