-- Lilly Cites Deep Concerns Over China Kickback Allegations
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-22T20:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/lilly-cites-deep-concerns-over-china-kickback-allegations.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the Indianapolis-based drugmaker, said it is investigating allegations its
employees paid Chinese doctors at least 30 million  yuan  ($4.9
million) in bribes and kickbacks.  Lilly allegedly gave bribes to Chinese doctors to promote
the sales of two diabetes drugs in  Shanghai  and the eastern
Chinese province of Anhui, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing a former senior manager of the company
identified by the pseudonym Wang Wei. Bribes and special
payments are common practice for selling products, the person
was cited as saying.  The allegations make Lilly, which has about 3,800 workers
in China, the third major global drugmaker accused of bribing
doctors in return for prescriptions.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based
in  London , and Paris-based Sanofi face investigations over
similar allegations, with four Glaxo employees having been
detained over allegations the company paid 3 billion yuan ($490
million) in spurious travel and meeting expenses as well as
trade in sexual favors.  “We are deeply concerned about the allegations made
against Lilly China,” Yan Connie Li, a Lilly spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail. “Although we have not been able to verify
these allegations, we take them seriously, and we are continuing
our investigation.”  The 21st Century Business Herald is a newspaper based in
the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou . Lilly  shares  rose less
than 1 percent to $52.46 at the close in New York.  Sanofi Case  In  Sanofi (SAN) ’s case, a whistle-blower said the drugmaker paid
about 1.69 million yuan ($280,000) in bribes to 503 doctors in
the country, the 21st Century Business Herald reported on Aug.
8. Government scrutiny has extended to other foreign drugmakers
and local hospitals since China’s Ministry of Public Security
detailed the Glaxo allegations on July 15.  Lilly said it was aware of similar allegations last year,
and conducted an investigation that failed to verify them. It
isn’t aware of any employees in China having been questioned by
authorities there in connection with the new allegations, and
none of its workers has been detained, said Amy Sousa, a U.S.-
based spokeswoman.  “We were made aware of very similar allegations in 2012 by
a former sales manager from the region that was mentioned in the
article,” Li said. “At the time of the allegations, we did an
exhaustive investigation to search for any evidence of
kickbacks. The investigation was very thorough and included
employee interviews, e-mail monitoring, and expense report
audits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  