-- IMI Seeks Purchases With Up to $1.6 Billion to Spend
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-22T12:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/imi-seeks-energy-purchases-with-as-much-as-1-6-billion-to-spend.html
(Corrects to remove Greek acquisition in eighth paragraph.)  IMI Plc (IMI) , a U.K. provider of
engineering equipment and services, plans to pick up its pace of
acquisitions in the  energy industry  after buying a Canadian
company that serves refineries.  IMI may spend as much as 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) on
purchases over the next five years, Chief Executive Officer
Martin Lamb said today in a phone interview.  “We have the capacity to make larger acquisitions,” Lamb
said after Birmingham, England-based IMI reported first-half
 earnings  that exceeded analysts’ estimates. “We love things
like liquefied natural gas and the petrochemical opportunities
are growing for us.”  IMI is interested primarily in the energy industry as shale
gas development in the U.S. boosts opportunities for it to serve
petrochemical producers. The maker of valves for the control of
liquid and gas flows also can benefit from nuclear energy
expansion in  China ,  Russia ,  India  and  Korea , the CEO said.  IMI  shares  rose as much as 6.5 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March 7, and were up 5.1 percent at 1,481
pence at 12:24 p.m. in London. That was the biggest advance
among companies on the  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  IMI stock has gained 35
percent this year, valuing the company at 4.7 billion pounds.  The U.K. company may make a series of acquisitions of 100
million pounds to 120 million pounds each, Lamb said. IMI is
well-placed to provide technology and services needed to upgrade
nuclear power reactors to meet new safety standards, he said.
There are already 432 operable civil reactors, according to the
 World Nuclear Association .  Canadian Purchase  IMI said today it bought Quebec-based Analytical Flow
Products for 5 million pounds and may pay an additional 36
million pounds over the next five years based on performance.  The company last year acquired Italian oil-field
engineering company Remosa SpA and Brazilian valve manufacturer
Grupo InterAtiva, for 100 million euros and 22 million pounds
respectively.  “Value-enhancing acquisitions” will feature in IMI’s
future, Scott Cagehin, an  analyst  at Numis Securities, wrote
today in a note. “Despite uncertain economic conditions,
margins should remain robust with positive pricing initiatives,
sales mix and cost reduction benefits,” said Cagehin, who
raised his share-price prediction 11 percent to 1,550 pence.  IMI, which also makes dispensers for soda pop, posted a 1
percent increase in adjusted pretax profit in the first half to
170 million pounds, exceeding the average analyst estimate of
164 million pounds in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue was little
changed at 1.09 billion pounds, while IMI said it anticipates
better trading conditions in the second half of the year.  IMI rose to its highest in at least 25 years on July 19
after Citigroup Inc. named it one of its most preferred stocks,
saying that the company has “further significant margin
upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  