-- Tin Smelters in Indonesia to Start Trading Through Exchanges
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-08-22T10:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/tin-smelters-in-indonesia-to-start-trading-through-exchanges.html
Thirty tin smelters in  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest exporter, agreed today to start trading the
metal on a local exchange to comply with a government rule that
comes into force this month.  The smelters will begin trading in early September with
about 100 importers on the  Jakarta Futures Exchange , which will
introduce a dollar-denominated and electronically-traded
contract on Aug. 28, said Tjahyono Mukmin, president director of
the Serumpun Tin trading board. That will replace bilateral
dealings between producers and importers.  Indonesian smelters are backing local exchanges to try to
establish an alternative to the benchmark on the London Metal
Exchange. The government, which enforced new purity standards
last month, also ordered that ingots for exports must be traded
locally from Aug. 30. Four producers, including the country’s
biggest PT Timah, started trading the INATIN contract on the
Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange last year. The
country has a total of 47 producers registered as exporters.  “This will change smelters’ trading to electronic
trading,” M. Bihar Sakti Wibowo, director of the Jakarta
Futures Exchange told reporters today in Pangkalpinang, Bangka
Belitung, the main producing area. “Sellers will put offers and
their brands on our trading system and buyers can bid.”  The tin contract, which will be quoted in U.S. dollars,
covers 5 tons of metal with purity of 99.9 percent and traded in
three sessions starting from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. Jakarta time,
according to a statement distributed to reporters today.  ‘Pricing Fundamentals’  Trading in local exchanges will not “change the pricing
fundamentals,” said Feng Juncong, an analyst with  China ’s
state-owned Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. “Major
smelters are used to reaching contracts with their clients on
the basis of the LME prices.”  Futures for three month delivery traded at $21,899 a metric
ton on the LME at 5:07 p.m. in Jakarta. Prices have risen 7.4
percent this month as Indonesian  exports  plunged 42 percent to
6,466 tons in July when the new purity standards came into force,
raising the minimum tin-content limit. That’s the biggest drop
in shipments since January 2012.  “The main purpose for Serumpun Tin is to create
competitive and transparent prices,” Mukmin told reporters in
Pangkalpinang today.  The smelters that will trade Serumpun Tin include CV
Serumpun Sebalai, PT Bukit Timah, PT Bangka Belitung Timah
Sejahtera and PT DS Jaya Abadi, said Mukmin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  