-- Rupee Forwards Rally as India Flags Focus on Financial Stability
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-23T03:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/india-flags-need-to-retain-stability-as-rupee-drops-on-u-s-risk.html
Offshore rupee forwards advanced the
most in two weeks after the  Reserve Bank of India  said the
nation’s economic and monetary policies must focus on preserving
financial stability as the U.S. prepares to cut stimulus.  Weakness in the local currency, which tumbled almost 15
percent this year, could fuel already “high” consumer-price
inflation, the central bank said in its annual report released
in Mumbai yesterday.  Asia ’s No. 3 economy also faces risks from
a current-account deficit that’s not sustainable, slowing
growth, a budget gap and rising bad loans at banks, it said.  The rupee plunged to a record low and benchmark Indian bond
yields surged to a 12-year high this week as the prospect of a
reduction in the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus fueled a capital
flight from  emerging markets . The RBI plans to buy long-dated
government debt today in an attempt stabililze markets after
rising volatility threatened to hurt an economy that is already
growing at near the slowest pace in a decade.  “The RBI has no choice but to maintain financial stability
at this point, which means sacrificing growth in the near
term,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai.  One-month rupee non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.8
percent to 65.04 per dollar today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the local  spot market , the rupee touched an all-time low 65.56 per dollar yesterday. The yield on the 7.16
percent government bond maturing May 2023 has fallen to 8.24
percent from 8.90 percent on Aug. 16. The S&P BSE Sensex  index 
lost 1.5 percent this week.  Rupee ‘Overshot’  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and  Reserve Bank 
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao held co-ordinated briefings in  New
Delhi  yesterday to try to soothe investors’ nerves.  Excessive pessimism is unwarranted, economic expansion will
pick up as the year progresses and the rupee’s drop has overshot
appropriate levels, Chidambaram said.  India  has no intention of imposing  capital controls , he and
Subbarao said. The Reserve Bank last week cut the amount Indian
companies can invest abroad without approval and said residents
can remit $75,000 per financial year, down from $200,000.  “Macroeconomic and monetary policies need to be carefully
calibrated to achieve the immediate objective of maintaining
stability without compromising growth,” the central bank said.  The monetary authority reiterated that the steps since mid-July to tighten liquidity “are intended to be rolled back in a
calibrated manner” as the rupee stabilizes, so that policy can
revert to supporting growth and containing inflation.  Tightening Measures  The Reserve Bank since July 15 has raised the marginal
standing facility and bank rates, capped cash injections into
the banking system and tightened lenders’ daily reserve
requirements to curb the supply of rupees. On Aug. 20, it
announced the plan to buy long-dated government debt.  “It’s a considered policy of the RBI that while we
increase the  interest rates  at the short end in order to make it
difficult for the speculators, we try to keep interest rates at
the long end lower in order to promote growth and investment,”
Chidambaram said.  The current-account gap may narrow in 2013-2014 from the
record 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months
ended March, while remaining “much above” the sustainable
level of 2.5 percent of GDP, the RBI said.  Chidambaram said last week curbs on gold and silver imports
and plans to compress inward shipments of non-essential items
will trim the current-account gap to $70 billion, or 3.7 percent
of GDP, this fiscal year. He said yesterday the shortfall may be
less than $70 billion.  Subbarao said India’s foreign exchange reserves are
adequate to manage the current situation.  Bad Loans  The central bank also said in the report that “utmost
attention” is needed to contain rising financial stability
risks from deteriorating asset quality at banks.  The government began reforms in September 2012 to restrain
the  budget deficit , accelerate stalled infrastructure projects
and ease restrictions on foreign investment in industries from
aviation to retailing.  The administration is striving to avert a credit-rating cut
that may hurt India’s ability to fund the trade imbalance.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday recent pressures on India’s
markets aren’t a trigger for rating action at this point.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 9.64 percent in July from a year
earlier, the second-fastest in the Group of 20 major economies.
Wholesale prices advanced 5.79 percent, exceeding the central
bank’s comfort zone of about 5 percent.  India’s $1.8 trillion economy will  expand  5.5 percent in
the year through March 2014, central bank estimates show,
compared with a decade-low 5 percent in the previous 12-month
period as investment moderated.  About 826 million of India’s 1.2 billion people live on
less than $2 per day, according to the  World Bank .  “Recovery is possible and can take shape later in
2013-2014, but is predicated on better governance, the removal
of supply constraints and maintenance of stability,” the
central bank said. Healthy monsoon rains augur well for
agriculture and rural demand, the RBI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  