-- India Rupee Drops to Record as Fed Minutes Signal Stimulus Taper
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-22T12:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/india-rupee-drops-to-record-as-fed-minutes-signal-stimulus-taper.html
India ’s rupee slumped to an all-time
low after Federal Reserve minutes showed the U.S. is getting
closer to reducing stimulus that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  Fed policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing bond buying
later this year if the world’s largest economy improves, with a
few saying tapering might be needed soon, according to the
minutes of their July meeting released yesterday. Global funds
have cut holdings of Indian debt by $10.1 billion since Bernanke
first flagged the paring on May 22, leaving the rupee vulnerable
to the nation’s current-account deficit.  “Some of the reasons for the rupee’s fall are out of
India’s control, which is probably why policy makers have
stepped back a bit and let the rupee find it’s own
equilibrium,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “The longer-term issue is that
India needs to suppress its current-account deficit, and that’s
something policy makers should focus on by encouraging exports
and investment into key sectors like retail and
infrastructure.”  The rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 64.63 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched a record low of 65.56 earlier. The central
bank probably sold dollars, according to two traders with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named as the
information isn’t public. The rupee could drop further to 68 or
even 70 by next week, Westpac predicts.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
141 basis points, or 1.41 percentage point, to 16.99 percent.  Buying Bonds  The  Reserve Bank  of India said Aug. 20 it will start buying
government debt to pump funds into markets and consider reducing
weekly sales of cash-management bills to rein in a surge in bond
yields that threatened the economy. The central bank engineered
a cash crunch in  Asia ’s third-largest economy last month to
shore up the rupee.  The RBI will buy 80 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) of bonds
through open-market operations tomorrow and “thereafter
calibrate them both in terms of quantum and frequency” based on
market conditions, it said in the Aug. 20 statement. Sales of
cash-management bills will be adjusted going forward,
“including scaling it down as may be necessary,” the monetary
authority said.  “The  Reserve Bank of India  has begun a gradual reversal of
the liquidity tightening since mid-July,” analysts at Barclays
Plc including New York-based  Joseph Abate  wrote in a research
report yesterday. “The measures triggered in multiple stages
since July 15 were unduly harsh on market liquidity and the
interest-rate spectrum, and ultimately proved counter-productive
for the rupee.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.7 percent to
66.34 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.8 percent to 66.74. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  