-- Indian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Loss; Tata Steel Advances
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-08-22T06:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/indian-stocks-swing-between-gains-loss-tata-steel-advances.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks swung between gains
and losses. Metal stocks climbed as automakers declined.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the country’s biggest producer of the
alloy, jumped 5.7 percent, leading advances among peers after
Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its outlook on metal producers to
overweight from underweight, citing a weak rupee. Explorer  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  rebounded from a nine-month low. Tractor
producer  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  dropped for the sixth day.  The S&P BSE Sensex gained 0.3 percent to 17,956.88 at 12:23
p.m. in Mumbai, after changing direction at least nine times.
Volume was 57 percent higher than the 30-day average for this
time of day. The measure slumped 7.6 percent in the past four
days, the most since July 2009, amid concern government steps to
steady the rupee may curb economic growth. The currency slid to
a record 65.5050 per dollar after the Federal Reserve minutes
showed the U.S. is getting closer to reducing stimulus.  “There could be a bit more pain as the currency is still
in an unchartered territory,” Gaurang Shah, assistant vice
president at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd., said on
Bloomberg TV India today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped for a sixth day today
after minutes of the Fed’s July meeting showed officials were
“comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plans to start
reducing the $85 billion monthly stimulus.  Global funds  have
withdrawn $12.2 billion from local stocks and bonds since May
22, when Bernanke made his first comments about the possibility
of the U.S. central bank curbing bond purchases. The rupee has
depreciated 13 percent in the same period.  Tata, Sesa  Tata Steel rallied 14 rupees to 258.3 rupees, increasing
this month’s gains to 22 percent. The stock slumped to its
lowest close since March 2009 on Aug. 2.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,  Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  and Hindustan Zinc Ltd., controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , rose at least 2 percent.  Sterlite will be replaced with Sesa in the S&P BSE Sensex
after its merger with the latter, the BSE said in a statement
yesterday. Hindustan Zinc soared 5.5 percent to 114.2 rupees.  Improvements in the global economy and the falling rupee
will boost earnings of Indian metal producers, Nomura analysts
led by Prabhat Awasthi wrote in a note. The S&P BSE Metal index
gained 3.1 percent, paring its year-to-date loss to 33 percent.  Oil &  Natural Gas  jumped 4 percent to 260.8 rupees, ending
a four-day, 13 percent slide. India’s largest state-owned oil
explorer will share  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s KG-D6 gas basin
infrastructure, a move that will save it $700 million in
expenditure, the Economic Times reported today.  Mahindra declined 2.2 percent to 767 rupees, taking its
six-day fall to 12 percent. Carmaker  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) 
slumped 3.3 percent to 1,242.05 rupees.  An exodus of cash from India has left the rupee vulnerable
to a current-account shortfall that widened to an unprecedented
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March,
official data show. Asia’s third-largest economy expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade in the same year.  The slowdown and a weak rupee is hurting company earnings.
Combined profits for the 30 companies in the Sensex increased
1.4 percent in the three months ended June compared with an
estimate of 5.8 percent before the reporting season began, Bank
of America Corp. analysts Jyotivardhan Jaipuria and Anand Kumar
wrote in a report dated Aug. 19.  About 47 percent of Sensex companies that posted earnings
for the June quarter missed analyst estimates. That compares
with 27 percent for the March quarter, and 43 percent in the
three months ended December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has lost 8.2 percent this year and  trades  at
12.7 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.7 times.  The CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India
increased 0.2 percent to 5,310.35, rebounding from its lowest
level since Sept. 6. India VIX, which gauges the cost of
protection against losses in the Nifty, rose 5 percent,
extending its four-day climb to 58 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  