-- India’s Top Court Allows Verdict on Teenager in Gang Rape Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-22T06:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/india-s-top-court-allows-verdict-on-teenager-in-gang-rape-trial.html
India ’s  top court  said a juvenile
justice board is free to deliver a verdict on a teenager accused
of the gang rape and murder of a student after it was delayed
four times pending a plea for tougher punishment.  A tribunal in the nation’s capital will be allowed to
announce its decision when it meets on Aug. 31, according to
Subramanian Swamy, a leader belonging to the opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party  who petitioned the  Supreme Court  seeking
a fresh  interpretation  of the laws of criminal responsibility.
The verdict originally was deferred as the board waited
direction from the higher court.  The Dec. 16 attack on the 23-year-old medical student
aboard a moving bus produced such revulsion and outrage that it
quickly became a symbol of the dangers faced by women in the
world’s second-most populous country. If found guilty, the
teenager faces a maximum three-year stay in a remand home or
jail, a penalty criticized by some lawmakers as unduly lenient.  “The court has given freedom to the juvenile justice board
to pronounce its verdict and that is because my petition may go
on for another three or four months,” Swamy said, speaking to
reporters outside court.  Prosecutors have sought the death penalty for the other
four men being tried for the same crimes in a separate,
specially convened fast-track adult court.  Demonstrations and violent protests that followed the
attack and the woman’s death later the same month spurred the
government to pass laws imposing stricter punishments for sexual
assaults and to set up fast-track courts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  