-- Indiana Sued Over Abortion Law Allegedly for One Clinic
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-22T18:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/indiana-sued-over-abortion-law-allegedly-for-one-clinic.html
Indiana laws redefining abortion
clinics to include facilities that provide only an abortion-inducing pill were passed to target a single dispensary,  Planned
Parenthood  of Indiana and  Kentucky  said in a lawsuit.  The group claims the legislation, which takes effect on
Jan. 1., was enacted to “single out” its Lafayette, Indiana,
facility, forcing it to meet surgical-clinic standards even
though no surgical procedures are performed there, according to
a complaint filed today in U.S. court in Indianapolis.  “Imposing requirements for such things as surgical scrub
facilities and surgical recovery rooms, when there is no
surgical procedure ever performed at the clinic, is not only
unreasonable, it is utterly irrational,” according to the
complaint.  The organization seeks a court order blocking enforcement
of the provisions it claims only apply to the Lafayette facility
and a finding that the legislation is unconstitutional.  Lafayette, a city with a population of about 56,000
according to  its website , is located between Chicago and
Indianapolis.  Purdue University  sits across the Wabash River in
 West Lafayette .  State Attorney General Greg Zoeller said in a statement
today that his office will defend the legislation, which he
described as regulating facilities that perform “chemical
abortion procedures” in the same way as those that perform them
surgically.  ‘Elected Representatives’  Zoeller said it was his duty to defend “the authority of
the people’s elected representatives to make public policy
decisions.”  The Planned Parenthood affiliate is based in Indianapolis.
It is represented by attorneys with the  American Civil Liberties
Union .  The case is Planned Parenthood of Indiana and Kentucky Inc.
v. Commissioner, Indiana State Department of Health, 13-cv-01335, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Indiana 
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  