-- Indonesia Plans Policy Stimulus to Woo Investors And Help Rupiah
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-08-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/indonesia-plans-policy-stimulus-to-woo-investors-and-help-rupiah.html
Indonesia  plans policies that may
include a fiscal stimulus and tax holidays for companies, as the
country relies on investment to shore up a current account
deficit and flagging economic growth.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  may announce the
stimulus and tax changes today as part of a policy package to
address the economic situation, Firmanzah, a senior official at
the presidential office, told reporters in Jakarta yesterday.
The government will also speed up a planned revision of limits
on foreign investment in certain industries, Hatta Rajasa, the
senior minister for the economy, said yesterday, without
elaborating when it will be announced.  The government is seeking to take action as the rupiah fell
4 percent and the Jakarta stock  market  slid 8.7 percent in the
first four days of this week, after worse-than-expected economic
data. Indonesia’s current-account deficit widened to a record in
the second quarter and foreign direct investment grew at its
slowest pace in three years.  “Tax holidays might interest some more investors but that
is not an overnight fix,” Keith Loveard, head of risk analysis
at Concord Consulting in Jakarta, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Nothing has been done during the good times to fix the
structural problems.”  Economic growth has held above four percent since Yudhoyono
came to power in 2004, and he gave a favorable assessment of his
record in a speech on Aug. 16. Expansion has slowed for the last
four quarters, dipping below 6 percent in the three months
through June for the first time since 2010. It will be difficult
to reach the government’s target of 6.3 percent this year,
Yudhoyono told reporters on Aug. 21.  Share Buybacks  Dealing with the current-account deficit and stabilizing
the rupiah were two of the main priorities, Rajasa said
yesterday, after a flurry of ministerial meetings to work on the
package. The government is coordinating its policies with the
private sector and the monetary authority, he said.  The central bank raised  interest rates  by a total of 75
basis points in June and July to calm food and fuel price
pressures that drove inflation to a four-year high in July.  The country needs aggressive monetary tightening such as
raising the central  bank rate  and reducing liquidity, otherwise
the selling pressure on the rupiah may continue, Irene Cheung, a
strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ)  in
 Singapore , said yesterday in an interview.  Bank Indonesia  needs
to raise the policy rate by 50 basis points, Citigroup Inc wrote
in a note to clients on Aug. 21.  The government may introduce policies to reduce the balance
of payment pressure, including incentives to boost exports and
investment inflows,  Euben Paracuelles , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc, in Singapore, said in an interview yesterday. It
may also signal increased spending on projects, while
regulations to allow state-owned companies to buy shares and
help stabilize bonds are likely, he said.  The government has already given state-owned firms the go-ahead to buy back shares, and some firms are seeking shareholder
approval to do so, Dahlan Iskan, the state enterprises minister,
told Bloomberg TV Indonesia yesterday, without giving details on
firms.  “We’re studying whether we will buy back our shares,” Dwi Soetjipto, president director of state-owned cement maker  PT
Semen Indonesia (SMGR) , told reporters on Aug. 21. “We still don’t
understand why everyone is panicking on the financial
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  