-- Mirvac Profit Drops 66% on Housing Development Writedowns
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-23T07:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/mirvac-profit-drops-66-on-residential-development-writedowns.html
Mirvac Group (MGR) ,  Australia ’s  third-biggest diversified property trust  by market value, said full-year profit dropped 66 percent after taking impairments on some
residential developments.  Net income fell to A$139.9 million ($126 million) in the 12
months to June 30, from A$416.1 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement today. Operating
earnings per share will be between 11.7 Australian cents and 12
cents in fiscal year 2014, up from 10.9 cents in the 12 months
ended June 30, it said.  Mirvac in May said it would focus on high-quality offices
and investment partnerships to increase returns after writedowns
of A$273.2 million in its residential development business
weighed on first-half performance. The company purchased A$584
million of office buildings from  GE Capital ’s local real estate
arm, and is in due diligence with investors for its planned
office investment joint venture “club,” Chief Executive
Officer Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz said today.  “We’re really focused on the office club,” Lloyd-Hurwitz
said in a telephone interview, without specifying a time frame.
“We’re in discussions with a number of investors about
participating in the office club with 50 percent to be held by
Mirvac and 50 percent by a small number of investors.”  While Mirvac also has plans for similar clubs for other
parts of its business, it doesn’t have advanced plans for them
yet, she said.  Mirvac  shares  rose 1.5 percent to A$1.665 at the close of
trading in Sydney, compared with a 0.9 percent increase in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Investment Assets  Mirvac had A$6.8 billion of investment assets as of June
30. Its investment division recorded a 3.5 percent increase in
net operating income, it said.  The company, which sold A$189.7 million of lower-quality
assets during the year, will dispose of as much as A$150 million
of properties in fiscal year 2014, Lloyd-Hurwitz said today.  “The things we’re selling are non-core to us, so they’re
not in the category of high-quality assets that everybody wants
to hold for the long term,” she said. “So that’s why we take a
flexible approach to making sure we’re putting assets into the
market at the right pace, in the right segments when we think
there’s an opportunity. They’re on average, more difficult
assets to sell.”  Housing Recovery  In its residential  division , Mirvac achieved 1,809 lot
settlements, compared with its target for sales as high as
1,700. It forecasts either improvements or little change in
performance in its markets.  “In New South  Wales , Victoria and Perth, we’ve seen some
price growth and improvement in market conditions but I’ll
temper that comment by saying that southeast Queensland is still
very fragile,” Lloyd-Hurwitz said. “So tentatively, yes, we
think the worst is over.”  Chairman James MacKenzie, who has held his position since
2005, will step down at the company’s annual investor meeting in
November, he said in a statement yesterday. The board is
considering a  succession plan , he said.  Mirvac’s dividend will be 8.7 Australian cents for the
year, from 8.4 cents 12 months earlier, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  