-- Israel Chemicals Falls to 4-Year Low on Potash: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-08-22T15:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/israel-chemicals-set-for-5-year-low-on-potash-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  closed at the
lowest level in more than four years as the  Soviet Union ’s two
largest potash producers showed little sign of reviving a pact
that helped support prices of the nutrient.  The  shares  of the potash- and fertilizer-manufacturer
dropped as much as 3.4 percent and traded down 0.2 percent to
26.41 shekels in Tel Aviv, the lowest since January 2009. The
stock fell for an eighth day and is this year’s worst performer
in the TA-25 index after slumping 41 percent. That compares with
a gain of 1.3 percent for the benchmark index.  Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank in
Moscow, said he doesn’t expect Belarus’s Belaruskali and  OAO
Uralkali (URKA)  in  Russia  to be back working together “very soon.”
Israel Chemical’s slide this year also follows  Canada ’s Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. scrapping a proposed takeover in
April and the Israeli government saying in June it will review
tax and royalties policies on natural resources. Corn dropped
for the second time in three days.   “The negative news continues to flow and that is putting
pressure on the shares,” said Ilanit Sherf, an analyst at
Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, who has a hold rating
on the shares. Sherf is reviewing the recommendation.  A pact between Belaruskali and Uralkali helped to buttress
prices for eight years in the global market for potash, a vital
nutrient for corn and soybeans. That partnership fell apart at
the end of July when Uralkali accused the other producer of
undermining their sales accord and quit a trade venture,
forecasting global potash prices may fall about 25 percent as it
plans independent shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  