-- Mitsubishi Delays Delivery of MRJ on Certification Issue
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-08-22T10:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/mitsubishi-said-to-delay-delivery-of-regional-jet-by-a-year.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) ’s
aircraft unit, which is making Japan’s first regional passenger
jet, pushed back the delivery of its first plane by more than a
year after delays in certification.  Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.  will hand over its first plane in
the second quarter of 2017, instead of an earlier plan to
deliver by March 2016, the company said in a statement in  Tokyo 
today. The aircraft’s initial test flight has been delayed to
the second quarter of 2015 as against in the last three months
of this year.  This is at least the second postponement after the company
said in April 2012 that the first flight was delayed to confirm
fabrication processes and complete technical studies. The
Japanese company’s decision would follow  Commercial Aircraft
Corp. of China  pushing back the maiden test flight of the
country’s first large passenger plane to 2015 from an earlier
plan for next year.  “The development of an aircraft is not easy and one will
obviously face some difficulty to make and deliver the planes,”
said Yukihiro Kumagai, an analyst at Jefferies  Japan   Ltd. in
Tokyo. “I am also concerned about the impact on Mitsubishi from
this delay.”  Design and certification have taken “greater resources”
than anticipated, Mitsubishi Aircraft said in the statement.  Embraer, Bombardier  That “impacted component deliveries and aircraft
fabrication,” the company said. Assembly of the first test
airframes is under way in preparation for the ground and flight
tests. ANA Holdings Inc. is the first customer for the plane.  “We regret the delay in the jet’s deliveries,” Ryosei Nomura, a Tokyo-based spokesman for ANA, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will examine the impact and make appropriate
adjustments in order to avoid changes to our future plans.”  Mitsubishi Aircraft, based at Nagoya, Japan, is building
78- and 92-seater versions of the MRJ to compete with planes
from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA  as
it forecasts global demand for 5,000 similar-sized aircraft over
the 20 years to 2030.  Mitsubishi Aircraft, 10 percent owned by  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , has orders for 325 aircraft, according to the statement
today. Of that, 165 are firm and the remainder in options.
Mitsubishi won an order for 200 planes including options, worth
 $8.4 billion  at list prices, last year from U.S. commuter
carrier SkyWest Inc.  Russia, China  “As for our orders, we don’t expect the delay to have any
major impacts,” Teruaki Kawai, president of Mitsubishi
Aircraft, said at a press conference in Tokyo today. The delay
in the development process is not because of engine development,
he said.  Pratt & Whitney , an  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  company,
is the engine maker for the Japanese jet.  The Japanese planemaker and China’s Comac follow Russian-built Superjet, a venture between Sukhoi and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
to develop planes with a capacity to seat about 90 people.
Interjet, the Mexican low-cost airline, was the first carrier
outside the former  Soviet Union  to operate the Superjet after
getting delivery in June.  Comac delayed the flight of C919, a 168-seat aircraft,
because of certain procedures that aren’t linked to technical
matters, four company officials familiar with the plan said this
month. In November, the Chinese planemaker said its smaller
ARJ21 may not enter service for another two years.  Weak Yen  Mitsubishi in March said it is set to reap the benefits of
a weakening yen after securing more than $4 billion of contracts
for its plane when the currency was near a record high against
the dollar. The Japanese yen has declined more than 19 percent
in the past year.  The Japanese aircraft maker has won 325 orders, including
options, for the plane, topping the company’s goal of as many as
250 planes before the Mitsubishi Regional Jet’s first flight,
Chief Executive Officer Hideo Egawa said in an interview in
Tokyo on March 8.  Bombardier wants to add a salesperson dedicated to Japan to
win orders from All Nippon Airways Co. and Japan Airlines Co.
for its CSeries jet, which seats 110 to 130 passengers, Andy Solem, vice president of sales for  China  and North Asia, said in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  