-- J.C. Penney Adopts Plan to Protect Against Takeovers
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-08-22T20:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/j-c-penney-adopts-plan-to-protect-against-takeovers.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  adopted a
shareholder rights plan to protect against takeovers for a year
as the department-store chain works to recover from its worst
annual sales in more than two decades.  The plan would be triggered if a person or group acquires
10 percent or more of the company’s shares or commences a tender
or exchange offer that would result in someone owning more than
that portion of the shares, the Plano, Texas-based retailer said
today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Ullman is trying to undo the
damage from his predecessor’s failed turnaround plan, which led
to plunging sales and a dwindling cash pile. The company last
week ended a struggle with activist investor  Bill Ackman  over
his call to remove Chairman Tom Engibous and replace Ullman more
quickly. Ackman and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  had been pressing for
changes at J.C. Penney since acquiring stakes in 2010.  “The obvious reason is to avert any future situations as
arose with Ackman and Vornado,” Bernard Sosnick, an analyst
with Gilford Securities in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It was a horrible situation and it puts an end to
that.” Sosnick recommends buying the shares.  J.C. Penney fell 1 percent to $13.20 at the close in New
York. The shares have slid 33 percent this year, compared with a
16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  No Response  J.C. Penney said the rights plan wasn’t instituted in
response to any effort to take control of the company. Its
“acquiring person” provisions won’t be triggered by Vornado or
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP as long as their
ownership is permitted under certain agreements with the
company, the retailer said. The company declined to say what
related agreements are already in place with Ackman and Vornado.  Vornado is J.C. Penney’s sixth-largest shareholder with a
6.1 percent stake. The firm, a real estate investment trust run
by investor  Steven Roth , has been reducing its J.C. Penney stake
this year.  The retailer’s second-largest shareholder is Soros Fund
Management LLC, which held a 9.1 percent stake as of June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm is followed by
 State Street (STT) , which has an 8.1 percent holding, and Perry Corp.,
which owns 7.3 percent, according to the data. Ackman holds an
18 percent stake.  Rick Snyder , senior retail analyst for Maxim Group LLC in
New York, said the directors’ primary goal likely was to
discourage other activist investors while management works on
its turnaround.  Private Equity  “Anyone taking a large stake would have to negotiate with
the board, as opposed to being able to acquire shares in the
open market,” Snyder, who recommends buying the shares, said
today in a telephone interview. “It’s very difficult to see any
strategic buyers at this point, but there could be some interest
from  private equity .”  Potential buyers may find J.C. Penney particularly
attractive at its current share price, given that the most
recent declines came more from sentiment than fundamentals, Will Frohnhoefer, a special situations analyst for BTIG LLC in New
York, said today in a telephone interview. Ackman’s recent
agreement with the retailer for the “orderly” sale of his
shares may also mean large blocks will soon become available.  “There is a fear that somebody is just going to come in
while things are kind of confused and in the mix pick the
company off,” he said. “But from management’s perspective, the
real focus is just to cool down all the activism to just focus
on operations.”  He rates the shares buy.  Bass Investment  J. Kyle Bass’s Hayman Capital Management LP hedge fund in
the past two weeks has bought some of the company’s secured
loans and sold credit-default swap insurance to other investors
holding the company’s debt, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  J.C. Penney posted a $985 million loss in the year ended
Feb. 2 as former CEO  Ron Johnson ’s plan to reduce discounts and
convert the stores into collections of boutiques alienated
customers. Sales plunged 25 percent to the lowest since at least
1987.  Ullman, who had led J.C. Penney for about seven years
before being replaced by Johnson, returned as CEO in April and
immediately set to work raising funds. The company’s cash pile
had shrunk to $930 million as of Feb. 2 from $1.51 billion a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  