-- Jackson Hole Without Bernanke Focuses on Global Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-23T03:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/jackson-hole-without-bernanke-to-focus-on-global-monetary-policy.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s annual
monetary conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, will probably
focus on global central banks as  Ben S. Bernanke  becomes the
first Fed chairman to pass up the meeting since 1988.  “In recent years we’ve all been looking for clues and
signals from the Fed, and that won’t happen this time,” said
 Eric Green , global head of research for TD Securities in New
York and a former New York Fed economist. “It will be a very
international view of monetary policies,” with a focus on how
“global reflation is persisting at a slower rate.”  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and Bank of Mexico
Governor Agustin Carstens are among the speakers at the three-day symposium held by the Kansas City Fed that started today,
entitled “Global Dimensions of Unconventional Monetary
Policy.” With Bernanke staying away, there will be no keynote
address.  As the Fed debates the timing of tapering record stimulus,
other central banks are pumping up accommodation. Kuroda aims to
shake off deflation by doubling Japan’s monetary base by the end
of 2014. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has
pledged to hold euro-area monetary policy “accommodative for as
long as necessary,” and Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
has said he doesn’t expect to raise rates until at least 2016.  Neither Carney nor Draghi is on the list of conference
attendees. Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  and
Frank Smets, research director from the ECB, are scheduled to
give remarks.  Full Day  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and former Bank of Israel
Governor Stanley Fischer will moderate discussions.  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International Monetary Fund ,
will give a lunch-time address on the first full day of the
meeting tomorrow.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George said today in brief
opening remarks that the global focus of the conference was
“certainly timely.” She didn’t discuss the outlook for
monetary policy or the economy.  The Fed said in April that Bernanke, who has given the
introductory speech every year since becoming Fed chairman in
2006, won’t attend the conference because of a personal
scheduling conflict. Bernanke’s term expires in January, and
President Barack Obama is considering candidates to succeed him,
including Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and former Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers .  Center Stage  While Bernanke won’t attend, his unprecedented easing
policies are at center stage as Fed officials debate when to
start reducing $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  Emerging-market stocks dropped today to a six-week low
after minutes yesterday from the Fed’s July 30-31 meeting showed
broad support for Bernanke’s plan to begin reducing bond
purchases this year and halt them around mid-2014 if the  U.S.
economy  performs in line with Fed forecasts. Speculation
Bernanke will dial down quantitative easing has helped erase
about $1 trillion from the value of developing-nation equities
this year.  The Brazilian real dropped to a four-year low yesterday.
Brazil’s central bank sold $1.8 billion of currency swaps to
stem the real’s biggest decline in 20 months, and central bank
President Alexandre Tombini canceled plans to attend the Jackson
Hole conference to monitor markets.  U.S. stocks gained today on data showing improvement in
manufacturing and the labor market. The dollar rose as signs of
an improving global economy increased speculation the Fed will
dial down stimulus.  Stocks Rose  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent today to
1,656.96 in New York trading, while the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note was little changed at 2.88 percent after hitting a
two-year high this week. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
increased 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent advance yesterday.  Bernanke, like his predecessors  Alan Greenspan  and  Paul Volcker , has used the conference in the Grand Tetons to set his
policy agenda. In 2010 and 2012, he signaled new rounds of bond
buying aimed at fueling growth and combating unemployment. The
purchases have helped balloon Fed assets to a record $3.65
trillion.  Policy makers from Latin America and Asia criticized the
second round of purchases, which totaled $600 billion, as a
threat to local economies, a spur to inflation and the start of
a competitive devaluation of the dollar.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , at a 2010 event
in Sao Paolo, coined the term “currency war” to characterize
the harm to emerging market economies.  Even without Bernanke, the Kansas City Fed’s gathering will
probably retain its role as a forum for monetary officials to
incubate policy ideas and debate next steps, Green said.  ‘Different Stages’  “ Jackson Hole  really tries to hit the themes du jour, and
the issue right now is different central banks are at different
stages of their cycle,” he said.  The conference will continue to provide academics an
opportunity to showcase their latest research.  Columbia
University ’s Michael Woodford urged central bankers last August
to set economic thresholds such as nominal gross domestic
product that would prompt an increase in  interest rates .  After Woodford’s call for “forward guidance,” the FOMC in
December 2012 pledged to keep interest rates near zero at least
as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent and inflation
doesn’t rise above 2.5 percent.  “I am sure that my paper last year got much more attention
as a result of having been presented at Jackson Hole,” Woodford
said. The Fed adopted a policy based on “consideration of
arguments made in my Jackson Hole paper,” and other central
banks probably followed in turn, he said.  The meeting “brings in top-notch research often right on
subject for the FOMC,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
said last week after a speech in Paducah, Kentucky. “It will be
as usual a really good exchange of ideas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  