-- JPMorgan Said to Face ‘Whale’ Fines as Soon as Next Month
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-08-22T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/jpmorgan-said-to-face-whale-fines-as-soon-as-next-month.html
U.K. and U.S. regulators are
preparing to impose fines as soon as mid-September on  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  after an investigation into the bank’s London
trading losses last year, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission are in negotiations with the
New York-based company to settle their probes, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t
public. In the U.S., the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the  Justice Department  are also investigating events
surrounding the losses.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, lost more than
$6.2 billion last year on derivatives bets made by Bruno Iksil,
a trader who was dubbed the London Whale because of the size of
his positions. The U.S. last week charged Javier Martin-Artajo
and Julien Grout, two of Iksil’s former colleagues, with  wire
fraud  and conspiracy charges for allegedly seeking to hide
losses. Iksil is cooperating with the U.S. in the case.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan, the SEC and the FCA declined to
comment.  The SEC, which also sued Martin-Artajo and Grout last week,
wrote in its  complaint  that JPMorgan “failed to furnish to the
commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations
prescribed by the commission, such financial reports as the
commission has prescribed.” JPMorgan, which restated last
year’s first-quarter earnings because of the losses, is
expecting multiple fines from regulators investigating the
losses, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which
censured JPMorgan without a fine earlier this year, may also
take additional action against the bank or the traders,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Bryan Hubbard , a
spokesman for the OCC, declined to comment.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which is in charge of most U.K.
white-collar crime enforcement, is “liaising with our U.S.
counterparts” and the FCA, Jina Roe, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail this week.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Grout, 13-MAG-01976, and
U.S. v. Martin-Artajo, 13-MAG-01975, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Martin-Artajo, 13-cv-05677, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  