-- Arizona, Kansas Sue U.S. Over Voters Proof of Citizenship
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/kansas-arizona-sue-u-s-over-voters-proof-of-citizenship.html
Arizona  and  Kansas  sued the U.S.
Election Assistance Commission, seeking a court order forcing it
to amend voter registration forms for those states so that
people signing up are required to prove they’re citizens.  The states’ complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in
Topeka, Kansas, comes two months after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
threw out Arizona’s law requiring such proof from would-be
registrants.  Writing for the majority, Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  said then that the state could petition the election
commission to amend its form to add the requirement, which he
said otherwise runs afoul of federal law.  “As sovereign states, plaintiffs have the constitutional
right, power and privilege to establish voting qualifications,
including voter registration requirements,” Kansas and Arizona
said in their complaint.  Current law requires only that those registering to vote
using the standardized federal form swear an oath that they’re
American citizens, according to the complaint. The Supreme
Court’s ruling doesn’t prevent Arizona from requiring the proof
from voters using a state registration form.  Justice Spokesman  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
declined to comment on the states’ suit.  Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach and Arizona Attorney
General Tom Horne are named as plaintiffs in the complaint. Both
are Republicans.  Non-citizens have allegedly registered and voted in each
state, according to the complaint.  Kansas, which already required voters to be U.S. citizens,
amended its laws in 2011 to make voters provide “satisfactory
evidence” of that status, the state said. Arizona voters
codified the proof-of-citizenship requirement in a 2004
referendum.  Each state, having previously been rebuffed in bids to have
the Election Assistance Commission revise its registration
forms, renewed their requests after the Supreme Court ruling,
only to be told the agency lacked the necessary quorum to decide
the request, according to the complaint.  That response violated the U.S. Constitution’s 10th
Amendment, which says those powers not granted to the federal
government, nor prohibited to the states, are reserved to the
states or the people, the states said.  The agency hasn’t had a quorum since December 2010, has had
no commissioners since December 2011, no  executive director 
since then and no general counsel since May 2012, according to
the complaint.  The case is Kobach v. The United States Election Assistance
Commission, 13-cv-04095, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Topeka).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  