-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for August (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-08-22T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-august-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity improved further in
August, and producers’ expectations also edged higher after
easing last month. Price indexes rose modestly, with a continued
increase in future finished goods prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 8 in August, up from 6
in July and -5 in June (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The composite
index is an average of the production, new orders, employment,
supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Production increased at both durable and non-durable goods-producing plants, particularly in plastic and metal products.
Most other month-over-month indexes also improved. The
production index remained solid at 21, and the new orders and
order backlog indexes also rose moderately. The new orders for
exports index edged higher from 2 to 4, and the employment index
moved into positive territory for the first time in six months.
The raw materials inventory index fell from 4 to 0, while the
finished goods inventory index increased after falling last
month.  Year-over-year factory indexes rebounded in August. The
composite year-over-year index jumped from 2 to 11, and the
production, shipments, and new orders indexes also increased.
The employment index posted its highest level in seven months,
and the capital expenditures index rose from 11 to 15. The new
orders for exports index moved into positive territory for the
first time this year, and both inventory indexes also edged up.  Most future factory indexes improved somewhat over the previous
month. The future composite index inched higher from 7 to 9, and
the future shipments, order backlog, and employment indexes also
rose. The future new orders for exports index increased from -1
to 9, while the future production and capital expenditures
indexes were basically unchanged. In contrast, the future new
orders index fell for the second straight month. The raw
materials inventory index jumped from -13 to 0, and the finished
goods inventory index also posted positive gains.  Most price indexes increased modestly. The month-over-month
finished goods price index rose from 0 to 5, and the raw
materials price index also moved higher. The year-over-year raw
materials price index edged up slightly, while the finished
goods price index was basically unchanged. The future raw
materials price index increased from 36 to 45, and the future
finished goods price index rose for the second straight month,
indicating more firms plan to pass recent cost increases through
to customers.  SELECTED COMMENTS  “We continue to see soft demand and uncertain outlook. Companies
just do not want to commit to anything long-term.”  “Good employees are still hard to find.”  “More projects are being delayed by government-related
entities.”  “We continue to be concerned about the cost impact of the
changes in health insurance.”  “Our defense business is down significantly.”  “People are continuing to hold capital investments tighter to
the vest. Companies have not shut down investments, but orders
have been reduced significantly.”  “Sequestration is hitting us very hard. The heavy infrastructure
market is way down due to lack of federal spending.”  “Although some District firms noted weakness in August
associated with federal spending cuts and difficulties finding
workers, we were encouraged to see another solid gain in our
composite index and most of its components,” said Wilkerson.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City 