-- Kazakhmys Posts First-Half Loss on Copper Price, Scraps Dividend
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-22T07:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/kazakhmys-posts-first-half-loss-on-copper-price-scraps-dividend.html
Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper producer, posted a first-half loss and scrapped its
interim dividend after prices for the metal fell.  Kazakhmys reported a  net loss  of $962 million compared with
net income of $121 million a year earlier, the London-based
company said today in a statement.  Copper producers around the world have seen profits eroded
by declining metal prices and rising costs. Poland’s KGHM Polska
Miedz SA this month reported a 56 percent slump in quarterly
profit, while Australia’s OZ Minerals posted a first-half loss
and  Germany ’s  Aurubis AG (NDA)  cut its full-year earnings forecast.  Kazakhmys said its average copper selling price fell 9
percent in the first half to $7,508 a metric ton, while gross
unit cash costs increased 5 percent.  “Given the low level of free  cash flow  currently generated
by the core business, the capital expenditure on the major
growth projects and the uncertain economic outlook, the board
believes it would be inappropriate to pay an interim dividend,”
the company said. It announced a 3-cent payout a year ago.  Kazakhmys said it’s set to receive $875 million in cash and
about 77 million of its own shares from the sale of its Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. stake. Shareholders approved the sale
earlier this month, paving the way for ENRC’s founders to take
the mining company private.  Kazakhmys, which produced 144,000 tons of copper cathode in
the first half, is reviewing its mines to boost cash generation
and profitability. Sales in the first half rose 3.6 percent to
$1.57 billion. Its  shares  climbed 1.9 percent to 307.2 pence as
of 8:04 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  