-- Koch Industries Backs Away From Bidding for Tribune’s Newspapers
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/koch-industries-backs-away-from-bidding-for-tribune-newspapers.html
Koch Industries Inc., which drew
protests earlier this year over speculation that it might buy
the Los Angeles Times or other  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  publications, said
it’s no longer interested in bidding for the newspapers.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for the Wichita, Kansas-based company, confirmed  a report  yesterday from the Daily
Caller website saying that Koch Industries wouldn’t be buying
any of Tribune’s daily newspapers after conducting a review.  “Koch continues to have an interest in the media business
and we’re exploring a broad range of opportunities where we
think we can add value,” she said in an e-mail. “In terms of
the Tribune, the Daily Caller story is accurate.”  In May, union groups rallied outside the Los Angeles
offices of Tribune investor  Oaktree Capital (OAK) , trying to ward off
a sale to the company, a closely held business controlled by the
billionaire Republican donors Charles and  David Koch . At the
time, Tribune Chief Executive Officer Peter Liguori said
speculation over potential buyers was “premature.”  Two months later, Tribune Co. announced plans to spin off
its newspapers into a separate business. The move let the
company focus on its TV operations and signaled that it wouldn’t
seek an immediate bidder for the papers.  Bankruptcy Exit  Tribune, which emerged from bankruptcy at the end of 2012,
had hired advisers to evaluate interest from newspaper buyers,
according to people familiar with the process. The company’s
publishing group was valued at about $623 million in its
bankruptcy filings last year, $300 million lower than a January
2011 estimate.  The spinoff doesn’t preclude Tribune from selling some or
all of its newspapers in the future, a person with knowledge of
the company’s thinking  said in July . Even so,  Koch Industries 
has lost interest in buying the papers after conducting due
diligence, the Daily Caller reported. The company determined
that acquiring the publications wasn’t economically viable, the
website said.  Labor groups, including the  AFL-CIO , had raised concerns
about a Koch purchase, citing the Koch brothers’ support for
initiatives such as  California ’s Proposition 32, a failed ballot
measure that would have prohibited unions from using payroll
deductions for political purposes without permission.  The Kochs had been named among several potential Tribune
buyers -- a group that included  News Corp ., Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., Wrapports LLC and Freedom Communications Inc., people
familiar with the negotiations said in March.  Berkshire CEO  Warren Buffett , who has spent more than $340
million acquiring community newspapers, told Tribune’s
Allentown Morning Call that he  might be interested  in buying
that publication.  Rupert Murdoch , the billionaire chairman of News Corp., has
expressed interest in the Los Angeles Times, people familiar
with the matter have said. The publication would let him add
coverage of the entertainment business to a stable of papers
that includes the Wall Street Journal, the  New York  Post and the
U.K.’s Sun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  