-- New Zealand Seeks to Restore China Relations After Dairy Recalls
-- B y   W i l l i a m   B i   a n d   L i z a   L i n
-- 2013-08-22T08:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/new-zealand-seeks-to-restore-china-relations-after-dairy-recalls.html
New Zealand, whose exports are under
threat after  China  halted imports of some tainted dairy
products, pledged to take steps to ensure product safety and
regain the confidence of its biggest trading partner.  New Zealand’s government will in 10 days notify Chinese
authorities of measures it may take to address safety issues in
order to restore trade, Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully
said at a media briefing in Beijing today. The Pacific country
will also require its exporters to meet China standards for its
dairy products, he said.  McCully’s visit comes as New Zealand deals with the fallout
from two contamination scares linked to dairy products in China,
its top trading partner. Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s biggest dairy exporter and New Zealand’s largest
company, said earlier this month botulism-causing bacteria were
found in whey protein that made its way into the Chinese market.
China also temporarily banned some New Zealand milk protein this
week after finding elevated nitrate levels in certain products.  The New Zealand government will notify Chinese authorities
on “what has happened here, what issues need to be addressed
and to provide certainty to consumers that quality food from New
Zealand can be relied upon,” said McCully, who is on a two-day
visit to Beijing as part of a tour of Mongolia, China and Hong
Kong.  New Zealand is conducting inquiries into the Fonterra
incident, the results of which will be released to the Chinese
government in 10 days, the official said. The case didn’t have a
significant impact on relations between the two countries, he
said.  Dairy is New Zealand’s largest foreign exchange earner,
accounting for 28 percent of overseas sales in an economy where
exports make up about a third of output. China, which overtook
 Australia  as the nation’s largest trade partner this year,
bought NZ$7.7 billion ($6.1 billion) of New Zealand’s goods in
the year through June, NZ$3 billion of which was dairy.  “We have a total and absolute commitment to meeting the
standards which would be required for that trade to continue to
grow,” McCully said.  McCully, who was meeting his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi
and State Councilor Yang Jiechi in Beijing, will be followed in
a “few weeks or months” by trade minister Tim Groser and Prime
Minister John Key, Key’s spokeswoman Kelly Boxall said on Aug.
11.  Dirty Pipe  New Zealand’s troubles began Aug. 3, when Fonterra said a
dirty pipe at a processing plant may have tainted whey protein
used in dairy formula with bacteria that can cause botulism, a
rare illness that may lead to paralysis. China then stopped
imports of whey protein and a dairy base powder from Fonterra.  The announcement also prompted companies ranging from
infant-formula producers  Danone SA (BN)  and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to
beverage maker Coca-Cola Co., which used Fonterra’s contaminated
ingredients or its production lines, to issue precautionary
recalls on the Chinese mainland and in Hong Kong. Gary Romano,
managing director of New Zealand Milk Products, also stepped
down.  In an Aug. 6 commentary titled “Remembering the Fonterra
lesson,” the official People’s Daily wrote that China needs
more supervision of milk imports and should strictly check all
such imports regardless of the brand.  The official news agency Xinhua wrote that buyers were
losing faith in New Zealand’s clean image. Theo Spierings, Chief
Executive Officer at the Auckland-based company, apologized to
consumers in Beijing on Aug 5.  Fonterra was also among six dairy companies fined for
violating anti-monopoly laws in China this month.  Milk Protein  This week, China imposed a temporary ban on a milk protein
made by New Zealand’s Westland Milk Products after finding
elevated nitrate levels in some of the product, the General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
said in a statement on its  website .  Two batches of lactoferrin milk protein made by Westland
and exported to China contained levels of nitrate that exceeded
the New Zealand standard, the Wellington-based  Ministry for
Primary Industries  said on Aug 19. It revoked export
certificates for four consignments that were derived from the
two batches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  