-- New World Resources Fights Record Loss With OKK Sale, Cost Cuts
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-08-22T09:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/new-world-resources-fights-record-loss-with-okk-sale-cost-cuts.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR)  expects to
sell its OKK coking plant this year to help counter a slump in
coal prices that triggered a record loss at the Czech mining
company, Chief Financial Officer Marek Jelinek said.  “We are currently negotiating a share-purchase agreement
with several potential buyers” of OKK, Jelinek said today in a
phone interview. “We have a good chance of closing the sale and
receiving the cash before the end of this year.”  NWR shares and bonds rallied on speculation the divestment
will help shore up the Amsterdam-registered company’s finances
after it began posting losses last year because of falling
demand for coal from steelmakers and energy utilities. NWR will
further cut jobs, curb mining costs and investment and focus
more on producing the more profitable coking coal rather than
thermal coal, it said.  NWR shares jumped as much as 13 percent, trading up 8.3
percent to 24.05 koruna by 10:55 a.m. in  Prague  with traded
volume at 168 percent of the three-month daily average. Yields
on its unsecured euro-denominated notes due in January 2021
tumbled 220 basis points, or 2.20 percentage point, to a two-month low of 26.95 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The net loss for the April-June period widened to a record
315.4 million euros ($421 million) from 80.3 million euros in
the first quarter as the company took a 307 million-euro non-cash impairment charge on its assets, according to the
statement. That compares with the average estimate for a 65.3
million-euro loss in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  “When adjusted for the impairment, the results are better
than expected,” Bohumil Trampota, an analyst at J&T Banka AS in
Prague, wrote in e-mailed comments. “Negotiations on the OKK
sale and its expected completion by the end of 2013 could
support the company’s liquidity, along with the cost savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  