-- Nigeria Risks $185 Billion Loss From New Law, Oil Companies Say
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-08-22T17:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/nigeria-risks-185-billion-loss-from-new-law-oil-companies-say.html
Nigeria risks losing $185 billion
within 10 years as higher taxes proposed by a new law will deter
investment in the country’s oil industry, an association of
energy companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said.  Nigerian oil production may slump by 25 percent from 2.4
million barrels a day if the Petroleum Industry Bill, or PIB, is
implemented, Mark Ward, managing director of Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
Nigerian unit, said in Lagos today. The loss of investment
caused by the law would leave it insufficient to tackle decline
rates at oilfields, said Ward, representing the Oil Producers
Trade Section at a conference in the commercial capital.  “The terms proposed increase royalties, increase taxes and
lower allowances or incentives all at the same time,” said
Ward. Energy companies are “deeply concerned” as the new tax
proposals will “create one of the world’s harshest fiscal
regimes.”  The new law is aimed at reforming the way  Nigeria ’s oil and
gas industry is regulated and funded, and seeks to increase the
government’s share of profit from oil pumped to at least 73
percent, from 61 percent currently, according to Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke.  Uneconomical Exploration  The Oil Producers Trade Section, or OPTS, includes  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon Mobil,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni
SpA. (ENI)  The companies pump about 90 percent of Nigeria’s oil
through ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. Proposed increased taxes in the legislation would make
exploration “uneconomical,” they said in a joint presentation
to lawmakers last month.  The PIB may boost the government’s share of oil profits to
as much as 96 percent, Ward said. For gas projects, the PIB will
increase the  tax rate  to 80 percent from 30 percent,
“significantly reducing incentives for investments.”  Under the bill, rentals and penalties would be set by the
petroleum minister, while the country’s president would be able
to award licenses without competitive bidding. Companies remain
concerned that there’s no guarantee of the sanctity of existing
contracts, or of independent arbitration when disputes arise,
Ward said.  Africa’s most populous nation, with more than 160 million
people, relies on oil for as much as 95 percent of export
earnings and 80 percent of government revenue. The West African
nation produced 1.92 million barrels a day of oil in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net 
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  