-- Nokia Cut Further Into Junk by Moody’s on Cash-Flow Concern
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-23T07:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/nokia-debt-cut-one-level-by-moody-s-on-weak-mobile-phone-demand.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt was cut further
into junk by Moody’s Investors Service, the latest downgrade for
the company after it bought out its partner in the Nokia Siemens
Networks venture for 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion).  The corporate family rating was lowered one level to B1, or
four levels below investment grade, with a negative outlook,
Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced
the Espoo, Finland-based company’s rating last month.  Nokia is coping with cash-flow challenges stemming from
weaker demand for its phones, Moody’s said in the statement.
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop has cut more than 20,000
jobs and suspended the company’s dividend for the first time in
143 years in January in an attempt to improve its finances.
Nokia reported in July a 27 percent drop in the number of
handsets sold in the second quarter. It’s lost more than 5
billion euros in nine quarters.  “We believe that the company continues to face challenges
returning to sustainable profitability in its core smartphone
and mobile-phone operations,” said Roberto Pozzi, Moody’s
analyst for Nokia. “It is unlikely to reach break-even on a
cash flow basis before well into 2014, at the earliest.”  Nokia reported second-quarter  revenue  fell 24 percent as
sales of its Lumia smartphone failed to make up for weakening
demand for its older and more basic handsets.  Net Cash  The purchase of the Nokia Siemens network-equipment
business last month for a “fairly low price” might give the
company exposure to a more stable industry and ultimately
improve liquidity, Moody’s said. Nokia agreed to buy partner
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s 50 percent share in Nokia Siemens to gain full
access to venture’s cashflow.  The cost of insuring Nokia’s debt using five-year credit-default swap contracts has fallen about 17 percent this year,
signaling an improvement in creditworthiness. Nokia reported net
cash of 4.1 billion euros at the end of June. The company has
total debt of about 5.1 billion euros, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased that the strong cash position we have
maintained throughout our transition has enabled us to take
advantage of an opportunity to acquire full ownership of NSN,
whose financial performance has strengthened markedly in recent
quarters,” Nokia Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said
in a statement on the company’s website. He also said Nokia has
access to more than 2 billion euros in cash through untapped
credit facilities.  Nokia slipped 0.4 percent to 3.05 euros at 10:30 a.m. in
Helsinki trading. The shares have gained 4.2 percent this year,
valuing the company at 11.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  