-- North Korea Agrees to Site of Reunion Talks After 4-Day Impasse
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-22T05:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/north-korea-agrees-to-site-of-reunion-talks-after-4-day-impasse.html
North Korea agreed on the site of
talks on renewing reunions of families separated by the  Korean
War , ending a four-day impasse with the South that threatened to
slow a thaw in relations between the two countries.  Red Cross officials will meet tomorrow at Panmunjom, which
straddles the two countries, the South’s Unification Ministry
said today. Differences over where to hold the negotiations held
up the start of the talks, originally set to begin this week.  The prospect of renewing family reunions is the latest sign
that relations are easing between the two countries after months
of heightened tensions fueled by North Korea’s nuclear test and
missile launches and the U.S. and South Korean joint military
drills. Earlier this month the governments reached agreement on
a plan to reopen the jointly operated Gaeseong industrial park,
paving the way for the talks on family reunions.  “ North Korea  is trying to accelerate the improvement of
its ties with  South Korea  so it can get what it can from the
South and, eventually, the outside world,” said Hwang Ji Hwan,
a political science professor at the University of Seoul. “The
question now is how much trust can these two countries build
through these meetings?”  North Korea also wants to hold talks in the coming weeks on
resuming South Korean tours to its eastern mountain resort, the
ministry said in a text message. The visits, a source of hard
currency for the North, stopped in 2008 when a North Korean
guard shot and killed a South Korean tourist.  Start of Reconciliation  Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae told reporters yesterday
that the level of mistrust is still high between the sides and
that the deal on reopening the Gaeseong Industrial Complex is
only the start of reconciliation.  North Korea pulled its 53,000 workers out of Gaeseong in
April as the  United Nations  stepped up sanctions to contain the
country’s nuclear program and the U.S. and South Korea held
annual military drills.  A group of more than 250 South Koreans crossed the border
into Gaeseong today, including officials from companies
operating at the site in their first visit to the factories at
the complex in months, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  