-- Norway’s Krone Hits Nine-Year Low Against Krona: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-22T09:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/norway-s-krone-hits-nine-year-low-against-krona-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone slumped to its lowest
level against  Sweden ’s currency in almost nine years as interest
rate prospects in the two largest Nordic economies diverge.  The krone slumped as much as 0.9 percent to 1.0712 Swedish
krona, the weakest since March 12, 2004, and was down 0.8
percent at 1.0721 as of 11:40 a.m. in Oslo. The move extends the
krone’s decline to eight consecutive days.  Swedish unemployment declined more than estimated to 7.2
percent in July, from 9.1 percent a month earlier, a report
today showed, boosting the potential for a faster rate increase
in the largest Nordic economy. At the same time, traders are
reconsidering the potential for higher rates in Norway, after
data this week showed the economy grew 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, less than a third the estimated pace.  “It all started off with the rather weak GDP numbers in
 Norway ,” said Carl Hammer, currency strategist at SEB AB in
 Stockholm . “The GDP number itself, while disappointing, the
details in the GDP number were driven by temporary factors in
inventory adjustments rather than in more important factors for
growth.”  DNB ASA, Norway’s largest bank, yesterday predicted that
slowing growth in western Europe’s largest oil exporter will
probably lead the central bank to keep rates unchanged until the
first quarter of 2015. The central bank kept its benchmark
interest rate at 1.5 percent in June and signaled an increased
chance for a rate cut next month to support growth and prevent
inflation from slowing further.  Policy makers have kept borrowing costs unchanged since
March 2011 to limit gains in the krone, which emerged as a haven
from the euro crisis.  Hammer said he expects the krone will recover as the move
is “a bit exaggerated.”  “In a long term perspective the Norwegian krone is
approaching more attractive levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  