-- NYC Council Rejects Mayor’s Vetoes of Bills to Check Cops
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-23T04:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/nyc-council-overrides-bloomberg-s-veto-of-police-inspector-bill.html
New York’s City Council created an
inspector general to review police practices, overriding Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s veto and putting another check on the stop-and-frisk policy he championed as a crime-fighting tool.  The predominantly Democratic council voted 39 to 10
yesterday to pass the inspector-general measure and 34 to 15 to
nullify a second veto of a bill allowing lawsuits when an
officer uses racial profiling as a reason for questioning
someone. Votes by at least 34 of the council’s 51 members are
required to override a mayoral veto.  The inspector-general decision followed a federal court
ruling this month that police violated the U.S. Constitution in
stop-and-frisk encounters with hundreds of thousands of mostly
black and Hispanic young men. To restrain the practice, U.S.
District Judge Shira Sheindlin appointed a monitor she said
would ensure that police act lawfully.  “It is a smart policing idea that will keep us the safest
big city in America but do it in a way that reunites police and
community, and do it in a way so that people who have a concern
about policies and practices will have a place to go to have
their voices heard,” Council Speaker Christine Quinn said at a
news briefing before the vote.  Bloomberg, 71, has said the council’s actions and the
court-appointed monitor would hinder patrol officers’ ability to
make split-second decisions on the street, making it more
difficult to fight crime and terrorism.  ‘Negative’ Effects  “The communities that will feel the most negative impacts
of these bills will be minority communities” which have
benefited most from reduced crime, the mayor said in a statement
following the votes.  Of 4.3 million stop-and-frisk searches in the past nine
years, more than 80 percent were of blacks and Latinos,
according to the New York-based Center for Constitutional
Rights, the plaintiff in the federal suit. Fewer than 1 percent
of the stops led to recovery of a gun, the center said.  The mayor says stop-and-frisk helped reduce crime 34
percent since he became mayor in 2002. The city had 25 percent
fewer homicides this year through mid-June compared with the
same period in 2012, when it had 417, police data show.  The numbers show that  New York  is the safest big U.S. city,
according to Bloomberg, who said the overrides were aimed at
winning votes, not stopping racial profiling which was outlawed
in the city in 2004.  ‘Political Pandering’  “Today’s vote is an example of election-year politics at
its very worst and political pandering at its most deadly,” the
mayor said. “We will ask the courts to step in before innocent
people are harmed.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. A political independent, he is barred by
law from seeking a fourth term. Quinn, 47, a Manhattan Democrat,
is one of seven in her party seeking to replace him next year.  The inspector general’s power will be limited to making
policy recommendations to the mayor and police commissioner,
while the federal monitor will oversee only the stop, question
and frisk tactics, Quinn said. It will cost $2 million a year to
implement the bill, according to a council staff report.  Quinn voted against the racial-profiling bill, she said,
because such police activity is already against federal law.  Of the other major Democratic mayoral candidates, support
for both measures came from Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, a
Brooklyn Democrat, and Comptroller  John Liu  of Queens. Those
opposing both include former Comptroller  William Thompson  and
former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  