-- Republicans in Echo Before Big Burn Defy Affordable Care
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2013-08-22T20:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/obama-no-lbj-on-health-care-feud-dubbed-kamikaze-politics.html
Joseph Califano remembers the moment
well.  The nation’s doctors were threatening to boycott the new
Medicare program, and President  Lyndon Johnson  had to get them
on board or the 1965 extension of health care to elderly
Americans would collapse. So the president set a trap.  Before a discussion of Medicare could begin in a White
House meeting with American Medical Association leaders, Johnson
pitched the idea of doctors doing rotations in Vietnam to ease a
physician shortage during the war.  The doctors accepted the patriotic appeal, and Johnson
promptly called reporters into the room to announce it, putting
James Appel, the AMA president, on the spot.  “The first question was, ‘Will the AMA support doctors in
Medicare?’, and Johnson turns to this poor guy sitting next to
him and said, ‘These men are willing to put their lives on the
line in Vietnam; Medicare is the law of the land. Of course,
they will’,” Califano, 82, said in an interview. “Then he
turns to the doctor and says ‘tell them’,” and Appel did.  It was a power play that President  Barack Obama  can’t
replicate in a far more partisan political climate in
 Washington , Califano said. Johnson’s opponents -- mainly doctors
and hospitals -- were driven by financial motives, while Obama’s
are galvanized by “ideological” ones, he said.  Inevitable Glitches  Historically, Congress has been willing to do both
technical fixes and major amendments to  Social Security  and
Medicare, particularly once they were being implemented.
Glitches and oversights are inevitable when passing laws that
require the construction of new bureaucracies to carry out
massive programs.  In 2006, President  George W. Bush ’s rollout of a
prescription drug subsidy for seniors drew complaints about its
complexity and rising costs, and adjustments were made to make
the program more accessible and to close loopholes.  Yet it’s a pattern that’s unlikely to be repeated with the
Affordable Care Act, Obama’s signature legislative achievement
aimed at expanding health coverage to about 30 million uninsured
Americans. Republicans, mainly in the U.S. House, are continuing
a push to defund or repeal the law, which received no Republican
votes when it was passed, to starve it into submission.  That means the Obama administration must implement the law,
albeit with flaws, and count on enough Americans embracing it to
both provide more coverage and reduce costs.  Hamstrung President  “They’re making it impossible to do what a president would
normally do, which is go get some of these changes made in the
law,” said Califano, a Johnson adviser who went on to serve as
secretary of the  Department of Health , Education and Welfare in
the administration of President  Jimmy Carter . “It’s kamikaze
politics. I don’t understand it.”  Obama acknowledged that changes to the law are unlikely in
the short term. “That would be the normal thing that I would
prefer to do, but we’re not in a normal atmosphere around here
when it comes to quote-unquote ‘Obamacare’,” the president said
in an Aug. 9 news conference. “It’s just become an ideological
fixation.”  This month, the House Republican Conference gave its
members a planning kit entitled, “Fighting Washington for all
Americans,” offering tips on hosting an “Emergency Health Care
Town Hall” on the “negative effects of Obamacare and the House
Republican plan to dismantle it.”  Recess Advice  “The member should use personal stories from the town hall
during local media interviews to highlight the negative effects
of Obamacare on the community,” the kit advises. It also
counsels members to write op-ed pieces for local newspapers that
say, “I’m working to dismantle Obamacare.”  House Republicans  have voted 40 times to repeal, defund or
delay the law and have pledged to oppose even technical fixes.
Heritage Action for America began a nine-city tour on Aug. 19 in
Fayetteville,  Arkansas , to try to create a movement that would
pressure Congress to deny funding for the law.  Eighty House Republicans have signed a letter urging their
leadership to support efforts to withhold money to implement the
health-care law from must-pass legislation to keep the
government running after Oct. 1.  “We urge you to affirmatively defund the implementation
and enforcement of Obamacare in any relevant appropriations
bills brought to the House floor” in the current Congress,
“including any continuing appropriations bill,” said the
letter to House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia.  Roosevelt’s Firefight  Obama’s plight has echoes of the early 1900s when some of
the nation’s wealthiest men worked with compliant lawmakers to
try to defund an agency that Congress had just passed a law to
create -- the  U.S. Forest Service  -- under President  Theodore Roosevelt .  It would take a disastrous fire in 1910 that consumed
millions of acres of forests and entire towns, a story recounted
in the 2009 book “The Big Burn” by Timothy Egan, for the
public to embrace the need for conservation of federal lands.  Obamacare is the culmination of an effort that began with
Roosevelt’s administration a century ago to provide a form of
government health insurance for the poor. And in each phase,
presidents -- Republican and Democratic, alike -- had to
overcome spirited opposition.  Social Security  President Franklin Roosevelt won passage in 1935 of Social
Security, which provides government stipends to elderly
residents for living expenses; he specifically deferred a
health-care component because he didn’t believe it would pass.  Roosevelt faced opposition largely from the business
community. Silas Hardy Strawn, a former head of the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, called it an effort to “Sovietize America.”  Thirty years later, Johnson delivered Medicare and
Medicaid, making deals with the doctors and hospitals to provide
health care for seniors and the poor.  Bill Clinton  lost his 1993
battle for universal insurance even as he won a 1997 fight to
expand children’s health care.  When Bush got his Medicare prescription drug benefit for
the elderly, it was no easy triumph. The House speaker,
Republican Dennis Hastert of  Illinois , had to take the
extraordinary step of keeping the roll call vote on the bill
open for more than three hours while the leadership twisted arms
to get a majority vote, 220-215, at about 5 a.m.  Fixing Laws  Each time, Congress has had to go back and make amendments
to the laws, some minor, others sweeping.  In 1939, when Social Security was revised to include
survivor benefits, “it was done with a minimum of
controversy,” Wilbur Cohen, an adviser to presidents from
 Franklin Roosevelt  to Johnson, said in an oral history at the
 LBJ Presidential Library  in Austin,  Texas .  With Medicare, Califano said, there was no accurate
estimate of the costs, and if there had been, the program
probably wouldn’t have passed even with two-to-one Democratic
majorities in the House and Senate. The funding mechanism has
been changed repeatedly over the years.  In the Carter era, Califano said he was able to win
approval for numerous fixes for Medicare. “I didn’t have guys
saying, ‘You are the devil, Califano’,” he said.  Bush Adjustments  Lawrence Kocot, a senior adviser to the administrator of
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services from 2004-2007,
said a divided Congress passed technical and more substantive
 changes  to the prescription drug program for seniors.  “The partisan atmosphere in the ACA right now does not
lend itself to any technical correction bill,” said Kocot, now
a visiting fellow at the  Brookings Institution , a policy
research group in Washington. “There is too much
polarization.”  Johnson made a point of engaging Republicans on the issue,
something Obama has failed to do. Califano said Johnson made it
a priority to get at least half the Republicans in Congress to
vote for the Medicare plan.  “He said the law is not self-executing,” Califano said.
“If we don’t do this, they will kill us in appropriations,” a
presidential warning that foreshadowed the strategy some
Republicans want to adopt today.  Johnson’s Way  At the same time, Johnson didn’t always win. In 1968, the
embattled president delivered a message to Congress asking it to
fix three “major deficiencies” in Medicare, and none passed.  “We couldn’t get anything done,” Califano said. “We were
out of steam.”  There were also contrasts in presidential temperament.
“The climate is dramatically different between two different
presidents,” Califano said. “One who knew where every story
was buried on the Hill and loved to do all the tough things that
you’ve got to do, night after night meeting with people.”  He said Johnson instructed his aides to treat Senator
Everett Dirksen of Illinois, the Republican leader, the same as
Democratic Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield of  Montana , and
House Minority Leader  Gerald Ford , a Michigan Republican, just
like House Speaker John McCormack, a Massachusetts Democrat.  “That’s inconceivable today,” Califano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  