-- Obamacare Rate Shock Isn’t What You Think
-- B y   A d r i a n n a   M c I n t y r e   a n d   A u s t i n   F r a k t
-- 2013-08-22T13:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/obamacare-rate-shock-isn-t-what-you-think.html
The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act has been tarred by critics as an
illegitimate engine of intergenerational redistribution, forcing
the young to subsidize insurance costs for the old. The higher
premiums for young and healthy consumers’ exchange plans,
relative to what is available in today’s dysfunctional
individual market, are cited as proof, with the alarming tag
line “rate shock.”  Rate shock has raised concerns from the law’s  supporters 
and  opponents  alike. It has largely been pinned on a provision
that restricts insurers’ ability to discriminate based on age;
under that rule, premiums charged to a plan’s oldest
beneficiaries cannot exceed three times the premiums of younger
individuals.  The specter of saddling young Americans with higher costs
provides a convenient political target. It has sparked efforts
to discourage young adults from enrolling in the exchanges. The
latest is a campaign to “ burn your Obamacare draft card ,” with
conservative activist group FreedomWorks encouraging young
people to torch copies of Vietnam draft cards with the word
“Obamacare” superimposed on top.  “The whole scheme is enlisting young adults to overpay, so
other people can have subsidies,” said Dean Clancy, vice
president of public policy for FreedomWorks. The group’s goal is
to “make it socially acceptable to skip the exchange and pay
the fine.”  We find this campaign odd. If premiums are indeed
shockingly high, that ought to be discouragement enough to opt
out of coverage, with no help needed from FreedomWorks.  So why the sleight of hand? Maybe because FreedomWorks’
premise is wrong.  Recent evidence  suggests that the law won’t
actually raise premiums for young adults for the reason its
opponents claim. That’s because income-based tax credits will
disproportionately help young Americans afford coverage.  In fact,  more than 90 percent  of individuals ages 21 to 27
eligible for exchange plans are slated to receive these
subsidies. So the vast majority of these young adults will face
out-of-pocket costs that are equal to or less than per-capita
health-care spending for all 21- to 27-year-olds who are covered
through the exchanges -- the precise actuarial fairness that
Obamacare’s opponents  endorse . In other words, as a group, they
won’t be paying more than the value of the services they
receive.  If the law’s age-rating provisions aren’t to blame for rate
shock, what is? The truth is that premium increases for young
adults will be driven by guaranteed-issue and community-rating
protections -- in plain English, preventing insurers from
denying coverage or basing premiums on health history.  Thus, the health-care law’s “rate shock” isn’t a result
of the young subsidizing the old. It’s the result of reforming
the system so it serves the needs of the sickest and most
vulnerable -- something the current individual market fails to
do. Guaranteed issue and community rating, as well as minimum
benefits and caps on out-of-pocket spending, are not designed to
benefit the healthy at any age. They are designed to protect the
ill and injured at every age.  Owing to their popularity, railing against these provisions
would be politically challenging. Guaranteed issue is supported
by  two-thirds of Americans , including a majority of both
Democrats and Republicans. If you’re opposed to the health-care
law, it’s far easier to suggest the young should not subsidize
the old, even if that’s not the source of rate shock. That it is
based on a faulty assumption about what drives rate shock makes
that view all the more unfortunate.  Rate shock isn’t a myth, but the notion that Obamacare
transfers significant wealth from the young to the old is. Of
course, the more that young and healthy consumers believe it’s
real, the more likely they’ll be to opt out, pushing premiums
higher for everyone else. It’s a cynical way to perpetuate the
market dysfunction that Obamacare is intended to address.  (Adrianna McIntyre is a graduate student in public policy
at the University of Michigan. Austin Frakt is a health
economist with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Adrianna McIntyre at  almci@umich.edu ; Austin Frakt at
 frakt@bu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Christopher Flavelle at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net . 