-- Montrusco’s Chiadmi Top in Canadian Stocks With Valeant
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-22T21:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/montrusco-s-chiadmi-top-in-canadian-stocks-with-valeant.html
Ismael Chiadmi is the top fund
manager in Canada’s lagging equity market this year by picking
stocks such as  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  that
have rallied and are likely to entice other investors.  Chiadmi, manager at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc., has
returned 12 percent including dividends for the  Quantitative
Canadian Equity Fund (MONTBQCE)  this year using a price momentum strategy.
That puts him first among a group of 14 Canadian funds with at
least 90 percent of holdings in Canada and assets of C$100
million ($96 million) or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chiadmi has quadrupled the 3.1 percent  total return  of the
benchmark  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) , highlighting
how the right strategy can succeed even in underperforming
markets. The S&P/TSX is the worst-performing among Group of
Seven countries this year amid bear markets in commodities from
copper to silver.  “It’s based on investor behavior,” said Chiadmi, 55, who
has managed the fund for Montrusco Bolton since 2006. ’’People
tend to keep buying stocks that were bought during a certain
period. If a stock rallies they will keep buying it, which is
what my strategy is capturing.’’  The fund, created in 1996, holds about C$150 million ($143
million) in assets including  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  and
Methanex Corp. It has beaten 84 percent of peers over the last
year and 86 percent of comparable funds in the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Montrusco Bolton, based
in  Montreal , manages about C$5.6 billion ($5.4 billion).  ‘Relatively Simple’  The Quantitative Canadian Equity Fund invests in 10 of the
100 largest stocks in the benchmark S&P/TSX, using a model based
on momentum, which measures acceleration in trading price or
volume of a stock. The more investors drive a stock price higher
or lower, the greater the momentum, creating a snowball effect
that can be used to pick stocks.  “It’s a relatively simple, straightforward strategy that
works,” Chiadmi said by phone Aug. 19. “If the weakness in the
market is in slow trading, then the strategy will adapt and
become more diversified.”  Keith Richards, a fund manager with ValueTrend Wealth
Management in Barrie, Ontario, said the price momentum approach
is “technical analysis 101” and works well in a volatile,
choppy market such as  Canada ’s. His firm manages about C$110
million ($105 million).  “It’s a great strategy,” Richards said by phone
yesterday. “It’s like when you’re on the on ramp of a highway,
you’re going at 60 kilometers an hour and everybody else is
going at 120. What he’s trying to do is catch the car that’s
accelerating to 120.”  Mathematics, Computers  Chiadmi came to Canada in 1980 from  Morocco  and studied
econometrics, which uses mathematics to analyze economic data,
at Sherbrooke University in  Quebec . His schooling coincided with
the rise of personal computers, which revolutionized the
potential for data analysis in the industry, he said.  “I was very interested in quantitative methods, using
computers to analyze that data,” he said.  Chiadmi said the fund’s strategy is based on research
originated by  Narasimhan Jegadeesh , finance chair at Emory
University’s Goizueta Business School in Atlanta, and Sheridan Titman, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
Chiadmi’s model adjusts the time frame of the analysis and the
frequency of the price changes.  Shifting Positions  The fund is rebalanced once a quarter, with a turnover rate
of about 35 percent of companies each year. All 10 stocks are
equal-weighted at 9.5 percent at the beginning of the quarter.
The remainder is held in an  S&P/TSX 60 (SPTSX60)  Index exchange-traded
fund instead of cash to minimize the effects of index movements.
The fund charges a performance of 20 percent of any cumulative
return above the S&P/TSX. If it falls short of the index in a
given month, fees are not charged until the cumulative return in
subsequent months tops that of the index.  The S&P/TSX has struggled this year as commodity prices
slumped. Gold has dropped 19 percent this year and copper 10
percent as economic growth in  China , the world’s largest
consumer of raw materials and Canada’s second-largest trading
partner, slows.  China’s economy is projected by analysts to grow 7.5
percent in 2013 and 2014, the lowest annual increase since a 3.8
percent expansion in 1990, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Magna Surges  The fund’s top holdings include Valeant Pharmaceuticals,
Canada’s largest drug maker and the  best-performing  stock in the
S&P/TSX this year with a 76 percent gain, and  Magna
International Inc. (MG) , which has climbed 70 percent, the fourth-best performance in the index. Valeant shares were little
changed at C$104.43 at 4 p.m. in Toronto today.  Valeant, based in Laval, Quebec, has rallied following a
series of acquisitions including an $8.7 billion deal for
eyecare products company Bausch & Lomb Inc.  The  stock  has 17 buy ratings from analysts, two holds and
two sells, with an average 12-month price estimate of C$117.37,
implying a potential return of 12 percent from current levels.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman with Valeant, could not be
reached for comment.  Magna International, North America’s largest auto-parts
maker, has posted earnings that topped analysts’ estimates for
seven straight  quarters , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’ve been revising our outlook for production volume in
North America, and higher sales translates to higher profit,”
Vince Galifi, chief financial officer of Magna, said on the
phone from Aurora, Ontario, yesterday. “We’re getting credit
for increasing our outlook each quarter, not only on the sales
side but also the operating margin.”  Other Holdings  Magna has raised its 2013 forecasts twice this year, in May
and August. The stock rose to a record C$84.37 on Aug. 13.  Other equities in the fund include  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) , which
has climbed 19 percent this month after the company said it
would consider joint ventures, partnerships or a sale; Canadian
Pacific, up 23 percent in 2013; and Methanex, the second-best
materials  stock  in Canada with a 52 percent gain.  In its most recent re-balancing, the fund sold its
positions in Manulife Financial Corp., WestJet Airlines Ltd. and
Gildan Activewear Inc., Chiadmi said. Manulife and WestJet have
underperformed their respective industries since the end of the
second quarter.  Another fund in Canada which also uses a momentum model is
the  First Asset Morningstar Canada Momentum Index ETF (WXM) , which has
returned 10 percent as of July 31 with a market value of about
C$23 million. The ETF charges a management fee of 0.6 percent.  ‘Perpetual Motion’  One of the flaws of the momentum strategy is that it can be
difficult to tell if a stock is still accelerating or has
already reached its peak speed, said ValueTrend’s Richards.  “If you floor your car forever the engine will blow,”
Richards said. “Nothing can experience perpetual motion. The
key is knowing when to get out.”  The price momentum strategy is a risky one, and should be
used in combination with fundamental investing, Chiadmi said.  “It’s a high-volatility strategy,” Chiadmi said. “The
advantage comes in how you mix it with your portfolio.”  One example is when the fund rebalanced in March 2009, near
the  start  of a post-recession market rally, Chiadmi said.  As the fund had rebalanced under to much more “defensive”
positions, Chiadmi watched helpless as the fund missed out on a
21 percent gain in the S&P/TSX during the quarter between March
and June.  “We spent the rest of the year trying to catch up, to re-adapt to a bull market,” he said. “Because we’re re-balancing
every three months, for three months we have to live with names
that might not necessarily be the right ones.”  Chiadmi considers the three-month re-balancing a “trade-off” that allows for active management without trying to
outsmart the market and penalize investors with transaction
fees.  “There’s very nice behavior in a sideways market, it tends
to be more diversified,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  