-- Loonie Going Negative to Bond Yields Means Poloz on Hold
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-22T13:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/loonie-going-negative-to-rates-favors-boc-on-hold-canada-credit.html
Rising bond yields  are coinciding
with a falling currency for the first time in six years, aiding
 Canada ’s shift from consumer to export-led growth and bolstering
the case for the central bank to keep interest rates on hold.  The  negative correlation  between yields on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year government bond and the currency reached 23
percent yesterday, the most since 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 120-day rolling correlation first
went negative June 21. The two had been positively correlated
since February 2007, with that positive correlation reaching as
high as 75 percent in 2010, meaning the Canadian dollar had a 75
percent probability of rising when bond yields rose.  With the global economic recovery picking up, foreigners
are exiting Canadian debt at a record pace, sending borrowing
costs higher, while speculation the  Federal Reserve  will slow
monetary stimulus has caused the U.S. dollar to gain against
most currencies, including Canada’s. The combination of rising
borrowing costs and a falling currency are welcome developments
for the Bank of Canada, which is looking to shift growth from
consumers carrying record debt to exports.  “Some upward movement in bond yields, combined with the
falling Canadian dollar, would help this transition to more
export-led growth, which is something the Bank of Canada is not
only forecasting but would find desirable,” Derek Burleton,
deputy chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone
from Toronto. “It fits in with the story of a transition to
more export-led growth.”  Fed Tapering  While Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz has said he’ll
keep  interest rates  on hold until signs of sustained economic
growth, the Fed has signaled it will reduce stimulus this year.
Speculation the U.S. central bank will slow its $85 billion a
month of bond purchases as early as next month has sent yields
up worldwide and reversed the flow of international capital into
Canadian debt that’s lowered borrowing costs and supported the
currency.  International investors looking for safety  poured  money
into Canadian government bonds following the 2008 financial
crisis, with 2009 seeing the largest international inflows on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign holders  sold  a record C$19 billion ($18 billion) of
Canadian bonds in June, Statistics Canada data released last
week showed. That selloff pared the year-to-date purchases to
C$16.1 billion, about half the pace foreigners were buying
Canadian debt at the same time last year.  Yield Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, the  Bank of Canada  auctioned
C$3.3 billion of two-year bonds at an average yield of 1.271
percent. The sale drew C$9.38 billion of bids, for a bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand, of 2.84. The 1 percent debt
matures in November 2015.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government was unchanged yesterday from a day earlier at 121
basis points, or 1.21 percentage points, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Canada Corporate Index. Yields rose to
3.31 percent, from 3.29 percent on Aug. 20.  Spreads on provincial bonds held steady at 73 basis points,
according to Bank of America’s Canadian Provincial & Municipal
Index. Yields increased to 3.15 percent, from 3.13 percent.  Federal- government bonds  have lost 3.1 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Provincial
securities have dropped 4.2 percent, and corporate bonds have
declined 0.8 percent.  Dollar Bets  The possibility the Fed will end its quantitative-easing
stimulus program has been negative for Canada’s dollar. The
central bank’s asset-buying has raised concern it would lead to
inflation and risk debasing the U.S. currency. Investors are
betting lower bond purchases will cause the U.S. dollar to
strengthen against its Canadian peer.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, has fallen from within a
cent of parity in May to C$1.0501 per  U.S. dollar  at 9 a.m. in
Toronto.  The Fed will slow its bond purchases at policy makers’
Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  The Bank of Canada is not expected to raise its key rate
until the end of 2014, according to the median estimate of an
Aug. 8 Bloomberg economist survey with 23 responses. The
benchmark has been held at 1 percent since September 2010. The
central bank’s next interest-rate decision is Sept. 4.  ‘Different Mix’  The Bank of Canada has cited a high Canadian dollar as an
impediment to exports and record consumer-debt levels as the
biggest threat to the Canadian economy. Bank Governor Poloz has
said there are recent signs of a “constructive evolution” in
 household debt .  “I’m sure in the last few years they would have much
preferred to see a slightly different mix, i.e., higher interest
rates and a lower Canadian dollar, and in some ways market
events are handing them that mix,”  Doug Porter , chief economist
at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto yesterday.
“This trend may last a while, where the correlation starts to
go the other way and higher yields do indeed go hand-in-hand
with a weaker Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s 10-year government bond yield rose to 2.78
percent, the highest level since July 2011, and Canadian banks
have raised their  mortgage rates  as yields increased.  Royal Bank of Canada boosted mortgage rates yesterday, its
fourth increase since bond yields began to rise in May, after
the Bank of Montreal raised its rates the day before, following
similar moves by Toronto-Dominion Bank and  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)   Currency Outlook  The rising rates, combined with government actions to
tighten mortgage lending, have helped bring Canada’s ratio of
debt to disposable income  down  from the record highs reached in
September.  The Canadian dollar will fall to C$1.05 per U.S. dollar by
the end of the year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 62 economists.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the top forecaster for
the loonie in the second quarter, sees it at C$1.06 by year-end,
while second-place Toronto-Dominion Bank predicts it will weaken
to C$1.09, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Magna International Inc. (MG) ,  North America ’s largest auto-parts manufacturer, based in Aurora, Ontario, has not seen any
benefit yet from the falling Canadian dollar but will if the
trend continues, said Vince Galifi, the company’s chief
financial officer.  “In terms of export sales, particularly to the  United
States  more so than  Europe , if there’s a view that the trend in
the currency was longer-term and permanent, that could impact
the behavior of our customers and where they make their
purchases,” he said by phone from Aurora. “It’s a benefit to
our Canadian plants exporting to the United States.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  