-- Oppenheimer Lawsuit Magnifies Bondholder Backlash: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-08-22T15:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/oppenheimer-lawsuit-magnifies-bondholder-backlash-brazil-credit.html
OppenheimerFunds Inc.’s threat to
sell some of its $2 billion in Brazilian fixed-income holdings
over a legal dispute with state-backed  JBS SA (JBSS3)  is underscoring
increased discontent with Latin America’s biggest nation.  Art Steinmetz, chief investment officer at the New York-based fund, said Aug. 20 “things are going backward in the
country” and he’s “distressed that a company that is partially
owned by the Brazilian government is handling creditor rights in
a cavalier fashion.” JBS, 30 percent owned by Brazil through
state banks, is leasing a plant from a French poultry producer
in violation of Oppenheimer’s rights over the unit, which was
offered as collateral in a $100 million defaulted loan, he said.  The lawsuit comes at a time when Brazilian companies led by
 Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA have left
investors with the biggest losses on dollar-denominated bonds in
emerging markets after  Peru  this year. As President Dilma Rousseff boosts government involvement in Brazil’s electricity
and banking industries, the nation’s corporate bonds have fallen
8.5 percent as sluggish economic growth fuels speculation the
country will have its ratings cut.  “Investors see Brazil as a country with a lot of
government intervention,” Siddharth Dahiya, who helps oversee
$11.8 billion of emerging-market debt as money manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management, said in a phone interview from
 London . “And the growth outlook isn’t looking great.”  Not Buying  An official for JBS, who can’t be identified in accordance
with policy, said the company was just leasing the plant from
Chateaulin, France-based Doux SA, not buying it and therefore
not taking on debt. JBS holds an option to buy the plant by
2022, said the official, who declined to provide further
details.  Guillaume Foucault, a Paris-based external press officer
for Doux, declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Brazilian development bank BNDES  holds  19.85 percent of JBS
while Caixa Economica Federal owns 10.07 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Caixa Economica Federal and BNDES
declined to comment in e-mailed statements.  Oppenheimer loaned the funds to Doux in 2008 and claims
it’s owed $73.5 million in principal and interest, according to
a case filed against Doux in the State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  in June. In July, Oppenheimer, which oversees $208
billion in assets, filed a lawsuit in Sao Paulo against JBS, the
world’s top beef and poultry producer, to seize and sell the
Passo Fundo plant.  Rousseff Policies  Oppenheimer’s corporate bond holdings include state-controlled banks Banco do Brasil SA and Banco do Estado do Rio
Grande do Sul SA, as well as Oi SA, Banco BTG Pactual SA, Gerdau
SA and Braskem SA, according to filings of Oppenheimer’s
 Emerging Markets  Debt, International Bond and Global Strategic
Income funds.  As part of her effort to revive economic growth, Rousseff
prompted state banks to boost lending to six times the rate of
privately held lenders in the first half of 2013 after
announcing a plan in September to reduce power costs as much as
32 percent.  Analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank have cut 2013
economic growth forecasts by more than one percentage point so
far this year after gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent
in 2012, the worst performance in three years.  Not ‘Helping’  Standard & Poor’s in June cut the outlook on Brazil’s BBB
rating, which is two levels above junk, to negative, citing
slower economic growth and expansionary fiscal policy.  “The bondholders that once liked Brazil aren’t liking it
anymore,” Luiz Campos, money manager at Dinosaur Securities,
said in a phone interview. “ Rousseff isn’t helping. Brazil is
not experiencing a good moment economically. It’s all about the
macroeconomics. Everything looks bad for Brazil’s corporates.”  The base-case scenario for Brazil is a downgrade in the
first quarter of 2014,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a report to clients
on Aug. 16.  Shamaila Khan, an emerging-market money manager at
AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees about $444 billion of
assets, said the selloff in Brazilian debt has created a buying
opportunity, particularly for companies such as food exporters
that could benefit from a weakening currency, which makes their
products more competitive.  Real Tumbles  The real has plunged 16 percent this year, the most in
emerging markets after the South African rand.  “There’s room to buy, but it depends on the credit,” she
said in a telephone interview from New York. “Some companies
are exporters that benefit from depreciation. They didn’t do
very well when Brazil grew at high growth rates because they
were squeezed by the currency. You really have to
differentiate.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 248 basis points at
10:15 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brazil ’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
climbed 15 basis points to 221 basis points.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 2.4543 per dollar, after
plunging 2.5 percent yesterday. Yields on interest-rate futures
contracts due in January 2014 increased 11 basis points to 9.31
percent.  BNDES should reduce holdings in privately owned companies
to avoid getting pulled into disputes such as the one between
JBS and Oppenheimer, according to Michael Roche, an emerging-market strategist at broker-dealer Seaport Group LLC.  BNDES Lending  Rio de Janeiro-based BNDES, which holds stakes in 140
Brazilian companies, has increased its lending as part of the
government’s effort to spur growth and has expanded its equity
investments. Its lending doubled since 2007 to 156 billion reais
in 2012.  “Is it worth it for the state banks to get dragged into
measures such as this?” Roche said in a telephone interview
from New York. “It’s more important for the private sector to
sort this stuff out. JBS is not a company in distress now, and
the government may be thinking it has to get out of it as soon
as possible, instead of hanging around longer than need be. Know
when to fold ’em.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  