-- Options Market Suffers Biggest Disruption Since April
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n ,   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-22T06:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/options-market-suffers-biggest-disruption-since-april.html
When Scott Maidel of Russell
Investments answered the phone 20 minutes after the start of
U.S. equity trading on Aug. 20, there was a  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group
Inc. employee on the line with a request: stop sending orders
for stock options.  Confusion was sweeping trading desks as prices for equity
derivatives swung without reason, leading to speculation a
computer program had gone haywire at one of the 12 U.S. options
exchanges. Contracts traded for $26 one minute and $1 the  next .  The representative on the phone explained what was
happening: Goldman Sachs was having a technology issue that
prevented it from handling orders for listed contracts. While
Maidel, who helps oversee more than $237 billion as a money
manager at Russell Investments, was grateful for the swift
explanation, Wall Street’s latest computer error angered
professionals from  California  to London who didn’t know whether
their transactions would be voided by exchanges.  “I traded with someone and seven hours later I still
wasn’t 100 percent sure that the trade was good,” said Daniel Brady, president of San Francisco-based Entropy Capital LLC, a
proprietary, event-driven trading firm. “It’s unfair to the
counterparty. They don’t know exactly what their position is
until several hours later in the day. What are they going to
do?”  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Amex Options said less than two hours after
the malfunction that “as permitted by  the rules , we anticipate
that most of the impacted trades will be busted.” Goldman
Sachs, which generated $5.8 billion in revenue from equities
last year, said in an e-mail that any potential losses would be
within the firm’s risk limits and not material to its  finances .  Trading Failures  The breakdown is one of a growing number of trading
failures that have coincided with the expanding complexity of
global financial markets. U.S. equity trading, which began with
one group of men under a buttonwood tree on Wall Street more
than two centuries ago, has become dispersed among at least 50
computerized platforms accessible around the world.  Options volume has surged more than fivefold in the last
decade to 16.7 million contracts a day last year as demand for
securities that protect against losses and speculate on the
direction of stocks grew, according to data compiled by the
Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  “You can go down the road and say any institution, whether
it be Goldman or any bank, and say it can happen on any given
day to anybody,” Ben Schwartz, the Chicago-based chief market
strategist at broker Lightspeed Financial Inc., said in an
interview. “It’s a positive thing that they react immediately
in a timely manner.”  Signs of Trouble  The first sign of trouble came three minutes after the 9:30
a.m. open in New York, when two exchanges owned by  Nasdaq  OMX
Group Inc. announced they were routing orders around NYSE Amex
Options. The process, known as self-help and invoked when a
trading platform detects errors at a  rival , allows them to stop
sending bids and offers to the affected exchange until the issue
is resolved.  Notices followed in the next five minutes from exchanges
run by CBOE Holdings Inc. in Chicago and Lenexa, Kansas-based
Bats Global Markets Inc. NYSE’s other platform for equity
derivatives, Arca Options, even took the precaution.  By the afternoon, Goldman Sachs spokesman David Wells said,
exchanges were working to sort out the bad trades. The
malfunction affected prices for securities with ticker symbols
starting with the letters I through K.  Spewing Orders  Software errors at Goldman caused the firm to spew
unintentional orders from the first moments of trading, a person
briefed on the matter told Bloomberg News. An internal system 
that the firm uses to help prepare to meet market demand
inadvertently produced orders with inaccurate price limits and
sent them to exchanges, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  The scope of the error and any losses Goldman Sachs may
suffer are still unknown. While exchanges notified clients about
which trades were broken, they have not issued a full account of
the results of their reviews. The majority of the reviewed
trades at the International Securities Exchange were adjusted
and not canceled, based on the exchange’s rules, according to
spokeswomanMolly McGregor.  Goldman Sachs “handled it well,” Maidel of Seattle-based
Russell Investments said in an e-mail yesterday. “I appreciate
the honesty and transparency.”  The New York-based investment bank declined to comment for
this story, Wells said yesterday. Representatives of NYSE,
Nasdaq, Bats, CBOE and the Boston Options Exchange also declined
to comment.  Biggest Trades  Of the 500 biggest options trades in the first 15 minutes
markets were open, 405 of them were for tickers starting with I
through K and priced at $1, data compiled by Trade Alert LLC and
Bloomberg show. About 113, or 28 percent, have been canceled,
the  data  show. NYSE Amex Options accounted for 67 percent of the
canceled trades, compared with 18 percent for the Nasdaq Options
Market and 12 percent for the International Securities Exchange.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, sought to
profit from the errant trades, according to one person with
direct knowledge of the situation. The New York-based company
gained millions of dollars by buying and selling mispriced
options before exchanges began canceling the trades, erasing
much of the profit, the person said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment.  ICICI Puts  At Entropy Capital’s office in San Francisco’s financial
district, Brady’s team pounced on the Goldman error and looked
for contracts to profit from. One was September puts conveying
the right to sell U.S. shares of  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  at a strike
price of $22.  Quotes for the contract were priced at $1, when the fair
value should have been about 30 cents, Brady said. His firm was
able to sell some of the puts and the transactions weren’t
voided, he said. That contract rose as much as 1,155 percent to
$2.76 on Aug. 20. It closed at 29 cents yesterday.  “It was kind of disbelief coupled with like a frenzy,” he
said. He declined to say how much profit he made on the trades.  In  London , Gareth Ryan, the managing director of IUR
Capital Ltd., had positions in the iShares Russell 2000 ETF and
other securities and watched as the prices of the contracts went
haywire.  ‘Way Off’  “We saw quotes on put spreads and call spreads that were
way off in the first few minutes,” he said in a phone
interview. “It changed our client portfolios significantly at
the open but an hour after the open when the spreads came in we
realized that something was wrong in the quotes.”  Calls on the iShares Russell 2000 ETF went from $26.23 to
$1 within the first five minutes exchanges were open that day.
Almost 1,000 of the December 2013 calls that traded at $1 were
among the canceled transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  NYSE Amex Options was flooded with the deluge of bad trades
as it began scrutinizing each one to determine which to void.
The exchange told clients after the close that it wouldn’t
complete its review during regular business hours. Officials at
other exchanges continued to cancel and adjust trades through
the evening before completing the process yesterday.  ‘Angry Feedback’  “The talk from all of the firms was that a market maker
was on the other side of those trades, so the trades would be
adjusted, not busted,” Mark S. Longo, founder and chief
executive officer of Options Insider Inc., said by e-mail.
“Clearly Amex received a lot of angry feedback about that
decision because they announced later that they would review the
trades on an individual basis to determine whether to bust or
adjust them.”  “It was a bad deal for everyone,” Longo said. “Goldman
clearly lost millions but many of the market makers who took the
other sides of those trades could have also lost millions if
they hedged.”  Investors in U.S. equity markets have become accustomed to
technical breakdowns that disrupt markets, from Knight Capital
Group Inc.’s near bankruptcy last year to Bats’s failure to get
its own stock to trade in its initial public offering and
Nasdaq’s bungling of Facebook Inc.’s IPO. On April 25, CBOE shut
its Chicago Board Options Exchange for three-and-a-half hours
following a malfunction during preparations for a
reconfiguration of its system.  ‘New Normal’  “GS’s recent snafu is the ‘new normal’ in electronic
trading, the equivalent of the old fat-finger trade, except that
now there’s less of a human safeguard in dealing with them
quickly,” David Weiss, a senior analyst at Aite Group LLC, said
in an e-mail. “So the vaunted speed and efficiency of
electronic trading can greatly magnify the impact.”  Regulators have tightened rules at exchanges to avoid
market disruptions such as the May 2010 errors that briefly sent
the Dow Jones Industrial Average down almost 1,000 points
because of a faulty algorithm in what’s become known as the
flash crash.  Under the limit-up/limit-down system implemented this year,
trades aren’t allowed to take place more than a specified
percentage above or below the average price over the preceding
five minutes. If prices don’t move away from the limits within
15 seconds, the market declares a trading pause.  Options Landscape  Goldman’s mishap highlighted different rules in the U.S.
options landscape, a market that has expanded in five years to a
dozen separate exchanges from seven. While the trading platforms
are tied together by rules guaranteeing investors get the best
prices, they lack uniform guidelines for voiding trades.  Rules on International Securities Exchange say trades with
the most basic errors will be broken if they involve someone
known as a priority customer, usually an individual, unless they
agree to an adjustment price within 30 minutes of being
notified. The NYSE cancels a trade if one party isn’t a market
maker and both fail to agree to adjustment within 30 minutes. At
the Chicago Board Options Exchange, a trade with one or two
market makers will be adjusted.  “Each exchange sets its own clearly erroneous trade
guidelines but the SEC wants them to be similar,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “In the
options world, there’s more room for interpretation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  