-- Mortgage Rates in U.S. Jump to Highest Level in Two Years
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-08-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-jump-to-highest-level-in-two-years.html
Mortgage rates in the U.S. jumped to
a two-year high, increasing borrowing costs for homebuyers as
sales accelerate.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.58
percent this week from 4.4 percent, Freddie Mac said in a
statement today. The average 15-year rate climbed to 3.6 percent
from 3.44 percent, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance
company said. Both were the highest since July 2011.  Homebuyers are rushing to take advantage of  historically
low  borrowing costs before they increase any more. Existing-home
sales in July jumped 6.5 percent to the second-highest level in
six years, the National Association of Realtors reported
yesterday. Those transactions largely reflect closings of
contracts signed a month or two earlier, when mortgage rates
were just beginning to edge up.  “If you were considering buying, rates aren’t going to get
much better any time soon,” said Erin Lantz, director of
mortgages at Seattle-based  Zillow Inc. (Z)  “So buying sooner rather
than later makes sense.”  The 30-year fixed mortgage rate has climbed from 3.35
percent in early May as the Federal Reserve signaled it may
begin scaling back its bond-buying program aimed at lowering
borrowing costs. Policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to start reducing purchases
later this year if the economy improves, according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July meeting,
released yesterday.  September Taper  The FOMC will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
48 economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median
estimate called for a cut to $75 billion each month.  Rising mortgage rates have had the biggest effect on
refinancing. The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of
 applications  to lower monthly payments fell 7.7 percent in the
week ended Aug. 16, the 10th straight decline. A measure of
 purchases  rose 1.2 percent, the trade group said yesterday.  The 30-year fixed mortgage rate is well below its average
of about 6.3 percent for the past 20 years, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The 20-year average for a 15-year loan is
about 5.83 percent.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, isn’t “overly concerned” about the rise in rates as
long as the 30-year average stays below 6 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Niblock said on a conference call
yesterday. The company and larger competitor Home Depot Inc.
this week reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates and
raised their profit forecasts for 2013, buoyed by the housing
recovery.  “The rate increases will likely take some steam out of the
recent housing market rebound, but shouldn’t derail it as long
as job gains persist, homes continue to appreciate and rates
rise more gradually going forward,” Niblock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  