-- Motiva Port Arthur Crude Unit Said to Stay Shut as Barges Scarce
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-08-22T16:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/motiva-port-arthur-crude-unit-said-to-stay-shut-as-barges-scarce.html
Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port
Arthur,  Texas ,  refinery , may keep its largest crude unit offline
because vessels able to transport its output of vacuum gasoil
are in tight supply, a person familiar with operations said.  The 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit, stopped since an Aug.
17 fire damaged a hydrocracker that normally processes the
gasoil, may stay idle as long as Motiva can’t find an outlet for
the intermediate feedstock, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Double-hulled vessels required by U.S. environmental
regulations to ship crude and products are in short supply, the
person said. This could keep the refinery operating at less than
half its 600,000-barrel-a-day capacity during the two to six
weeks estimated for the hydrocracker repairs.  American-flagged tankers and barges, needed to move cargo
between U.S. ports, are in high demand to ship Eagle Ford crude
from  Corpus Christi  to refineries the Houston and New Orleans
areas. Production from shale formations in south Texas and  North
Dakota  has boosted domestic oil  output  this month to the highest
level since November 1989.  “It’s extremely tight,” said  Kevin Sterling , a senior
analyst with BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond, Virginia.
“Barges are running full throttle between Corpus Christi and
Houston to the Gulf. It’s going to stay tight for the
foreseeable future.”  Barges Used  Utilization rates above 90 percent and shippers’ increasing
use of long-term contracts on barges have contributed to the
scarcity, Sterling said.  Even before the Aug. 17 hydrocracker fire, Port Arthur
production had been curtailed since an Aug. 12 blaze in a sulfur
recovery unit’s reactor. The refinery is operating four nearby
hydrotreaters and three lube units at lower rates while the
sulfur unit is shut for repairs estimated to take as much as two
weeks, the person said.  Destin Singleton, a Houston-based spokeswoman for Motiva,
said today that the company hasn’t provided an update on the
status of the Port Arthur units. The refinery has said there was
an “operational issue” Aug. 17 and that while repairs are
being made, several integrated units will run at reduced rates
and others are being shut down.  The hobbling of Motiva Port Arthur’s output comes as
Motiva’s 255,000-barrel-a-day Convent,  Louisiana , refinery is
operating at reduced rates. The Convent plant in South Louisiana
west of  New Orleans  may have to keep a crude unit shut for a
month after an Aug. 19 fire, a person familiar with operations
said yesterday, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Motiva is a joint venture between refining units of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and the Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as  Saudi
Aramco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Houston at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  