-- OTP Bank Set for 1-Month Low on FX Loan Concern: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-08-22T12:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/otp-bank-set-for-1-month-low-on-fx-loan-concern-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Zrt. headed for a one-month
low after a magazine reported the Hungarian government is
considering making the conversion of foreign-currency mortgages
into forint compulsory, sparking concern banks may suffer.  Hungary’s largest lender  fell  as much as 1.9 percent to
4,200 forint, the lowest since July 19 on a closing basis,
before trading at 4,268 forint by 1:52 p.m. in Budapest. About
580,000 shares changed hands, comprising 40 percent of the
stock’s three-month average. The bank led declines on the
benchmark BUX index, which increased 0.2 percent.  Participation in the plan should be “mandatory,” though
borrowers would be able to opt-out, the Heti Valasz weekly
magazine reported, citing Gabor Orban, state secretary at the
 Economy Ministry . OTP lost 4.7 percent in July, when the
government announced plans to convert foreign-currency mortgages
into forint-linked loans, with banks bearing part of the burden.  “This drop is a result of the state secretary’s comments,
and shows that there is sill a lot of uncertainty over
government plans,” Eszter Toth, a Budapest-based equity trader
at CIB Bank Zrt., the Hungarian unit of  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ,
said by phone today. “Markets are still guessing details.”  Prime Minister Viktor Orban is seeking to re-denominate $8
billion of mortgages issued in currencies other than the forint
to ease the debt burden on homeowners after a weaker local
currency led to ballooning repayments. The plan, which is being
discussed with banks, will supplement earlier programs including
a 2011 initiative that allowed the repayment of loans in a lump
sum at below-market rates.  Unilateral Steps  A working group at the Hungarian Bank Association will
present plans to lenders’ executives by the end of this week,
Magyar Nemzet reported Aug. 1, without saying how it obtained
the information. Banks and the cabinet need to reach an
agreement by Sept. 30 or the government will be forced to take
steps unilaterally, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said in an
interview with TV2 on Aug. 4.  Six analysts  recommend  investors buy the shares of OTP,
while 11 have a hold rating and three say sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  