-- Tottenham Opens Europa League Playoffs With Rout; Swansea Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/tottenham-opens-europa-league-playoffs-with-rout-swansea-wins.html
Tottenham routed Dinamo Tbilisi 5-0
in the opening game of its Europa League soccer playoff, while
Swansea was a 5-1 winner against Petrolul Ploiesti.  Roberto Soldado  scored two goals as Tottenham, one of four
former champions of  Europe ’s second-tier club competition in the
playoff round, picked up the away win in  Georgia .  “The killer instinct was there from the chances we had and
that didn’t happen in Dinamo’s case,” Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas told reporters. “That is why, in the end, the
result is as expressive as it is.”  Wayne Routledge also scored twice as Swansea moved a step
closer to its first Europa League group-stage appearance with
the lopsided home win.  “At times we were ruthless, there were times we could have
got more,” Routledge said in an interview with ITV. “To get
five at home was a nice feeling.”  Among the other former champions, Eintracht Frankfurt and
Sevilla won, while Feyenoord was beaten 1-0 by Kuban Krasnodar.
The winners of the two-game playoffs advance to the group stage.
The return matches will be played Aug. 29.  Andros Townsend, Paulinho and Danny Rose also scored for
Tottenham, which won the competition in 1972 and 1984 when it
was known as the UEFA Cup.  Swansea Scorers  Michu, Wilfried Bony and Alejandro Pozuelo got goals to
help Swansea take a commanding advantage to the second game in
 Romania . Gheorghe Grozav scored with an overhead kick in the
87th minute for Petrolul.  Alexander Meier scored both goals as 1980 champion
Frankfurt beat Qarabag 2-0 in  Azerbaijan . Sevilla, which
captured back-to-back titles in 2006 and 2007, beat 10-man Slask
Wroclaw 4-1 at home as Marko Marin scored twice and Kevin
Gameiro once. Dudu was red-carded card in the second half.  Among other results, Jonathan Soriano scored three times as
Salzburg routed Zalgiris 5-0, Rijeka defeated Stuttgart 2-1,
Liberec scored twice in the second half to hand Udinese a 3-1
home loss, and Fiorentina beat Grasshoppers 2-1.  The 30 playoff winners will be joined in the group stage by
eight automatic qualifiers and the 10 playoff losers from the
elite  Champions League .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 