-- Lowe’s to Home Depot Sales Gains Depend on Housing Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-08-22T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/lowe-s-to-home-depot-sales-gains-contingent-on-housing-comeback.html
Tina Bailey is spending $20,000 to
create a master suite and may buy the bathroom fixtures from
Home Depot Inc. or  Lowe’s (LOW)  Cos.  “It’s going to increase the value of my home,” Bailey,
48, said of the improvements she’s making to the Greensboro,
North Carolina, house she bought in June for $178,000.  Buoyed by a recovering housing market, U.S. homeowners are
opening their wallets for renovations. Home Depot and Lowe’s
this week both reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
and raised their profit forecasts for 2013. Yesterday, Lowe’s
said profit for the year ending Jan. 31 will be about $2.10 a
share, up a nickel from its previous projection.  Rising home prices are boosting demand for appliances and
other big-ticket items that consumers were reluctant to buy in
the housing downturn, Lowe’s Chief Executive Officer Robert Niblock told analysts yesterday. The challenge will be to keep
luring big-spenders like Bailey next year, when some analysts
predict rising interest rates will put pressure on housing
sales, which in turn could damp demand for such high-margin
items as fridges, jacuzzi tubs and granite counters.  “For the next couple of quarters, there is good momentum
and visibility because of existing home sales, but mortgage
refinancing is slowing down,” said David Schick, an analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp. in Baltimore who earlier this year
downgraded Home Depot and Lowe’s to hold from buy. “Next there
may be a little bit of deceleration” in housing activity.  Two-Year High  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan rose to 4.68
percent in the week ending Aug. 16, matching a two-year high
reached in early July, from 4.56 percent the week prior, the
Mortgage Bankers Association in  Washington  said yesterday.  Bigger increases in rates will “reduce the pool of
eligible homebuyers,” Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the
National Association of Realtors, said yesterday.  As long as interest rates don’t exceed 6 percent on 30-year
mortgages, Lowe’s isn’t “overly concerned,” Niblock told
analysts yesterday.  “The rate increases will likely take some steam out of the
recent housing market rebound, but shouldn’t derail it as long
as job gains persist, homes continue to appreciate and rates
rise more gradually going forward,” he said.  In the quarter ended Aug. 4, Home Depot’s net income rose
17 percent to $1.8 billion, or $1.24 a share, from $1.53
billion, or $1.01. Analysts projected $1.21 on average. Lowe’s
net income increased 26 percent to $941 million, or 88 cents a
share, from $747 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier. Analysts
projected 79 cents.  Paint Sales  Three years ago,  Home Depot (HD)  and Lowe’s were selling a lot
of paint and carpet to shoppers who couldn’t afford to move and
wanted to at least fix up their existing residences.  Now rising home prices are “giving homeowners renewed
confidence and willingness to spend on home-improvement projects
that may have been delayed during the downturn,” Niblock said
in a telephone interview.  Last month, as buyers rushed to lock in rates before they
increased further, sales of previously owned homes surged to the
second-highest level in more than six years, according to
figures from the NAR. The buying frenzy has rippled through the
construction industry, which in turn has boosted sales at the
home-improvement chains.  Yesterday, Thomas Rule, an architect and contractor, waited
in line at a Home Depot in the Hollywood neighborhood of Los
Angeles to buy board for a bathroom renovation at a historic
hillside home. Business began picking up four or five months ago
and Rule now has four construction jobs underway.  Day Workers  “I need more people and more hours in the day,” Rule
said. He employs five people full-time and hires extra day
workers when needed.  Growth of home improvement spending “should begin to
moderate as we move into 2014,” Kermit Baker, director of the
remodeling futures program at Harvard University’s Joint Center
for Housing Studies, said last month.  Home Depot is poised for slower growth this year than in
2012, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The retailer
may increase revenue 4.8 percent in 2013 compared to an increase
of 6.2 percent a year earlier. Analysts project that Lowe’s
revenue will rise 4.3 percent this year, up from less than 1
percent in 2012, when the company was struggling to upgrade its
stores and technology.  Home Depot rose 0.4 percent to $74 at the close in New
York. Lowe’s climbed 3.4 percent to $47.39.  Home Depot shares have slipped 2.6 percent since May 10,
the end of the week that mortgage rates began rising. Lowe’s has
advanced 13 percent since then, more than half of that since
yesterday after it reported earnings. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has risen 1.4 percent in the same period.  Chris Bertelsen, who oversees $2.1 billion as chief
investment officer at Global Financial Private Capital, said his
Sarasota, Florida-based firm sold its Lowe’s shares earlier this
month and doesn’t own Home Depot.  “Even though I don’t think the recovery in housing is
over, I think the fat part of the recovery is probably behind
us,” he said in a telephone interview. “The increase in
mortgage rates has rattled these stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  