-- Pakistan Says Soldiers Shot as India Border Tension Deepens
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-23T04:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/pakistan-says-soldier-shot-as-india-border-tension-deepens-2-.html
The Pakistani army said Indian
troops shot dead two of its soldiers just days after an officer
was killed, as border tensions threaten to jeopardize efforts to
improve relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.  The soldiers were killed in two separate incidents
yesterday, the first near Rawalakot and the second in the
Hotspring sector of the disputed Kashmir region, the Pakistani
army said in a text message. Two others were injured, it said.
An army captain was killed near Skardu and a soldier seriously
wounded on Aug. 20, according to a Pakistani army official who
asked not to be named as he’s not authorized to speak publicly.  Pakistan summoned India’s high commissioner yesterday to
protest the “indiscriminate firing” and asked New Delhi to
“desist from such acts,” according to a statement from
Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry. N.N. Joshi, a spokesman for the
Indian army, said he was not immediately able to comment.  The violence may damage the chances of Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Pakistani Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  holding talks at the  United Nations  in  New York  next
month. Singh said in a speech last week that Pakistan needs to
prevent its territory being used as a base for attacks on India
if relations between the countries are to improve.  Even so, such skirmishes between India and Pakistan are not
unusual and the situation tends to cool down, according to G. Parthasarathy, a former India High Commissioner to Pakistan and
now a visiting professor at the New Delhi-based Centre for
Policy Research. “I think it will reach a point where both
sides will feel satisfied that they have settled the score,”
Parthasarathy said.  Trading Fire  India and Pakistan have been  trading  fire and counter-accusations since the deaths of five Indian soldiers on the
Kashmir border earlier this month. Indian Defense Minister A.K. Antony told parliament on Aug. 20 that Pakistani troops carried
out that attack. Pakistan has denied involvement and accused
India of breaking a cease-fire agreement.  “For the last 10 years for most of the time the cease-fire
has held,” said S. Chandrasekharan, director of the New Delhi-based South Asia Analysis Group. “The situation has changed in
the last 15 days,” Chandrasekharan said.  Pakistan had proposed resuming peace talks after dialogue
stalled amid some of the most serious border clashes in a decade
in Kashmir at the start of the year. Pakistan suggested dates
for talks on access to water from major rivers, and the Sir
Creek maritime border, as well as the meeting between Singh and
Sharif.  The talks will only take place if there is a reduction in
border violence, Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman for the Indian
Foreign Ministry, said at a briefing in  New Delhi  yesterday.
“An environment in which terrorism or violence is perpetuated
against India is not the right type of environment for this,”
Akbaruddin said.  Domestic Pressures  The neighbors have fought two of their three wars since
1947 over Kashmir, which is divided between the countries and
claimed by both.  India’s government faces elections next year and will be
under pressure from the main opposition party to take a hard
line against any provocation, Chandrasekharan said, while in
Pakistan the army may be trying to prove its independence from a
new government.  Sharif returned to power in a May general election, more
than 13 years after his second period as premier was cut short
by a 1999 army coup. He is battling to revive the  Pakistan 
economy amid a spike in sectarian violence and electricity
blackouts of as long as 12 hours a day.  Sharif led a defense panel meeting yesterday that called
for the use of all military and diplomatic channels to prevent
cease-fire violations, Pakistan’s foreign office said in a
statement.  India Demands  Defense Minister Antony said on Aug. 20 that the government
was ready to respond if Pakistan continued with attacks. He
called for Pakistan to take action against its own troops that
he accused of carrying out this month’s attack and one in
January when one of three soldiers killed was beheaded.  “Our restraint should not be taken for granted,” Antony
told parliament.  In the first seven months of this year there were 57 cease-fire violations along the border, 80 percent more than the same
period last year, Antony said in parliament Aug. 8.  India  had
successfully foiled 17 infiltration attempts this year and
killed 19 militants in the last two months, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  