-- Pandora Falls as Sales Hiring to Crimp Quarterly Profit
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-23T20:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/pandora-falls-as-third-quarter-profit-forecast-misses.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
online radio service, fell the most in more than eight months
after forecasting third-quarter profit that will miss analysts’
estimates as the company invests to expand its sales staff.  Pandora dropped 13 percent to $18.91 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest decline since Dec. 5, after issuing its
forecast yesterday. The shares, which have more than  doubled 
this year, led decliners in the Russell 1000 Index.  The company is investing in new technologies, products and
sales staff to drive continued growth, Chief Executive Officer
 Joe Kennedy  said in an interview after Pandora released second-quarter results. The number of active users surged 30 percent to
71.2 million during the period, the company said. A portion of
Pandora’s revenue gains will be spent on expanding the business,
Kennedy said.  “We want to take a healthy part of our margin growth and
reinvest it back into the company,” Kennedy said.  Adjusted profit for the current period will be 3 cents to 6
cents a share, below the 8-cent average of analysts’ estimates,
Oakland, California-based Pandora said in a statement. For the
full year, results will range from break-even to profit of 5
cents excluding items. Analysts had estimated 5 cents.  Second-quarter sales advanced 55 percent to $157.4 million,
beating the $156.6 million average of 17 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding items, profit of 4 cents a
share beat the 2-cent average estimate.  Annual Forecast  For the fiscal year ending in January, Pandora forecast
revenue of $640 million to $655 million, including subscription
reserves, greater than the $635.7 million forecast of analysts.  “Top line guidance is way above consensus,”  Sameet Sinha ,
an analyst with B. Riley & Co., said in an e-mail. “The bottom
line is below, as the company is investing.”  Pandora is removing a 40-hour monthly limit on mobile
listening starting Sept. 1. The company has found better ways to
blunt music costs, its biggest expense, without affecting users’
experience, Chief Financial Officer Mike Herring said on a
conference call. There are enough ad sales to fill the excess
listening hours resulting from removing the cap, he said.  Pandora is seeking to balance the rapid growth of mobile
listeners, and the resulting increase in music royalties, with
the company’s need to sell enough advertising to fill all those
hours of streaming. In the period, Pandora paid $21.09 for every
1,000 hours of programming and averaged $41.73 in ad revenue on
computers and mobile devices, the company said.  ‘Margin Squeeze’  “Total listener hours will reaccelerate, which is a good
thing, but higher content costs will squeeze margins and EPS,”
 Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at  Wedge Partners , said in an e-mail.  Advertising sales rose 44 percent to $128.5 million,
missing the $133 million estimate of  Scott Devitt , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley. Pandora has sales offices in 29 local markets in
the U.S. and has boosted its sales force by 73 percent from a
year ago, Kennedy said.  The online service began competing directly with  radio
stations  in May for the $15 billion U.S. local ad market, after
Pandora started selling commercial time on two of the biggest
systems used by marketers to buy ad time on terrestrial
stations.  “We are seeing excellent traction,” Kennedy said.
“‘Local radio ad dollars are a minority of our total but they
are the fastest-growing portion of our revenue.’’  Subscription revenue, mostly from the $34-a-year
commercial-free  Pandora One  service, more than doubled to $28.8
million, according to the statement. Devitt had forecast $22.1
million from subscriptions.  After items such as stock-based compensation costs, the
second-quarter loss amounted to $7.79 million, or 4 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $5.4 million, or 3 cents, a year
earlier. Analysts had forecast a loss of $5.8 million, or 3
cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  