-- Pentagon Weighs Firing Thousands Under 2014 Spending Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/pentagon-weighs-firing-thousands-under-2014-spending-cuts.html
The Defense Department may have to
fire at least 6,272 civilian employees if automatic cuts known
as sequestration slice $52 billion from its fiscal 2014 budget,
according to a Pentagon planning document.  Additional  budget  analysis is “likely to produce further
reductions” as the services focus on shrinking their contract
labor forces, according to a Pentagon “execution plan”
obtained by Bloomberg News. The job cuts, although less than 1
percent of the non-uniformed workforce, would mark an escalation
from the unpaid leave mandated under sequestration in the
current fiscal year.  The services should expect a $475 billion budget after
sequestration cuts for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1,
almost 10 percent less than the pending $526.6 billion request,
according to the document dated Aug. 1. Sequestration would
result in 16 percent reductions in the Pentagon’s procurement
and research spending and 12 percent cuts in operations,
maintenance and military construction.  For the most part, major weapons programs aren’t being
targeted for extensive reductions, according to the plan, which
was a presentation by Pentagon budget and cost-assessment
officials for generals and admirals who oversee force structure
and resources for their respective services.  It offers more detail than previously disclosed about the
potential impact of cuts on fiscal 2014 spending. Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel, in a July 10 letter to Congress, gave a
broad picture of “abrupt, deep” cuts to the military.  The planning document is stamped “Draft/Pre-Decisional”
and said no final decisions have been made.  ‘Starting Immediately’  Jennifer Elzea, a spokeswoman for the Pentagon comptroller,
said in an e-mailed statement that she “cannot provide comment
on pre-decisional documents.”  To accommodate this year’s $37 billion in sequestration
cuts, the Pentagon required 85 percent of its civilian workers
to each take about six days of unpaid furloughs. “No service is
planning fiscal 2014 furloughs,” the plan said. Instead, the
department is preparing for  dismissals , known euphemistically as
“reductions in force,” or RIFs.  “Realistically, it is difficult to execute a RIF in fiscal
2014 without starting immediately,” with some of the necessary
paperwork submitted no later than Sept. 15, it said.  The Army would lose more than 2,100 workers from a 263,900-person civilian workforce, and the Navy would cut as many as
2,672 of 214,000 people. Department-wide agencies would dismiss
1,500 people from a projected 137,000-person force, with most
coming from the Defense Contract Management Agency.  Falling Morale  The Air Force “will require targeted” reductions to its
planned 185,400-person civilian workforce, though the number
hasn’t yet been determined, according to the document. The Army
would also release 1,000 contractors.  Firings, if they occur, will result in a “significant
skill-set mismatch and degradation in morale,” it said.  If sequestration continues into fiscal 2015, according to
the plan, the Pentagon would need congressional help to increase
“enhanced selective early retirement” and improve voluntary
retirement incentives and selective early departure dates.  For fiscal 2014, the Pentagon also may need to ask Congress
for “a massive reprogramming, possibly moving tens of billions
among accounts,” according to the planning document, which said
it would be “very difficult to secure congressional approval.”  Readiness “would, at best, stay at degraded fiscal 2013
level and in many cases would continue to decline,” with half
of the Air Force’s active-duty fighters and bombers declared
not-combat-ready and two Navy air wings shut for six months, it
said.  Procurement Reductions  Cuts would “affect procurement and research/development
most heavily, especially non-major procurement” such as
accounts that bankroll Army vehicles and Air Force missile and
ammunition accounts, it said.  The Army’s pending $16 billion procurement request would be
cut to $12.6 billion with sequestration reductions; the Navy’s
would drop to $37.9 billion from $44.1 billion and the Air
Force’s would shrink to $15.5 billion from $18.8 billion.  The accounts with the largest percentage cuts under full
sequestration are those that bankroll Army aircraft and a
category for “other procurement” -- such as vehicles, combat
engineering, bridging, maintenance and material handling
equipment, and Air Force ammunition and missiles, according to
the document.  The Air Force’s “other procurement” request would be cut
by 30 percent to $1.6 billion. That account pays for non-major
programs such as mission planning systems, drug interdiction,
combat training ranges, radios and satellite modifications.  Major Programs  The Air Force would keep current funding for its version of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter,  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s KC-46 tanker
and its long-range bomber program.  The Navy would be able to sign all contracts planned for
2014 for vessels funded under earlier appropriations. It would
be forced to cut one of the four Littoral Combat Ships from its
2014 funding request.  Pentagon officials also estimated that the purchase of 25
Navy aircraft would probably be cut, including unspecified
numbers of Boeing F/A-18 and Lockheed Martin F-35 jets, Textron
Inc.-Boeing V-22 Ospreys and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  MH-60
helicopters.  A planned overhaul to the CVN-73 USS George Washington
aircraft carrier would be delayed, the document said.  The Air Force would also have to delay additional purchases
of two Advanced EHF and two Space-Based Infrared System-High
satellites made by Lockheed Martin and reduce purchases of air-to-air and air-to-ground cruise missiles made by Lockheed Martin
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Army Aircraft  The Army would be forced to stop or reduce production of
the General Atomics Grey Eagle drone aircraft and cuts would
delay development spending on the Ground Combat Vehicle.  The Army’s aircraft procurement account, which pays for
Boeing and United Technologies helicopters, would drop to $3.8
billion from $5 billion as production would be “forced down to
minimum rates” necessary to sustain production lines, it said.  The Army’s total research and development request would
drop to $6.3 billion from $8 billion, it said.  The Pentagon’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
would cancel its  F6 satellite  demonstration program, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  