-- Petrobras Outspends Exxon Researching Next Oil Frontiers: Energy
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-08-23T20:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/petrobras-outspends-exxon-researching-next-oil-frontiers-energy.html
On a seabed off  Brazil , Petroleo
Brasileiro SA is separating water from oil as it pumps the crude
from beneath the Atlantic. No company had done that before.  The process, which takes the separation and reinjection
mechanism off oil platforms, is the first of its kind in waters
deeper than 1,000 feet and frees space so platforms can serve
more wells. It was developed by state-run producer Petrobras and
 FMC Technologies Inc. (FTI)  at a research and development center that
boasts 227 laboratories on an island off  Rio de Janeiro .  Without developing technologies like this, Petrobras will
struggle to haul in the world’s biggest discoveries this
century, trapped beneath a sub-sea layer of salt off Brazil’s
southeastern coast, including the giant Libra prospect up for
auction in October. The state-run company invested $1.13
billion, or 0.8 percent of sales, in R&D last year, the highest
rate of the world’s 17 most valuable oil producers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  spent 0.3 percent.  “We are gaining confidence day by day, investing a lot,
putting our best guys here,” Jose Roberto Fagundes, the
center’s deputy head, said in an interview from the center.
“Five years ago we had an idea, we knew there was something
different but we didn’t know exactly how risky it would be.”  Growth Key  Petrobras engineers analyze work on a tailor-made screen in
high definition at the center, which is down the road from R&D
units run by at least six other oil-related companies. Fundao
Island -- where Petrobras scientists work some 11 miles away
from Copacabana beach and the average temperature is 75 degrees
Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius) -- has become one of the world’s
richest spots for advanced study into squeezing the last drop of
oil from a well.  For Petrobras and partners such as Britain’s  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and the  Repsol Sinopec Brasil SA (REP)  joint venture, research into
Brazil’s so-called pre-salt fields may hold the key to future
production. They’re trying to end the mystery around just how
oil flows out of these off-shore carbonate reserves, which vary
from field to field and are unlike any other that have been
developed worldwide. Both BG and Repsol have said the Brazilian
pre-salt is a key pillar of their future.  Petrobras shares handed investors a 22 percent loss in U.S.
dollar terms in the past year, the worst performance in the BI
Global Integrated Oils Competitive Peers Index after Moscow-based TNK-BP Holding’s 37 percent drop. Exxon, which gained 3
percent in the same span, invested $1.04 billion in R&D last
year, spokesman Patrick McGinn said by e-mail today.  Carioca Challenge  The Carioca prospect, one of the pre-salt’s  five biggest 
discoveries, offers an example of the challenges, Fagundes said.
The companies have until Dec. 31 to declare it commercial.  Carioca’s high paraffin levels make it hard to pump crude
to the surface, as temperature changes can make it solidify. The
companies are looking at the most efficient way to keep the oil
flowing, Fagundes said. Carioca wells produce as much as 28,000
barrels a day, according to a statement from BG.  Research at the Cenpes technology center has also helped
companies deal with the uncharted geological and operating
conditions to drill horizontal wells through a layer of salt as
thick as 2,000 meters under the Atlantic seabed, at both the
Lula and Iara fields.  “Petrobras is the world leader in deep and ultra-deep
water production,” Michel Curletto, a consultant at the IFB
technological research institute in Rio, said by e-mail. The
company wants “to develop technologies that allow it to surpass
the barriers of new production frontiers,” he said.  Dinosaur Statues  In the R&D center’s main building, where white-coated staff
study crude viscosity and geological permeability, is a
courtyard with a collection of small statues of dinosaurs. The
statues stand around a pool in the middle of which is a globe
representing the world before the continents split.  Knowledge that  Africa  and  South America  were once a single
body of land is what led producers to hunt for pre-salt oil off
the coast of  Angola , where discoveries have been made and 20
exploratory wells are scheduled to be drilled next year. In
Brazil, Petrobras produces about 310,000 barrels of oil per day
in the pre-salt and plans to reach 2 billion by 2020. It’s
already the biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000 feet.  In an auditorium at Cenpes, Petrobras has set up a film
screen with five times more resolution than any sold by
television makers  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. that shows computer generated replicas of oil platforms and
their sub-sea production systems. The images are generated with
software developed by Petrobras and a Rio de Janeiro university.  The images shown on the screen, combined with a 3-D
simulator set up in an adjacent room, allows engineers,
scientists and other researchers to analyze the production
systems without interfering with operations.  Not Alone  Petrobras is not alone in its technological drive in
Brazil. By law, producers that have concessions in the country’s
top oil fields, such as the pre-salt ones, must invest 1 percent
of revenue in technology for fields under a regime known as
special participation. Other areas have lower thresholds.  Companies including FMC, Schlumberger Ltd,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , all of which are Petrobras suppliers,
have set up regional R&D centers in the same island and BG is
building its global technology headquarters there. After working
with Petrobras on the sub-sea injection system, Houston-based
FMC developed a similar project with Royal Dutch Shell Plc. in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  While the FMC-Petrobras collaboration is not for pre-salt,
the bulk of the research in Brazil is focused on the pre-salt.  “Because of the size of the pre-salt, we were able to
convince them to open their R&D centers here,” Petrobras’s
Fagundes said. “We develop the hardware for our technology with
our suppliers. We share our needs.”  ‘Very Remote’  The Brazilian producer’s R&D has led to the filing of 175
patents in the three years through Dec. 31, 2012, the company’s
press office said by e-mail. The patents range from sub-sea
pumping systems to a process to produce hydrogen from ethanol.  The novelty of the pre-salt and the physical distances
involved in extracting the underlying oil are the main
challenges faced by Petrobras, according to Ruaraidh Montgomery,
a senior analyst at oil and gas researcher  Wood Mackenzie .  “When they moved into deep waters, they were really a
pioneering company,” Montgomery said in a phone interview from
Houston. “Now we have the pre-salt, a very remote location.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  