-- Petrobras Rallies on Gasoline Price Increase Reports: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-22T14:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/petrobras-rallies-on-gasoline-price-increase-reports-rio-mover.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , the state-run crude producer, rose to the highest in more than two months
on speculation the government will raise gasoline and diesel
prices to stem losses from fuel imports.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
rose 4 percent to 18.03 reais at 11 a.m. in Sao Paulo, heading
to the highest close since June 17. The rise pares its loss this
year to 7.5 percent, less than the 16 percent drop in the
benchmark Ibovespa.  The Brazilian government, which controls Petrobras with a
majority of voting shares, has already decided to raise fuel
prices a third time this year and is discussing how and when the
increase will be carried out, newspapers  Valor Economico  and O
Estado de S. Paulo reported today, without saying where they got
the information. The increase may reach 10 percent, Correio
Braziliense columnist Vicente Nunes said.  The 19 percent slump of the Brazilian real in six months,
the worst performance of 24 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, is intensifying losses from fuel imports sold at a
discount by Petrobras to distributors as part of a policy to
keep inflation in check.  Petrobras is currently selling imported gasoline at a
discount of about 25 percent relative to international prices,
said Auro Rozenbaum, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco SA.  “The relief won’t be that big,” Rozenbaum said by phone
from  Sao Paulo . “It’s positive but far from solving the
problem. Petrobras will have to work on other fronts to solve
the financial equation for 2014.”  Petrobras expects fuel imports to rise in the second half
of the year because of scheduled maintenance at two refineries
in  Brazil  and growing demand, Jose Cosenza, the company’s head
of refining, said on an Aug. 12 conference call. Gasoline and
diesel imports will surpass the second quarter’s average of
81,000 barrels a day, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  