-- Woods Trails Stadler by Three Shots at PGA Tour Playoff Event
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/pga-tour-s-first-playoff-event-is-halted-by-rain-in-new-jersey.html
Tiger Woods  needed about 11 hours to
finish his opening round at the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s first playoff
event, where he waited out two thunderstorm delays in shooting a
4-under-par 67 that left him three shots behind leader Kevin
Stadler, who shot 64.  Stadler and Woods were both bogey-free yesterday at Liberty
National Golf Club in Jersey City,  New Jersey , where 63 of the
123 golfers in the field were unable to finish their first
rounds due to six hours of delays.  “It was a long day,” Woods said after saving par with a 6
1/2-foot putt on his final hole, the par-4 ninth.  The first round is scheduled to be completed today along
with the start of the second round. British Open winner  Phil Mickelson  was among yesterday’s scheduled afternoon starters
and, because of the delays, was only able to finish six holes.  Mickelson is tied for 41st place at 1 under, having made
two birdies to recover from a bogey on the first hole, where he
hit his tee shot into a creek.  Stadler, 33, made birdies on seven of the first 13 holes
yesterday as he seeks to continue his upward swing at the
Barclays, which rotates between a group of courses in New York
and New Jersey. Stadler, who is winless in 230 PGA Tour starts,
missed the cut for weekend play in his first four appearances at
the tournament before tying for 64th in 2011 and finishing in a
tie for 10th last year.  ‘Lousy Summer’  “I’ve had kind of a pretty lousy summer, result-wise, but
really started hitting the ball a lot better a couple weeks ago
and was looking forward to playing some golf again here
recently,” said Stadler, whose best showings since May were a
pair of 27th-place finishes. “I felt like I was heading in the
right direction, even though the results were not showing it and
finally got something out of it.”  At 7 under, Stadler is one stroke ahead of fellow American
 Ryan Palmer ,  Henrik Stenson  of  Sweden  and Camilo Villegas of
 Colombia . Villegas was 8 under yesterday before making back-to-back bogeys late in his opening round.  American  Matt Kuchar  is 5 under along with Jason Day of
 Australia .  “You can get out of your rhythm, but I think the guys out
here are pretty used to the delays and restarting,” Kuchar said
after the Barclays became the 20th PGA Tour event this year to
have some kind of delay. “It was nice for me to come out and
shoot 5 under, play some good, steady golf.”  Rain Delays  Woods, who’s won five PGA Tour events this season and leads
the FedEx Cup point standings, started his round on the 10th
hole yesterday morning and made par before thunderstorms halted
play for about 2 1/2 hours.  After returning to the course, which has views of the  New
York  City skyline and the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor,
Woods ran off three straight birdies from holes 14-16. The
storms returned as he was on the 17th hole, resulting in a
suspension of about 3 1/2 hours.  After the second stoppage, Woods parred 10 of 11 holes, the
exception being a birdie on the par-3 fourth hole after he hit a
tee shot to within eight feet of the flag.  “You could be so aggressive going into the greens, you
didn’t have to worry about anything bouncing,” said Woods, who
won FedEx Cup titles in 2007 and 2009. “A couple of those short
irons you had to worry about maybe spinning the ball back too
much, but looking at most of the scores, guys are being really
aggressive and just making a bunch of birdies.”  FedEx Lead  The top 125 players in the season-long FedEx Cup point
standings qualified for the Barclays. Woods entered the
tournament with a  766-point lead  over Kuchar in the competition
for the FedEx Cup title and its $10 million bonus.  The top 100 players on the points list following the
Barclays qualify for the  Deutsche Bank Championship  at TPC
Boston from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. After that, the top 70 move on
to the BMW Championship outside  Chicago  from Sept. 12 to 15.  The top 30 in the standings then compete for the FedEx Cup
title and the $10 million bonus at the Tour Championship in
Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  Jersey City , New Jersey at   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  