-- Philip Morris Leads Plain Packs Battle in Global Trade Arena
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a r t i n
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/philip-morris-leads-plain-packs-battle-in-global-trade-arena.html
The war between the tobacco industry
and anti-smoking forces is heating up as cigarette makers
intensify efforts to use treaties to block labeling constraints.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  has pressed the U.S. for
language that would make it tougher for countries in a proposed
Pacific Rim trade pact to require plain packaging or other
limits on company logos. Australia’s packaging law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization , and U.S. senators
from tobacco-growing states, including Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , recently warned the European Union that smoking
controls it’s considering could endanger a U.S. trade deal.  Cigarette makers defend the efforts as necessary to
safeguard the intellectual property protections embedded in
treaties. To anti-smoking forces, the tobacco lobby is working a
strategy of intimidation.  “They are in this to convince governments it’s not worth
the cost” to enact laws to reduce tobacco’s appeal, said Chris
Bostic, deputy director for policy at Action on Smoking and
Health, a Washington-based nonprofit. “It’s about chilling
countries from moving forward.”  The U.K. recently postponed instituting strict cigarette-pack mandates so it could assess Australia’s law.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership being negotiated by
Australia, the U.S., Japan, Chile and eight other nations will
be a test of sovereign states’ freedom to regulate tobacco, said
Gary Fooks, a University of Bath research fellow who has  written 
about the industry’s efforts to influence the pact. The next
round of talks is scheduled to begin tomorrow in Brunei.  Safe Harbor  Anti-smoking activists were encouraged last year when the
Obama administration wrote a draft proposal to strengthen
protections for anti-smoking regulations from challenges. It
would have created “a safe harbor” for U.S. Food and Drug
Administration tobacco rules, according to a government summary
of the draft.  The safe harbor proposal died last week after running into
opposition from lawmakers, former trade representatives and
business groups, including the Grocery Manufacturers
Association. They contended it would set a bad precedent that
could lead to other products being singled out in trade pacts.  Instead, the U.S. will ask for a clause requiring that
before a case against a tobacco regulation can be filed under
the treaty, health authorities of the countries involved must
“discuss the measure.” U.S. negotiators will also ask for a
provision affirming that tobacco control initiatives are covered
by a general exception, typical in trade agreements, that allows
countries to enact measures necessary to protect human health.  Industry’s History  “This proposal will, for the first time in a trade
agreement, address specifically the public health issues
surrounding tobacco,” U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman 
said in a statement, and won’t “create a precedent for
excluding agricultural products.”  Anti-smoking activists characterized the new proposal as a
retreat. It simply “states the obvious,” according to an Aug.
16 statement from five nonprofits, including the  American
Academy  of Pediatrics and the American Lung Association.  “It’s hard for me to see that it makes any difference at
all,” said Gregg Haifley, associate director of federal
relations at the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network.  Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat, said he
was “very disappointed” that the administration was taking a
“significant step backwards” from the safe harbor proposal.
While the substitute might “be helpful on the margins” if it
becomes part of the pact, it won’t do much to prevent challenges
to anti-smoking measures, he said.  Suing Thailand  Waxman said he urged Froman to press for a safe harbor,
saying tobacco deserves special attention because it can kill
when used as intended. “I pointed out to him that  tobacco
companies  have a history of using trade agreements to undermine
laws,” he said.  Companies including New York-based Philip Morris
International, which sells Marlboro outside the U.S., and
 British American Tobacco (BATS)  Plc, whose brands include Dunhill and
Lucky Strike, are in a global battle against moves to curtail
branding and make cigarettes unappealing.  The $756 billion industry isn’t focusing only on trade
deals.  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  in June sued Thailand in its courts
over a plan to order that health warnings cover 85 percent of a
pack cover. In the U.S., five companies successfully sued the
FDA to block a plan to require that packs to show a graphic
image of cigarettes’ effects, such as a photo of a smoke
drifting out of tracheotomy hole or chest staples on a cadaver.  Plain Packs  While the industry says it supports evidence-based
regulations that are effective in reducing harm from smoking, 
companies have made it clear they’ll go after laws such as
Australia’s, which requires cigarettes be sold in uniform drab
brown packs and limits the size of brand names.  “These policies do not meet the minimum standards that
there will be a clear benefit to public health, and at the same
time risk fueling the black market,” said Julie Soderlund,
 Philip Morris ’ vice president of communications.  Will Hill, a spokesman for British American Tobacco, said
the company would “take every action necessary to protect our
valuable brands and our right to compete as a legitimate
commercial business selling a legal product.”  The industry’s treaty strategy goes back to at least 1993,
when nine companies were invited to work together in what became
known as the Plain Pack Group. The plan was to combat “the
encroachment on the packs of ‘health-related’ information and
the possibility of the ‘generic’ pack,” according to a  letter 
from an official at Rothmans International Tobacco, now part of
British American Tobacco. The letter surfaced in litigation
between U.S. states and tobacco companies and is in a University
of California San Francisco archive.  Uruguay’s Case  The group argued that packaging mandates violated trademark
rights and treaties, documents in the archive shows.  Not everyone in the industry agreed with the tack. “We are
advised that there is no basis for any legal challenge against
State and Territorial Governments on these grounds,” according
to a memo from W.D. & H.O. Wills (Australia), a tobacco
manufacturer, that is in the archive.  While packaging restrictions in Australia and Canada were
rejected in the mid-1990’s, they’ve recently gained momentum.
Philip Morris International is challenging mandates in Uruguay,
including one that health warnings cover 80 percent of the front
and back of packs.  Helping Honduras  The company is making its case under Uruguay’s investment
treaty with Switzerland, which, like most such pacts, includes
an arbitration clause allowing companies to dispute policies
that affect their interests. Philip Morris International
subsidiaries in Switzerland and Uruguay brought the complaint.
The private charity of New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder
and majority owner of the parent of  Bloomberg News , is paying
for some of Uruguay’s defense.  The company is also using investor-state arbitration to
contest Australia’s packaging law, claiming it “virtually
eliminates Philip Morris’ branded business by expropriating its
valuable intellectual property.”  The law is being  challenged  at the WTO by Ukraine, the
 Dominican Republic , Honduras and Cuba. Philip Morris is covering
some legal costs for the Dominican Republic, which Soderlund
said is “common practice in WTO litigation,” and British
American is doing the same for Ukraine and Honduras.  The U.S. last year lost a case at the WTO when appellate
judges at the Geneva-based organization upheld a ruling that a
law banning clove cigarettes is discriminatory because it
“accords clove cigarettes less favorable treatment than that
accorded to domestic menthol-flavored cigarettes.” Indonesia,
the largest maker of clove brands, brought that case.  Photo Warnings  In Europe, the industry opposes some parts of a proposed
update to the EU’s Tobacco Products Directive. It calls for text
and photo warnings to cover as much as 75 percent of the space 
on the front and back of packs, bans promotional elements and
allows  member states  to pass plain-packaging laws.  At Philip Morris International’s annual meeting in May,
Chief Executive Officer Andre Calantzopoulos called some
elements of the EU update “frankly illogical and devoid of
scientific evidence.”  The U.S. senators who oppose it said in a May 7 letter to
Joao Vale de Almeida, the EU’s ambassador to the U.S., that the
proposed directive would impact “transatlantic trade
relations” and could weaken the EU’s ability to “credibly
address” barriers to intellectual property rights.  It “calls into question the EU’s ability to deliver on
regulatory commitments to the United States that it will have to
make under a comprehensive U.S.-E.U. trade agreement,” the
letter said. It was signed by McConnell and three of his
colleagues, Republicans Rand Paul of Kentucky and  Richard Burr 
of North Carolina and Democrat  Kay Hagan  of North Carolina.  Threaten, Bully  The industry’s goal is discourage countries from
strengthening anti-smoking measures, said Thomas J. Bollyky, a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and a former
negotiator for the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office.  “Tobacco companies are using trade and investment
agreements to threaten, bully, and bring trade disputes against
 developing countries  seeking to implement the very same
advertising and labeling restrictions that already exist in most
developed countries,” he said.  The global smoking prevalence rate among adults has been
gradually declining, to 20.6 percent in 2012 from 22.7 percent
in 2002, according to Euromonitor International.  More Smokers  At the same time, the number of smokers increased about 7
percent to at least 869 million because of  population growth ,
particularly in developing regions with relatively lax anti-smoking regulations, said Shane MacGuill, a Euromonitor tobacco
analyst in London.  Tobacco companies have been consistently profitable, even
as anti-smoking efforts have become more aggressive. “They can
weather these kinds of events,” said Thilo Wrede, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York. “They have shown in the past that
they are successful in challenging regulatory obstacles.”  Philip Morris International spent $9.8 million on lobbying
Congress and agencies in 2012 on trade and other issues,
according to disclosure records. So far this year, the company
has spent $5.1 million.  “Unfortunately the environment in which we operate has
become more challenging given the ever-growing proposals and
actions to introduce arbitrary measures,” Calantzopoulos said
at the annual meeting. “We will continue to vigorously oppose
unreasonable and irrational regulatory proposals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Martin  in New York at 
 amartin146@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka in Boston at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  