-- Philippine Peso Drops to Two-Month Low as Markets Play Catch-Up
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-08-22T09:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/philippine-peso-drops-to-two-month-low-as-markets-play-catch-up.html
The Philippine peso fell the most in
two months as stocks and bonds tumbled after local markets
reopened following floods and a holiday.  The benchmark equities gauge dropped the most since June
13, tracking declines in other Asian markets this week, on signs
the Federal Reserve will taper stimulus this year. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will assess whether the peso’s movement is
excessive and authorities will “act accordingly” to curb
volatility, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail
yesterday. Local financial markets have been shut all week.  “Markets overreact all the time but investors should see
the difference,” said Antonio Paner, executive vice president
and treasurer at  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  in Manila,
referring to the country’s fast-growing economy. “If you look
at the fundamentals, people will still see some value in the
 Philippines .”  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 44.167 per dollar, its lowest
closing rate since February 2011, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It touched 44.17 earlier, the weakest since June 21. The
currency will probably trade around 44 in the near term before
returning to the 43 level, Paner said. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, rose 15 basis points to 7 percent.  The yield on the 5.875 percent bonds due March 2032 rose 70
basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 5.25 percent, the
highest level July 10, according to Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the biggest increase since the securities were
first issued in February 2012.  Fast Growth  The $250 billion Asian economy probably expanded 6.9
percent in the  three months  through June, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before a
report due Aug. 29. Gross domestic product increased 7.8 percent
in the first quarter, outpacing  China  to become the fastest in
the region.  The Federal Reserve will probably reduce its $85 billion
monthly bond purchases in its September meeting, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  “Should peso and dollar liquidity becomes tight, which may
be unlikely given the robust growth of domestic credit and M3,
the BSP enjoys monetary flexibility to consider a more
accommodative monetary policy,” Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo
wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions yesterday. “We can
always adjust our rediscounting budget both for peso and dollar-yen to ensure the availability of liquidity should it be
necessary.”  President Benigno Aquino suspended government work on Aug.
19 and 20 as monsoon rains flooded as much as 60 percent of the
 Manila  region, killing at least 16. The central bank’s Tetangco
said any impact of the floods on prices will be “one-off,
transitory” and that reconstruction will probably offset any
impact of the calamity on the economy.  Damage to farm sector from recent storms and flooding is
estimated at 2.6 billion pesos ($59 million), Agriculture
Undersecretary Dante Delima said in a briefing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  