-- Poland’s LOT Seeks 787 Compensation From Boeing Before Year End
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-22T14:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/poland-s-lot-seeks-787-compensation-from-boeing-before-year-end.html
LOT Polish Airlines SA said it wants
to conclude talks with  Boeing Co. (BA)  this year over compensation
for losses from the three-month grounding of the 787 Dreamliner.  Talks over financial restitution commenced more than two
months ago and, if unsuccessful, the airline could sue the U.S.
manufacturer, Chief Executive Officer Sebastian Mikosz told
reporters in Warsaw today. He would not rule out taking
discounts on future plane purchases in lieu of cash.  LOT has bet heavily on the use of Dreamliners to cut costs
and help restore the struggling airline to profit, and the
global grounding of 787s over electrical faults earlier this
year put those plans in jeopardy. LOT reported daily losses of
$50,000 from the grounding when its first plane was stranded in
 Chicago  after the inaugural flight.  Since resuming operations, 787 flights for LOT have had a
“positive impact” on the airline, with the jet drawing
passengers, Mikosz said. The airline now operates five
Dreamliners, with a sixth due in March.  “We are very satisfied with the 787,” he said.  LOT, which hasn’t made a profit in six years, is trimming
routes and its fleet as part of an effort to restore its
financial health and prepare the airline for sale. The Polish
government has also eased state-ownership rules that require it
to hold a majority stake in LOT, as Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT
SA is known, to facilitate the potential disposal.  Mikosz said there is “general interest” from Asian and
Middle East carriers to expand into  Europe  through investments,
without identifying who may buy a share in LOT.  Etihad Airways PJSC, which bought a stake in  Serbia ’s
largest carrier, is in advanced talks to buy a share of LOT,
trade publication Aviation Week & Space Technology reported this
month without saying where it got the information.  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  acquired a 44 percent stake in Ceske
Aerolinie AS, the Czech flag carrier and the Croatian government
is in talks with PT  Garuda Indonesia (GIAA)  over a sale of its national
airline. Non-European carriers can only take a maximum 49
percent stake in a European airline under EU rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  