-- Porsche Home’s Green Car Reversal Opens Road to Merkel
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-08-22T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/porsche-home-s-green-car-reversal-opens-road-to-merkel.html
In April 2011, before he became
 Germany ’s first state premier from the Greens party, Winfried Kretschmann said he’d like fewer cars on the roads. Two days
later, the head of a global automaker came to his office.  “He told me his target was zero emissions,” Kretschmann,
now the prime minister of Baden-Wuerttemberg, said in the garden
of his official villa in the hills overlooking Stuttgart, the
state capital. “I told him we can reach an understanding.”  Kretschmann’s accommodation with the  auto industry  that
provides one in six jobs in his state illustrates his ability to
balance environmental values with stewardship of an economy the
size of  Sweden ’s. Former U.S. Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger 
is among those who have visited to hear how this new breed of
Green politician combines his twin goals.  Ecology and  the economy  “go hand in hand,” Kretschmann
said in the Aug. 15 interview, declining to name the auto
executive. “Sustainable policies bring about economic
prosperity and a high quality of life.”  Kretschmann’s election ended 58 years of uninterrupted rule
in Baden-Wuerttemberg by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic Union party. He is seeking to make the revolution
permanent by encouraging companies in the state to become world
pioneers in green technology, for example investing public funds
in a city mobility project with  Daimler AG. (DAI)  It’s a model he says
Merkel would do well to emulate to ensure Germany stays globally
competitive after Sept. 22 federal elections.  ‘Reconstructed Green’  “The key to the Greens’ future is the extent to which they
reconstruct from being zero-growth, anti-industry and pro tax
and spend,” Fredrik Erixon, the director of the European Centre
for International Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone.
“Kretschmann represents this reconstructed Greens party.”  Baden-Wuerttemberg, a wine-growing region fed by the River
Rhine that borders  France  to the west and  Switzerland  to the
south, is home to luxury carmakers Porsche SE and Mercedes-maker
Daimler as well as the world’s largest auto-parts maker,  Robert
Bosch GmbH .  It’s also the state where 345 renewable-energy patents were
filed between 2008 and 2012, more than anywhere else in Germany.
Enough solar panels were installed at the end of last year --
4.4 gigawatts -- to power about 1 million homes, second only to
neighboring Bavaria. At 4 percent, the state’s unemployment rate
is almost half the  German average  and less than a third that of
the 17 nation euro area.  Electric Porsche  A biology and chemistry teacher by training who grew up in
a village in the Swabian hills, Kretschmann, 65, was a self-confessed “left-wing radical” in 1968, a course he now
dismisses as “political folly,” according to  his website . Now
his mantra is “we won’t do anything that harms industry.”  One of his first visits after assuming office in May 2011
was to a Porsche plant, where he sat in an electric Boxster
model. “No longer was it a problem for a Green to climb into
that kind of car,” he said, wearing a light green polo shirt
embroidered with his initials made by  Trigema , a local company
which promotes environmentally friendly products and touts its
worker-friendly employment conditions.  Kretschmann came to power amid a surge in support for the
anti-nuclear Greens following the Fukushima disaster in  Japan .
Polls suggest it was no fluke: while backing for the Greens
nationally was cut by half since then to about 13 percent, the
party has gained in popularity in Baden-Wuerttemberg, to 28
percent.  Party Clashes  The current holder of the rotating presidency of the
Bundesrat, parliament’s upper house, Kretschmann’s approach to
policy has caused him to clash with his party on more than one
occasion. He objected to the Greens’ election platform of tax
increases, warning the leadership in a public letter in April to
avoid any move that would be detrimental to business.  The Greens rule Baden-Wuerttemberg with the  Social
Democrats , a coalition that also governed nationally from 1998
until 2005 under SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . While
Kretschmann shares his party’s official position of favoring an
alliance with the SPD after the election, he has criticized its
campaign.  With polls showing the SPD trailing the chancellor’s
Christian Democratic bloc by as many as 19 percentage points, he
broke ranks with his fellow Greens and refused to rule out an
alliance with Merkel.  “He combines pragmatism with some ideology but his
convictions are toward the center,” said Erixon. “It will take
a few years but the Greens are going to squeeze themselves away
from their embrace of the Social Democrats” and toward Merkel’s
CDU, Erixon said.  Schaeuble Criticism  The feeling isn’t necessarily mutual, however. Merkel has
lost few opportunities on the campaign trail to denounce
opposition tax plans as “poison.” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who hails from Baden-Wuerttemberg, singled out
Kretschmann’s government for criticism on Aug. 20, saying it’s
running up new debt even as the economy thrives. “There is only
one explanation,” said Schaeuble. “There’s a red-green state
government that can’t make do with the money it has.”  Baden-Wuerttemberg, which pioneered inventions including
the automobile, matches, the plastic wall plug and the zeppelin,
has thousands of small and medium-sized technology companies
that produce everything from high-insulation windows to
machinery to make flat-panel displays.  About 5 percent of gross domestic product is invested in
research and development, more than any other European region,
and is a decisive factor in its success, said Kretschmann. That
helps the “green message” to be realized by companies from
engineering to lightweight construction and the auto industry.  ‘New Thinking’  In addition, applying “completely new thinking to
mobility,” by linking pedestrians, cyclists, cars and public
transport intelligently, is key to driving down emissions in
cities that are home to half the world’s population, he said.  Baden-Wuerttemberg spends more than 50 million euros ($67
million) funding electric mobility projects, including 2.4
million euros on e-charging stations in Stuttgart used by about
400 electric Smart models of Daimler’s Car2go car-sharing
program. Kretschmann said he’s also talking to  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  about how to predict traffic jams and
thus improve mobility in the region.  Kretschmann, sitting in the shade of a copper beech tree at
the head of a table laden with biscuits and bottles of organic
fruit juice, said he’s under no illusions that “millions of
cars” will be added globally, meaning “what kind of cars we’re
building” is key.  “The industry is realizing that many young people aren’t
into the car as a status symbol anymore, they’re into mobility,
into the Internet,” he said. “Recognizing these changes is
important, and it’s Green. That’s why we’re in power here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  