-- Gilt Yield Reaches Two-Year High After Fed Minutes; Pound Falls
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-22T13:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/pound-weakens-for-second-day-versus-dollar-after-fed-minutes.html
U.K. 10-year gilt yields rose to the
highest level since August 2011 after Federal Reserve minutes
showed policy makers voiced support for slowing debt purchases
this year, damping demand for fixed-income securities.  Benchmark gilts  fell at the start of trading after
Treasuries slid yesterday when the Fed minutes showed officials
supported Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper their monthly
$85-billion debt purchases this year. The extra yield of 30-year
gilts over 10-year securities shrank for a second day. The pound
weakened after  Bank of England  policy maker  Martin Weale  said
the central bank may need to extend its 375-billion pound ($584
billion) bond-buying  program .  “The market’s open is all about the Fed minutes,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Treasury yields have
moved up significantly in the last session and that’s what’s
driving gilt yields higher.”  The U.K. 10-year yield was little changed at 2.74 percent
at 1:58 p.m. London time after climbing to 2.76 percent, the
highest level since Aug. 8, 2011. The price of the 1.75 percent
bond maturing in September 2022 was 92.345.  The Fed’s debate over when to taper its monthly bond
purchases has roiled financial markets around the world and
sparked a selloff in fixed-income assets. Gilts lost investors
4.4 percent this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg
World Bond Indexes. Treasuries fell 3.9 percent and German bonds
dropped 2.3 percent.  Fed Minutes  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said “it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,” according to the minutes of the Fed’s
July 30-31 gathering released in  Washington .  The  spread  between 30- and 10-year gilts shrank three basis
points to 92 basis points after contracting to 92 basis points,
the narrowest since December 2011. The difference was 126 basis
points as recently as July 19.  The lower yields on longer-dated gilts reflect persisting
demand from institutional investors, said  Sam Hill , U.K. fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “At some
point, the relative value between sectors will become too
compelling to avoid, but for the time being we are reluctant to
call time on the relative strength of the long-end,” he said.  Pound Weakens  The pound weakened for a second day against the dollar
after Weale said in an interview with the  Daily Telegraph  that
there may be circumstances where it “would be sensible to
undertake further asset purchases.”  Those circumstances may include further shocks in the euro
area or more turmoil in  emerging markets , he said.  Euro-area services expanded in August for the first time in
19 months, according to a report released today by London-based
Markit Economics based on a survey of  purchasing managers .  “Weale’s comments have put sterling back under some
massive pressure,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “In light of the
moves we’ve seen following the Fed minutes and in reaction to
the stronger-than-expected PMI figures in  Europe , we look for
sterling to be the underperformer today.”  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to $1.5598 after advancing to
$1.5718 yesterday, the strongest level since June 18. The U.K.
currency weakened 0.3 percent to 85.51 pence per euro.  “We would view these as corrections given recent gains
rather than anything more serious and we remain positive on the
pound,” Elsa Lignos, senior currency strategist at the Royal
Bank of Canada in London, wrote in a note to clients, in
reference to the impact of Weale’s comments.  A government report tomorrow will show U.K.  gross domestic
product  increased 0.6 percent in the second quarter, in line
with an earlier reading released on July 25, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The pound has gained 6.4 percent in the past six months,
the best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 4.3
percent and the dollar strengthened 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  