-- Premier Oil Sees Huntington-Field Gas Vent Fixed in 10 Days
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-08-22T16:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/premier-oil-sees-huntington-gas-vent-failure-fixed-within-days.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , an explorer with
operations from  Brazil  to  Vietnam , expects to fix a gas-venting
failure at the  North Sea  Huntington oilfield within about 10
days, allowing it to maintain a production target for the year.  The field, run by partner EON SE, has been ramping up
production since a failed gas compressor was fixed this year.
While the equipment was repaired, gas is still building up from
venting during calm weather, triggering alarms and halting
output, Premier Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett said.  “We expect it to be done within the next 10 days or so,”
Lockett said today in a phone interview. “When the wind
conditions are high enough, i.e. greater than 10 knots,
basically we can still produce.”  Premier said its full-year output forecast of 63,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day depends on Huntington’s
performance. The London-based company is building new projects
in Vietnam,  Indonesia  and the North Sea to raise production to
about 100,000 barrels a day in the “medium term.”  Premier today posted first-half net income of $161 million,
missing analyst estimates. Its shares  declined  2.9 percent to
346.50 pence, the biggest drop since May 23 in  London .  The earnings were “messy” and incorporated a $77 million
impairment, in part because five wells at the North Sea Balmoral
field were halted,  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mailed report.  Production Outlook  Huntington, where  Iona Energy Inc. (INA)  and Norwegian Energy Co.
AS are also partners, is now able to pump about 27,000 barrels a
day, Premier said in a statement. The company expects to raise
output at the deposit to 30,000 barrels a day in the “short
term” after the venting fault is fixed, Lockett said.  “What we do need to happen, of course, is for Huntington
to be fully up and running” by the end of September to avoid
reducing the annual production forecast, Lockett said. “There
is a very good probability of that happening.”  Premier’s operating cash flow grew 18 percent to $384.9
million in the first half from a year earlier, it said today.  The producer also operates off the Falkland Islands in the
Atlantic Ocean. With partner  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , it
plans to develop the Sea Lion project to recover a targeted 400
million barrels of oil. They are now  reviewing  production
options in an effort to maintain projected costs at about $5
billion and may pump first oil in 2018.  Hire Rig  The companies also plan to hire a rig to drill at least
three wells to explore the area further, Lockett said.  “We are in discussions with the other operators in the
Falkland Islands to bring a rig down there,” the CEO said. He
expects to share hiring costs with  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and  Borders
& Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR) , also exploring off the archipelago.  Rockhopper, which expects to make an  investment decision  on
Sea Lion toward the end of next year, said today the Falkland
Islands’ government is claiming a $296 million capital-gains tax
after the company sold 60 percent of its assets to Premier in
2012. Rockhopper has objected to the claim.  Rockhopper’s shares fell 13 percent to 120 pence, the
biggest decline in more than two years, in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  