-- Rabobank Profit Drops as Bank Takes Charge for Libor Settlement
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-22T10:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/rabobank-profit-drops-as-bank-takes-charge-for-libor-settlement.html
Rabobank Groep, the biggest Dutch
mortgage lender, reported a 14 percent decline in first-half
earnings, hurt by a provision to settle probes into the Libor
scandal and impaired real-estate prices.  First-half profit fell to 1.11 billion euros ($1.48
billion) from 1.29 billion euros a year earlier, Rabobank said
in a statement today. The provision for settlements was included
in an earnings segment called “other income,” which declined
24 percent to 944 million euros.  “Rabobank expects that certain regulators and authorities
will conclude their investigations this year,” the Utrecht-based cooperative lender said. “It is likely that an assessment
of the facts and circumstances will lead to settlements with
these regulators and authorities.”  The bank is the only Dutch contributor to the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor. Probes into collusion in
setting the Libor and Euribor benchmarks have resulted in more
than $2.5 billion in fines for  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Rabobank didn’t break out the size of the provision, saying
that “could seriously prejudice its position,” without
elaborating. The lender had previously said it received Libor-and Euribor-related subpoenas and information requests in
nations including the Netherlands, U.K., U.S. and  Japan .  The “other income” segment was also hurt by larger
impairments on land held by the bank’s real-estate unit and
lower bond prices, Rabobank said.  Sluggish Economy  Libor, a measure of the cost for banks to borrow from each
other, serves as a global benchmark for more than $300 trillion
of contracts from mortgages to  student loans .  First-half interest income was little changed at 4.46
billion euros from 4.47 billion euros, while fee and commission
income dropped 11 percent to 1.05 billion euros, Rabobank said.  Rabobank is selling assets and cutting costs to maintain
profitability and capital buffers as the contracting Dutch
economy pares demand for loans and makes it more difficult for
borrowers to repay debts.  Bad-loan provisions were little changed at 1.1 billion
euros in the first half, and are expected to remain high in the
remainder of the year, Chairman Piet Moerland said. The bank
said its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength, was
12.9 percent at the end of June.  The Dutch economy, which is in its third recession since
the financial crisis started in 2008, shrank 0.2 percent in the
second quarter. It isn’t expected to return to growth until next
year, according to the Dutch central planning bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  