-- Rand Gains, Rebounding From 4 1/2-Year Low, as Yields Increase
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-08-22T09:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/rand-gains-rebounding-from-4-1-2-year-low-as-yields-increase.html
South Africa’s rand gained,
rebounding from a 4 1/2-year low, after an unexpected jump in
Chinese manufacturing. Bond yields extended their climb to 20-month highs after meeting minutes showed the  Federal Reserve  is
moving closer to reducing stimulus.  Copper, gold and platinum rose after HSBC Holdings Plc’s
preliminary reading of  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
increased in August from an 11-month low, adding to signs the
world’s second-biggest economy is stabilizing. China is the
largest buyer of South African raw materials. Fed officials were
“comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plans to start
reducing bond buying this year should the  U.S. economy  improve,
July minutes showed.  South Africa’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 10.3652 per
dollar as of 11:08 a.m. in Johannesburg, rebounding from a 0.5
percent decline to 10.4435 earlier, the weakest level since
March 2008, and a 2.3 percent drop yesterday. Yields on
benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 climbed nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.69 percent, the
highest on a closing basis since January 2012.  The rand “had gone too far” and will “probably pull back
from here,” Vivienne Taberer, a  money manager  who helps oversee
about $14 billion in emerging-market assets at Investec Asset
Management, said by phone from  Cape Town . “The move was too
big. We’ve had relatively good European flash PMIs, we’ve had a
good number out of China.”  Euro-area services expanded in August for the first time in
19 months, led by Germany, after the 17-nation currency bloc’s
economy emerged from a record-long recession.  Metal Prices  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose as much as 1.5 percent, while lead, nickel, zinc,
tin and aluminum also advanced. Gold added as much as 0.6
percent and platinum 0.5 percent. Metals and other mining
commodities account for more than 50 percent of South Africa’s
 exports , according to government data.  The Fed’s debate over when to taper $85 billion in monthly
bond buying has roiled financial markets from Jakarta to Mumbai
to New York. Some policy makers have said the purchases, while
helping reduce unemployment, are stoking excessive risk taking
in assets such as  junk bonds  and leveraged loans. Housing and
jobs data today may add to recovery signs.  “The official line remains open-ended: paring back bond
purchases is likely to begin sometime this year,” Marc Ground
and Varushka Singh, analysts at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in a e-mailed note. “The lack of
clarification has kept anxieties around Fed tapering elevated,
adding to dollar strength against most currencies, particularly
those of  emerging markets .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  