-- Transnational Corp. Completes Payment for Nigerian Power Plant
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-08-22T17:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/transnational-corp-completes-payment-for-nigerian-power-plant.html
Transnational Corp. of Nigeria Plc 
completed payment for the $300 million Ughelli power plant, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Transcorp, which made a 25 percent deposit six months ago,
paid the remaining 75 percent yesterday, the deadline set by
Nigerian Bureau of Public Enterprises for power projects worth
more than $1.3 billion. The bureau hasn’t announced if bidders
for 10 other power projects had met the deadline. Its spokesman,
Joseph Anichebe, didn’t immediately answer calls seeking
comment.  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in power plants and letting private investors buy as much
as 70 percent of 11 distribution companies spun out of the
former state-owned utility. It’s seeking the investment to curb
power shortages in the West African nation of more than 160
million people.  “It is the beginning of an era where power becomes
constant and within reach,” Adeoye Fadeyibi, the chief
executive officer of Transcorp’s subsidiary, Transcorp Ughelli
Power Ltd., said today in the statement.  The company plans to increase the plant’s power generation
from 300 megawatts to at least 1,070 megawatts within five
years, according to the statement.  Africa Finance Corp., UBA Bank Plc, FCMB Group Plc and
 Fidelity Bank Plc (FIDELITY)  provided a $215 million debt-financing
facility to help Transcorp buy the plant that generates 8
percent of Nigeria’s current power supply, AFC said today in a
separate statement.  Transcorp announced five months ago it wanted to raise $95
million to refinance Ughelli and expand investments in oil
exploration and hotels.  The company’s stock rose 8.1 percent to 1.33 naira by the
close in Lagos, the commercial capital, the biggest gain since
June 27. The shares advanced 34 percent this year, compared with
a 30 percent increase in the Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  