-- Treasury Wine Sees Wolf Blass, Lindeman’s Spurring Europe Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-08-22T17:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/treasury-wine-sees-wolf-blass-lindeman-s-spurring-europe-growth.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) , the
world’s second-largest traded wine maker, may increase sales
this year in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , helped by its
Wolf Blass and Lindeman’s brands, according to an executive.  “From an EMEA perspective, our business is very focused on
the U.K. and Nordics” where Treasury is starting to see a
return to growth,  Andrew Carter , managing director for Europe,
Middle East and Africa, said in an interview today. “As I look
to 2014, I expect volume and value growth.”  Shares in the Melbourne-based winemaker fell to their
lowest in seven months in Sydney after the company said
yesterday in a statement that full-year earnings may be as much
as 7.6 percent below analyst estimates. Annual volume declined
3.1 percent in Europe, the Middle East and Africa last year
while revenue per case, excluding currency fluctuations, rose
2.9 percent, the company said.  The U.K. represents the majority of volume for the region,
while the Nordic countries are a “major part” of its profit,
Carter said, without elaborating.  Treasury is seeking to sell more high-priced wine, Carter
said, focusing on brands in the so-called “masstige” category,
including Wolf Blass, with prices between 6 pounds ($9.34) and
10 pounds in the U.K.  Nordics Challenging  Treasury is experiencing a “challenging” Nordic market
and taking action to combat a decline in demand for Australian
wines. Nordic consumers are choosing more European, particularly
Italian wines, and favoring sweeter, higher-alcohol and fuller-bodied labels, Carter said.  Treasury is seeking to export better-matched wines from its
selection, including variants of the Lindeman’s brand, he said.
It’s also targeting consumers in Eastern Europe and  Russia .  The Australian dollar has declined 10.5 percent this year
against the pound and 16.5 percent against the euro, sparking
concern that while profit from shipments from  Australia  overseas
may increase, winemakers may cut prices in markets including the
U.K. to spur a greater volume of sales.  “Each time it weakens it gives us more investment to build
our brands,” he said, referring to the Australian dollar.
“There is no future in trying to discount our wine brands; the
only future is around building brands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  