-- Treasury 5-Year Inflation Debt Sold at Highest Yield Since 2010
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-22T18:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/treasury-5-year-inflation-debt-sold-at-highest-yield-since-2010.html
The government’s $16 billion sale of
five-year inflation-linked notes sold at the highest yield since
2010 amid bets that the economic recovery is strong enough for
the Federal Reserve to begin withdrawing monetary stimulus.  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities  yielded 
negative 0.127 percent, highest yield since April, 2010, with
investors wary of paying a premium to guard against the threat
of rising consumer prices. The last sale, an $18 billion
offering on April 18, drew a yield of negative 1.311 percent,
the second-lowest on  record , after the securities sold at a
record negative 1.496 percent in December 2012.  “The front end of the TIPS curve is not an area where
people are super excited about after the backup in rates we’ve
seen,” said  George Goncalves , the head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers
obligated to bid at government auctions. “Investors are even
less worried about inflation as we get closer to tapering,
because there will be less money in the system.”  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the consumer
price index, in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.  ‘Difficult Times’  The TIPS sale had a 2.18  bid-to-cover  ratio, a gauge of
demand that compares the amount bid with the amount offered,
matching the demand at the previous auction this April, which
was the weakest since October 2008. The average at the previous
10 sales was 2.77.  “There are still difficult times ahead for TIPS, as there
is caution from investors in reengaging the market fully after
the big selloff we’ve seen,” said Carlos Pro, an interest-rate
strategist at primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.
“There is challenging outlook for inflation, with disinflation
still a risk in the U.S. And that backdrop combines with the
likely September taper from the Fed.”  TIPS maturing in three to five years have lost 3.6 percent
this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.
TIPS of all maturities have lost 9.4 percent in 2013, on pace
for the worst loss since they were first sold in 1997. The
broader Treasury market has fallen 3.8 percent, Merrill Lynch
data show.  Fed Buying  Inflation expectations have plummeted this year as
investors begin to price in an end to the Fed’s $85 billion
monthly bond-buying program that has swelled the Fed’s  balance
sheet  to a record $3.65 trillion. Minutes of the Fed’s last
policy meeting released yesterday showed officials are
comfortable with a plan to start reducing bond buying later this
year if the economy improves.  The central bank will start tapering in September and end
purchases in mid-2014, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists conducted Aug. 9-13.  The Federal Open Market Committee holds its next meeting on
Sept. 17-18.  The difference in yield between five-year notes and
similar-maturity TIPS, a measure of trader expectations for
inflation over the life of the debt, called the  break-even rate ,
has fallen to 1.76 percentage points, down from a high for the
year of 2.42 percentage points in March. The measure has
averaged 2.07 percent over the past year.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in July
after a 0.5 percent gain in June, according to Labor Department
figures. The advance matched the median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders , a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 38.2 percent of the securities.
The average for the previous 10 offerings was 41.1 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 8.1 percent of the
securities. The average at the past 10 sales was 8.9 percent.  Investors bid $2.89 for each dollar of the $1.345 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  