-- Rio, Anglo Could Partner BHP in Potash, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-22T07:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/rio-anglo-could-partner-bhp-in-potash-credit-suisse-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest miner, could seek talks with  Rio Tinto  Group and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  as potential partners for its $15 billion Canadian
potash project, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “A logical partner would probably be someone like a Rio
Tinto or another major miner,” Paul McTaggart, a Sydney-based
resources analyst with Credit Suisse, said today in an
interview. “You probably wouldn’t want a fertilizer player in
there because of access to production and pricing information.”  BHP, which this week approved spending of $2.6 billion at
the Jansen project, has been in talks with potential partners
over selling a stake in the operation, Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Mackenzie  told reporters this week. BHP expects Jansen to
cost as much as $15 billion to build, Deutsche Bank AG analyst
Paul Young said yesterday in a note.  “Rio may view Jansen as a viable option, depending on
price, with a stake of about 35 percent perhaps making sense,”
said McTaggart. “Other potential partners include Anglo
American, whom they’ve worked with in the past.”  Joint Ventures  Rio has a 30 percent stake in the Escondida copper mine in
 Chile , the world’s biggest, which BHP operates. Bruce Tobin, a
Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio, declined to comment on any
potential potash joint-venture with BHP. Anglo American’s media
team didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking comment
left outside of normal business hours.  BHP’s spending commitment comes less than a month after the
largest producer set off a possible price war. Russia’s OAO
Uralkali quit a marketing venture in July that controlled about
43 percent of global exports and signaled prices for the crop
nutrient may fall by as much as a quarter.  BHP’s projections for Jansen assume a shift away from the
current market dynamic and the expectation that prices will
reflect the cost of adding new supply, the company said Aug. 20
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  