-- Rockets Fired From Lebanon at Israel, Deepen Region’s Tumult
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-22T19:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/rockets-fired-from-lebanon-at-israel-deepen-region-s-tumult-1-.html
Militants in Lebanon fired four
rockets at northern Israel today, the Israeli military said,
adding to the turmoil gripping the  Middle East . No injuries were
reported.  One rocket was intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defense
system and two others landed in populated areas damaging
property, the army said in an e-mailed statement.  No one claimed responsibility for the attack, which the
military said was the first rocket barrage from Lebanon since
November 2011. The military said it did not retaliate.  “The rockets were launched by the global jihad terror
organization,” army spokesman Brigadier General Yoav Mordechai
said in the statement, which added that Israel holds the
Lebanese government and military responsible for the attack.  Lebanese President Michel Suleiman condemned the rocket
assault and ordered his security forces to find the attackers
and bring them to justice, Lebanon’s official National News
Agency said. Suleiman said the attacks violated the 2006 United
Nations agreement ending the monthlong war between  Israel  and
Lebanon’s militant Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement.  “We will act through a variety of means, to defend
ourselves and to pre-empt attacks, and we will act
responsibly,” Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in
a text message. “Anyone who will attack us, anyone who will try
to attack us, should know we will attack him.”  Launchers Found  The Lebanese army found launchers used to fire the rockets
in the Tyre area, Lebanon’s official news agency said. Tyre is
19 kilometers (12 miles) north of Israel.  “The aim of the jihadist militants is to create chaos in
the region, and provoking Israel into an attack on Lebanon, or
Hezbollah, would certainly serve that aim,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at Bar Ilan University outside
 Tel Aviv . “Israel is unlikely to retaliate unless they have a
specific operational target, such as a rocket squad.”  The UN peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon, known as
UNIFIL, said in a statement that it sent a helicopter to
investigate the reports of rocket fire and urged both sides’
armies to “exercise restraint” to “prevent an escalation.”  Tumultuous Times  The flare-up along the border comes at a time of upheaval
in the region.  Egypt  is reeling from the violent aftermath of
President Mohamed Mursi’s ouster and more than 100,000 have been
killed in  Syria ’s civil war, according to UN estimates.
Yesterday, the Syrian opposition said in an unconfirmed report
that more than 1,300 were killed in a chemical attack near
Damascus.  The Israel-Lebanon border has been tense though largely
quiet since Israel warred with Hezbollah. Militants have fired
rockets from Lebanon toward Israel multiple times since the
conflict, without any of the incidents developing into a major
skirmish.  Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility for any of the
attacks since the war, and the military has attributed them to
Palestinian groups and others linked to al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  