-- Roger Federer-Rafael Nadal Quarterfinal Set in U.S. Open Draw
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-22T17:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/roger-federer-rafael-nadal-quarterfinal-set-in-u-s-open-draw.html
Roger Federer  could face  Rafael Nadal  in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open, with defending-champion  Andy Murray  scheduled to face top-seeded Novak Djokovic
one round later.  The draws for the tennis season’s final Grand Slam event
were announced today in Flushing Meadows, New York. Defending
women’s champion Serena Williams could face 20-year-old American
Sloane Stephens in the fourth round, a rematch of their
quarterfinal at the Australian Open won by Stephens.  Djokovic, of  Serbia , and Murray, of Britain, are the last
two men to win the U.S. Open. The two 26-year-olds have met in
the finals of three of the previous four Grand Slam tournaments,
including last year in New York.  “Coming into the  U.S. Open  last year I had never won a
Grand Slam, I didn’t know if I was ever going to win one,”
Murray said. “Getting that win off my shoulders at the U.S.
Open was huge.”  This is the second consecutive Grand Slam in which Federer,
a five-time champion in New York, and Nadal, the 2010 champion,
have been dawn to meet in the quarterfinals. At Wimbledon,
Federer lost in the second round to Sergiy Stakhovsky of
Ukraine, then ranked No. 116 in the world, while Nadal fell in
the first round to No. 135 Steve Darcis of Belgium. Federer’s
loss snapped a record streak of 36 consecutive Grand Slam
quarterfinal appearances.  Sisters Meet  Serena Williams , the women’s top seed, opens against 2010
French Open champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy.  Venus Williams , a two-time champion now ranked No. 60 on the WTA tour,
will face 12th-seeded Kirsten Flipkens of Belgium in the first
round. The Williams sisters would meet in the quarterfinals
should they both win their first four matches.  Stephens upset Serena Williams 3-6, 7-5, 6-4, in the
quarterfinals of the Australian Open this year, and Stephens
later accused Williams of being disrespectful. Stephens, the No.
15 seed, could face Jamie Hampton, the third highest-seeded
American, in the third round.  Djokovic will face Ricardas Berankis of  Lithuania  in the
first round, while Nadal will face 21-year-old American Ryan
Harrison, who gained entry into the tournament as a wild card.  Djokovic is the betting favorite at 7-4 to win his second
U.S. Open, according to online sportsbook Bovada.lv, followed by
Nadal at 5-2 and Murray at 13-4. Federer is fifth at 12-1. The
four men have won 33 of the past 34 Grand Slam titles.  Serena Williams, a four-time champion, is the women’s title
pick at 10-13. Second-seeded Victoria Azarenka is next at 7-2.
No other women have odds better than 20-1.  The tournament is scheduled to begin Aug. 26 at the
National Tennis Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  