-- RSM Tenon Appoints Administrators as Baker Tilly Talks Collapse
-- B y   R a c h e l   S a v a g e
-- 2013-08-22T14:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/rsm-tenon-appoints-administrators-as-baker-tilly-talks-collapse.html
RSM Tenon Group Plc (TNO) , the U.K.’s
seventh-largest accounting and business advisory company, went
into administration after takeover talks with Baker Tilly UK
Holdings Ltd. fell apart and a key creditor said it wouldn’t
relax lending terms.  Deloitte LLP was named administrator, and Baker Tilly
agreed to buy the company’s trading units, which continue to
operate normally, RSM Tenon said in a statement today. The sale
is expected to be completed within two weeks, it said.  RSM Tenon, which had net borrowings of 80.4 million pounds
($125.2 million) at the end of last year, said the terms of the
sale mean creditor  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  won’t recover its
secured debt in full.  “This transaction allows for the ongoing success of RSM
Tenon’s profitable trading businesses, free from the burden of
the group’s historic debt obligations,” Baker Tilly, which
provides accounting and business services, said in a separate
statement.  Administrators were called in after Lloyds told RSM Tenon
it wouldn’t waive the London-based company’s banking covenants
if it breached the terms, RSM Tenon said.  Lloyds, the U.K’s largest mortgage lender, is providing
financial backing for the acquisition of RSM Tenon’s trading
units, London-based Baker Tilly said.  “We have supported the company for many months while it
considered its options,” Lloyds said in a statement today.  Shares Suspended  RSM Tenon’s shares have been suspended from trading in
 London  after falling 53 percent since July 25, when Baker Tilly
said it was considering a bid for the company. RSM Tenon said
Aug. 16 in an update on the takeover talks that minimal or no
value would accrue to shareholders because of the firm’s debt.  Chief Executive Officer Andy Raynor and Chairman Bob Morton
left in January 2012. The company reported the next month it
reduced its 2010 pretax profit by 12.1 million pounds because of
accounting errors.  RSM Tenon  reported  a net loss of 88.5 million pounds last
year after the acquisition of competitor RSM Bentley Jennison
Ltd. for 76.3 million pounds in December 2009 failed to prevent
net income from declining for three straight years.  Matt Smith, Nick Edwards and Clare Boardman of Deloitte
have been appointed as RSM Tenon’s joint administrators.  RSM Tenon employs about 2,300 staff in 35 offices. Baker
Tilly has about 1,600 workers in 26 offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Savage in London at 
 rsavage10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  