-- Ruble Snaps Three Days of Losses as Minister Talks Up Stability
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-22T15:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ruble-snaps-three-days-of-losses-as-minister-talks-up-stability.html
The  ruble  snapped three days of
declines against the central bank’s target basket after
officials including Russia’s finance minister said the currency
was stable.  The ruble strengthened 0.1 percent to 38.0854 against Bank
Rossii’s dollar-euro basket, erasing a loss of 0.2 percent, by 6
p.m. in Moscow, when the central bank stops its market
operations. The Russian currency was little changed at 33.1090
versus the dollar and gained 0.2 percent to the euro to 44.1965.  There’s no “significant” depreciation of the Russian
currency, which is “relatively stable,” Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters today in Rostov-on-Don. The currency is
“firm enough and stable,” Sergei Shvetsov, a Bank Rossii first
deputy chairman, said in Moscow, citing the ruble’s performance
against a basket of 18 currencies.  Bank Rossii spent the equivalent of 379 billion rubles ($11
billion) propping up the currency since May 29, a week after
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments on
scaling back stimulus sparked a rout in emerging-market assets.
Russian policy makers are shifting to an inflation-targeting
regime away from focusing on the  exchange rate  and are seeking a
free-floating currency by 2015.  The Russian central bank manages the currency as it trades
in a floating, seven ruble-wide corridor against the dollar-euro
basket. It has raised the corridor as its interventions
accumulate, lifting the band to 32.05-39.05 rubles versus the
basket from 31.65-38.65 in the past two months.  Free Float  “The ruble is not weakening,” Shvetsov said. “It’s
fluctuating as we move toward a free float.”  The ruble is the 16th best-performing currency against the
dollar in the past 12 months with a 3.7 percent decline among 31
expanded major currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There are currencies that have weakened against the
dollar in the last year, and there are those that have
strengthened,” Shvetsov said. “The ruble is somewhere in the
middle.”  The Finance Ministry plans to spend 30 billion to 50
billion rubles purchasing currency on the open market for its
national wealth funds before the end of the year, Siluanov said.  Previous estimates of the ministry’s purchases were about
$50 million per day, while Siluanov’s comments imply no more
than $15 million to $20 million per day, according to Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for  Russia  at Bank of America Corp.  “The number is much smaller than earlier estimates,” he
said by e-mail. “We view the statement as marginally positive
for the ruble.”  The yield on government ruble debt due February 2027 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8 percent, the
highest on a closing basis since June 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  