-- Russian Stocks Snap Two-Day Drop as Metals Rise on Chinese PMI
-- B y   V a l e r i y a   I v a s h c h e n k o
-- 2013-08-22T10:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/russian-stocks-snap-two-day-drop-as-metals-rise-on-chinese-pmi.html
Russian stocks  snapped a two-day
retreat as steelmakers rallied after a Chinese manufacturing
index unexpectedly expanded.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 1 percent to 1,390.12 rubles by 2:20
p.m. in Moscow. Steelmaker OAO Severstal climbed 2.2 percent.
OAO Novolipetsk Steel rose 2.7 percent to 52.27 rubles, while
its London-traded stock advanced 2.3 percent to $15.77. The
volume of shares traded on the Micex was 17 percent below the
30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Metal companies led gains on Russia’s benchmark stock gauge
as prices climbed after the Chinese economy showed signs of
stabilization. The preliminary reading of 50.1 for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics topped a 48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. A number above 50 indicates an expansion.  “Any pick-up in domestic or international demand,
especially in  China , is likely to set a positive  market
sentiment ,” Aleksei Belkin, a chief investment officer at
Kapital Asset Management LLC in Moscow, said by phone. Any
improvement in the Chinese economy is “positive for Russia in
terms of commodity demand,” he said.  Companies on the Micex trade at 5.2 times average 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 9.8 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  The Micex erased a decline of as much as 0.6 percent at the
start of trading today. U.S. Federal Reserve officials were
“comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plans to start
reducing bond buying this year should the  U.S. economy  improve,
July meeting minutes showed.  “Markets yesterday received clarity of the ‘‘wrong kind’’’
from the Fed, BCS Financial Group said in a note to investors
today.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity gauge lost 0.6 percent to
91.91 yesterday. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest
exchange-traded fund dedicated to Russian equities, dropped 1.1
percent to $26.09. The  RTS volatility index , which measures
expected swings in the  stock futures , retreated 2.3 percent
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Valeriya Ivashchenko in London at 
 vivashchenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  