-- San Diego Mayor to Resign, Television Stations Report
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-22T16:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/san-diego-mayor-to-resign-television-stations-report.html
San Diego Mayor Bob Filner will
resign after less than nine months as part of a settlement of
sexual-harassment claims from his former spokeswoman, two
television stations reported.  The deal with Filner, 70, the first Democrat to lead the
eighth-largest city since 1992, will go before the City Council
tomorrow, City Attorney Jan Goldsmith  told  reporters yesterday
outside a mediation session. Goldsmith didn’t say whether the
deal required Filner to resign.  “Any rumors you hear about this proposal, you can deem to
be untrue, because the people standing here are the ones who
know about it,” Goldsmith told reporters, accompanied by
Filner’s lawyers and several city officials. “We will maintain
the confidentiality of the mediation.”  Television stations KNSD and KGTV  reported  that the
settlement will require Filner to leave office once it’s
approved. The stations cited several unnamed sources. All nine
City Council members have publicly called on Filner to resign.  Filner has resisted pressure to step down after more than a
dozen women, including a retired rear admiral, a university dean
and a great-grandmother, made accusations that included groping,
headlocks and inappropriate comments. He took a two-week hiatus
to receive counseling.  Widespread Condemnation  The entire City Council and  California ’s Democratic U.S.
Senators Dianne Feinstein and  Barbara Boxer  have called for
Filner to quit. The  Democratic National Committee  may vote this
week on a resolution demanding his resignation. Chairwoman
 Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a U.S. representative from  Florida ,
told him last month he should resign.  The mayor has apologized for offending women, though he
said that his behavior fell short of sexual harassment.  Yesterday’s mediation between the mayor’s lawyers and
 Gloria Allred , attorney for Irene McCormack Jackson, Filner’s
former communications director, began this week and were led by
a retired federal judge. Also present were other city officials,
including council President Todd Gloria, 35, a Democrat who
would become acting mayor if Filner leaves office.  Goldsmith had no comment beyond his statement to reporters,
spokesman Mike Giorgino said by e-mail. Allred also declined to
answer questions until a news conference at her offices in  Los
Angeles  at 1 p.m. local time.  Filner was confronted with the allegations July 11, when
three former supporters met with reporters to say the mayor had
made unwanted advances and inappropriate comments to women. By
Aug. 21, 18 women had stepped forward with similar claims.
McCormack Jackson said Filner asked her to come to work without
wearing underwear and held her in a headlock. She sued Filner
and the city July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  