-- San Diego Mayor in Proposed Harassment Deal, Paper Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/san-diego-mayor-in-proposed-harassment-deal-paper-says.html
San Diego Mayor Bob Filner, the
first Democrat to lead the eighth-largest U.S. city since 1992,
agreed to a proposal to resolve a sexual-harassment lawsuit
brought against him by a former spokeswoman, U-T San Diego said.  The City Council will review the proposal tomorrow, the
newspaper said, citing City Attorney Jan Goldsmith. He said all
parties to the accord have agreed not to disclose any details
until after the council meeting, according to KNSD-TV’s website.  Filner, 70, has resisted pressure to step down after more
than a dozen women, including a retired rear admiral, a
university dean and a great-grandmother, made accusations that
included groping, using headlocks and making inappropriate
comments. He took a two-week hiatus to receive counseling.  The entire City Council and  California ’s Democratic U.S.
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer have called for
Filner to quit. The Democratic National Committee may vote this
week on a resolution demanding his resignation. Chairwoman
Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a U.S. representative from  Florida ,
told him last month he should resign.  Goldsmith appeared yesterday with other city officials
following a mediation session to announce that a proposed
resolution had been reached. He said there would be no mediation
today, NBC News affiliate KNSD said.  Defiant Apology  The mayor has apologized for “offending” women, though he
said that his behavior fell short of sexual harassment.  The mediation between the mayor’s lawyers and Gloria Allred, attorney for Irene McCormack Jackson, Filner’s former
communications director, began this week and were led by a
retired federal judge. Also present were other city officials,
including council President Todd Gloria, 35, a Democrat who
would become acting mayor if Filner leaves office.  Neither Goldsmith nor Allred were available to comment
yesterday after normal business hours.  Filner was confronted publicly with the allegations July
11, when three former supporters met with reporters to say the
mayor had made unwanted advances and inappropriate comments to
women. Several women later stepped forward with similar claims,
rising to 18 women as of Aug. 21. McCormack Jackson said Filner
asked her to come to work without wearing underwear and held her
in a headlock and sued Filner and the city July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  