-- San Diego Mayor Will Resign Over Harassment, Reports Say
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-22T21:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/san-diego-mayor-will-resign-over-harassment-reports-say.html
San Diego Mayor Bob Filner will
resign after less than nine months in office as part of a
settlement of sexual-harassment claims made by his former
spokeswoman, two television stations reported.  The deal with Filner, 70, the first Democrat to lead the
eighth-largest U.S. city since 1992, will be presented to the
City Council tomorrow, City Attorney Jan Goldsmith  told 
reporters yesterday following a mediation session. Goldsmith
didn’t say whether the deal required Filner to resign.  “Any rumors you hear about this proposal, you can deem to
be untrue, because the people standing here are the ones who
know about it,” said Goldsmith, who was accompanied by Filner’s
lawyers and several city officials. “We will maintain the
confidentiality of the mediation.”  Local television stations KNSD and KGTV  reported  that the
settlement will require Filner to leave office once it’s
approved. The stations cited several people they didn’t
identify. Filner was seen in his office yesterday and was
observed placing packing boxes in a vehicle driven by a member
of his security detail, the Los Angeles Times said.  Filner returned to work at city hall yesterday, James L.
Payne, one of his lawyers, said today in a statement. Payne said
the mayor and the city reached a “tentative agreement” after
three days of mediation before Lawrence Irving, a retired judge.
He said he couldn’t make statements about the confidential deal.  No Deal  Gloria Allred , a lawyer for Irene McCormack Jackson, the
former Filner communications director who sued the mayor and the
city, said the agreement “may contain terms which we and the
taxpayers would find abhorrent” in a news briefing today.  “We have no settlement of our lawsuit at this time,”
Allred told reporters in her Los Angeles office, when asked if
she would accept a deal that involved taxpayer money being paid
to her client on Filner’s behalf. “We did not approve any so-called deal between those two defendants.”  McCormack Jackson sued July 22, claiming Filner asked her
to come to work without wearing underwear and held her in a
headlock. Allred said Filner’s resignation wouldn’t affect the
status of the lawsuit.  “Justice requires the mayor to resign,” she said. If the
council provides funds to pay a settlement with her client, she
said, “the city is not siding with the victim, the city is
siding with the wrongdoer -- the sexual harasser.”  She said the council should reject the agreement if it
calls for the city to pay any of Filner’s legal bills.  ‘Parting Gift’  “His parting gift should be ’good riddance’ instead of a
handout,” Allred said.  Filner has resisted pressure to step down after more than a
dozen women, including a retired rear admiral, a university dean
and a great-grandmother, made accusations that included groping,
headlocks and inappropriate comments. He took a two-week hiatus
to receive counseling this month.  The entire City Council and  California ’s Democratic U.S.
Senators Dianne Feinstein and  Barbara Boxer  have called for
Filner to quit. The  Democratic National Committee  may vote this
week on a resolution demanding his resignation. Chairwoman
 Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a U.S. representative from  Florida ,
told him last month he should resign.  The mayor has apologized for offending women, though he
said that his behavior fell short of sexual harassment.  Filner was confronted with the allegations July 11, when
three former supporters met with reporters to say the mayor had
made unwanted advances and inappropriate comments to women. By
Aug. 21, 18 women had stepped forward with similar claims.  A drive to force Filner to submit to a recall election
began Aug. 18 and organizers say at least 10,000 petitions are
being circulated among voters in the city of about 1.3 million
residents. Recall backers need almost 102,000 voter signatures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  