-- Scoring Obama’s College Scorecard
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-22T22:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/scoring-obama-s-college-scorecard.html
The last thing the U.S. higher
education system needs, as any bewildered high-school parent
will attest, is another set of rankings. So in that sense
President  Barack Obama ’s  proposal  to help curb the cost of
higher education with a new “college scorecard” is
unfortunate.  But let’s not allow the distracting nomenclature stand in
the way of what is essentially a thoughtful effort to address
the causes of education inflation.  The expense of attending a public university rose  46
percent  in real terms from 2000 through 2010, while average
incomes stagnated. After months of fighting over the precise
 interest rate  on federal  student loans , it’s refreshing to see
the government finally focus on the underlying problem of costs.  Obama’s basic approach -- using the $150 billion the
federal government provides annually in student financial aid to
encourage more states and schools to embrace efficiency -- is
sound. It’s also reasonable to rank colleges and universities
based on criteria such as affordability, graduation rates and
alumni earnings. These metrics are supposed to be in force by
2015, and Obama wants them to guide federal spending by 2018.  But rankings are tricky things: As the president himself
 noted , schools already seek to game the scoring system published
by U.S. News & World Report. There’s a risk that schools will
similarly shift their spending and policies to maximize their
rankings, rather than maximizing the benefit to students.
There’s also the risk of wasting precious time arguing with
schools, students and states over how to build the ranking
system, rather than focusing on reducing costs.  There’s a better and quicker way to proceed -- in fact, the
Obama administration has already proposed it. In its 2014 budget
request this spring, the White House asked Congress for  $1
billion  to fund a “Race to the Top” initiative for higher
education, similar to the program of the same name for primary
and secondary education as part of the 2009 stimulus package.  The Race to the Top program allows the federal government
to sidestep the contentious and protracted process of
determining exactly how to define and measure each school’s
progress. Instead, it would delegate that work to the states, in
return for extra federal funding for those that show results.  That proposal remains part of the package the president
released today. It risks being lost in a flurry of other ideas,
including the new rankings, a “Datapalooza” of new information
for students, a $260 million fund to test innovative approaches
to saving money, a $500 million fund to promote accelerated
degrees, and regulatory waivers for “experimental sites.” And
those are just the measures aimed at controlling costs.  It’s an impressive range of ideas. But initiatives with
many moving and overlapping parts can be hard to manage. It
would be a shame if none of these ideas came to fruition simply
because they were part of a larger reform package that Congress
rejected or, more likely, failed to take up.  Speaking of Congress: The White House said it will
challenge college leaders, states, philanthropists and the
private sector to improve the value of higher education. That’s
fine, but in the meantime, it should challenge its friends down
the street -- the ones who control the purse strings. Until
then, it’s unclear how much the Obama administration can
accomplish on its own.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 