-- Sharp Said to Delay Share Sale on Growth Concerns
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-08-22T06:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/sharp-said-to-delay-share-sale-on-growth-concerns.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  will delay a plan to
raise about 100 billion yen ($1 billion) from public and private
share sales because of concern with the company’s growth
prospects, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The supplier of screens to Apple Inc. is postponing the
plan by about two months until November, one of the people said,
asking not to be identified because the matter is private. The
Osaka-based company needs more time to develop its growth
strategy, the person said.  Competition in liquid-crystal displays and flat-panel TVs
drove Sharp to back-to-back losses totaling 921 billion yen in
the past two financial years, during which the ratio of  equity
to total assets  fell to 6 percent from 35.6 percent. The 100-year-old company has previously raised funds selling minority
stakes to Samsung Electronics Co. and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   “In order to attract investors, Sharp needs to have a
growth story to tell, preferably for a period or three years or
more,” said Junya Ayada, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Co. in
Tokyo.  Sharp had planned to raise about 100 billion yen through a
share sale to  investors  in September, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month.  Makita Corp. (6586)  and  Lixil Group
Corp. (5938)  may buy stakes worth 10 billion yen each, one of the
people said.  Sharp is considering ways to raise capital, including a
public offering and third-party allocation of shares, while no
decisions have been made, it said in an Aug. 1 filing.  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to
comment today on any potential public offering.  Equity Sales  Shares of Sharp fell 0.8 percent to 397 yen in  Tokyo 
trading. The shares have  climbed  31 percent so far this year,
while  Japan ’s benchmark Topix index has gained 30 percent.  Companies have raised more than $32 billion in share sales
in Japan this year, compared with $23 billion for all of last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dentsu Inc., the Japanese advertising company that bought
U.K.’s Aegis Group Plc. in March, raised $1.2 billion in a July
offering. Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. and  Olympus Corp. (7733)  are
also among the companies that raised funds through share sales
this year, the data show.  Operating Loss  Earlier this month, Sharp reported a  net loss  of 18 billion
yen in the three months ended June, narrower than the 138
billion-yen loss a year earlier. The maker of screens for the
iPhone 5 and iPad was projected to post a loss of 24 billion yen,
according to the median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, totaled 3 billion yen for the quarter,
compared with a loss of 94 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 33 percent to 608 billion yen.  The operating loss at  the LCD unit  narrowed to 9.5 billion
yen during the quarter from a loss of 63.5 billion yen a year
earlier, according to the company.  The audio-visual and telecommunications unit, which sells
TVs and mobile phones, also narrowed its loss, while the solar-panel division turned profitable during the quarter, Sharp said
Aug. 1.  Sharp has 200 billion yen of convertible  bonds maturing 
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its debt was
cut to  junk  by Fitch Ratings Ltd. and  Standard & Poor’s  last
year.  The company is forecasting net income of 5 billion yen for
the year to March 2014, its first annual profit in three years,
after job cuts. Sharp sold a stake in its largest LCD plant to
Taiwanese billionaire Terry Gou last year to boost sales through
his Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s biggest contract
manufacturer of electronics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  