-- Slovenia to Present More Budget Cuts as Yields Advance
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-08-22T13:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/slovenia-to-present-more-budget-cuts-as-yields-advance.html
Slovenia will prepare a new set of
budget cuts by the end of next month to narrow the European
Union’s widest fiscal gap, Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said
as yields on the nation’s debt rose to a two-month high.  The government will present the package by Sept. 25,
Bratusek said today in the capital, Ljubljana. The deficit,
which the government forecasts at 7.9 percent this year compared
with 4 percent in 2012, will widen mostly because of a bank
rescue estimated at 1.2 billion euro ($1.6 billion), she said.  “The measures won’t be popular,” Bratusek told reporters.
“We don’t know how much exactly will be needed for the banks
and we don’t know how much we’ll save with the new package.”  Slovenia is delaying a fix of its banking industry planned
for June with the transfer of bad loans to a state agency and
the recapitalization of the banks that pushed the euro-region
nation to the brink of a bailout. The rescue’s cost may rise,
according to the central bank, which is awaiting the results of
stress tests and a review of asset quality at 10 lenders.  The yield on Slovenia’s benchmark bonds due 2022 advanced
3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.823 percent at
2:37 p.m. in Ljubljana, the highest level since June 26, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It surged to a record 7.52 percent
on June 24.  The Adriatic nation wants to sell state assets to narrow
the budget shortfall, with Telekom Slovenije d.d., the former
phone monopoly, and the second-biggest bank, Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d., among 15 companies to be sold off. The government
will probably hire an outside adviser to manage state-owned
enterprises to avoid political meddling, Bratusek said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  