-- South Africa Carmaker Talks Resume on Fourth Strike Day
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-08-22T06:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/south-africa-carmaker-talks-resume-on-fourth-strike-day.html
South African workers at carmakers
including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  will strike for a fourth day today while
employers reopen wage talks with union leaders.  The National Union of Metalworkers of  South Africa  received
a request from the automakers to resume negotiations, the union
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The walkout will
continue while talks take place and Numsa will discuss the
outcome with workers on Aug. 23, it said.  “The strike continues,” Casto Ngobese, national spokesman
for Numsa, said by phone today. “The union will be meeting with
company representatives this afternoon to resume negotiations.
That offer will be taken to members tomorrow.”  About 30,000 workers are striking at the country’s seven
main carmakers and two medium- and heavy-vehicle assemblers in
 Pretoria , Durban,  Port Elizabeth  and East London, according to
the  union . The boycott is costing the automotive industry as
much as 700 million rand ($68.4 million) per day, the National
Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South  Africa  said on
Aug. 16.  “We are looking for progress” at the meeting between the
industry and the union, Naamsa spokesman Thapelo Molapo said by
phone yesterday. He declined to comment on what the carmakers
would offer to end the strike.  Initial Proposal  Employer representatives reverted to an initial proposal of
an 8 percent wage increase for the first contract year after an
inconclusive meeting on Aug. 19, Mphumzi Maqungo, treasurer of
the Numsa, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The union, with 323,000 members across a range of
industries in Africa’s biggest economy, is seeking a 14 percent
annual increase in auto-worker wages, improved medical benefits
and shift flexibility.  The car industry accounts for 7 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product, according to  Department of Trade and
Industry  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  