-- Spurs Near Sale of Bale to Real for $146 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-22T08:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/spurs-near-sale-of-bale-to-real-for-146-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale on Brink  Tottenham Hotspur is on the brink of selling Gareth Bale to
Real  Madrid  for a world-record transfer fee of 94 million pounds
($146 million), the  Daily Mail  reported.  Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy  held negotiations yesterday and
wants Fabio Coentrao’s proposed move to Tottenham to remain
separate from Bale’s transfer, while Real wants to use the left-back as a makeweight in the deal, the newspaper reported.  Baldini Discusses Deal  An agreement for Bale’s transfer moved closer after Franco Baldini, Spurs’ sporting director, traveled to Madrid last night
to seek a deal, the  Guardian reported .  Talks will now center on whether there will be a player
exchange included, possibly Coentrao, or whether it will be a
straight cash transaction, the newspaper added.  Benzema Bid  Arsenal contacted Real Madrid about signing Karim Benzema
and a deal for the France striker is feasible, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The Gunners may succeed with a 40 million pound-offer as
the Spanish club seeks to recoup some of the cost of the
proposed signing of Bale from Tottenham, the newspaper said.  Rooney Replacement  Manchester United  is open to selling  Wayne Rooney  if the
Red Devils can find a replacement for the England striker, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Chelsea intends to make a third bid of about 30 million
pounds for Rooney before the transfer window shuts on Sept. 2,
according to the newspaper.  Atletico’s Asking Price  Manchester City will need to pay 5 million euros ($6.6
million) to sign Atletico Madrid center-half  Martin Demichelis ,
the  Guardian reported .  City, which currently has just one fit senior central
defender, values the 32-year-old Argentine at 3 million euros,
the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  