-- Standard Chartered Sells Notes Linked to New World Development
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-22T08:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/standard-chartered-sells-notes-linked-to-new-world-development.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  sold the
first structured notes in three years tied to the debt of  New
World Development Co. (17) , the Hong Kong builder controlled by
billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung .  The bank raised $21.5 million from five deals linked to the
company’s Sherson Ltd. subsidiary since July 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-year notes pay a coupon of
1.5 percent to 2 percent. Valerie Tay, a spokeswoman for
Standard Chartered in Singapore, declined to comment on the
notes.  New World, which focuses on selling more affordable
properties to local buyers, is set to outperform rivals as the
government seeks to cool the world’s most expensive housing
market, according to Adrian Ngan, an analyst at Citic Securities
International in Hong Kong. Measures to curb home prices mainly
affect higher-value residential properties developed by rivals
such as  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , he said.  “Although we are generally cautious towards  Hong Kong ’s
residential property market, New World’s projects on hand are
primarily catering for first-time end-users,” said Ngan.
“Therefore, the company should be able to achieve better
property sales than its peers who are focusing more on high-end
residential units.”  Since taking over as Hong Kong’s chief executive last July,
Leung Chun-ying has imposed extra taxes on non-resident home
buyers, doubled the stamp duty on property transactions, and
raised the minimum deposit required for a mortgage.  Cooling Measures  The tighter regulations pushed property transactions in the
city to a two-decade low in the second quarter, easing  prices 
that have more than doubled since early 2009 as a result of
wealthy mainland Chinese buyers, near record-low  interest rates 
and a lack of new supply.  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the bond market. Buyers
of the securities, which include private banks and wealthy
individuals, typically suffer losses if the issuing bank or the
linked entity defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  