-- Stifel Planning to Close Canada Offices With About 70 Workers
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-08-22T13:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/stifel-said-to-plan-shutting-canada-offices-with-70-employees.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the
brokerage that bought boutique investment bank KBW Inc., said
it’s closing its Canadian operations.  The move affects about 70 employees in Toronto and Calgary,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the plan, who
asked not to be identified because the number of jobs hasn’t
been made public.  The firm notified its workers of the closings yesterday,
and will begin shutting the offices tomorrow, St. Louis-based
Stifel said in a regulatory filing today. The brokerage’s
operations in Canada generated 1.2 percent of overall net
revenue, or $18.8 million, last year, according to the filing.  A downturn in Canada’s mining and energy industries is
pressuring financial firms that reap fees from selling stocks.
The number of employees at securities firms in  Canada  fell in
the first quarter to the lowest level since 2006, according to
Investment Industry Association of Canada.  Stifel generated $4.19 million in revenue from Canada in
three months ended June 30, less than 1 percent of the $498.7
million for the entire company, according to its latest
quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company has been cutting staff after completing its takeover
of KBW in February.  Haywood Securities Inc., a Vancouver-based brokerage, cut
20 jobs, or about 7 percent of its workforce, earlier this month
amid a slump in natural resources, the company’s president said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  