-- Subprime Squeezed as Auto-Lender Costs Increase: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-08-22T15:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/subprime-squeezed-as-auto-lender-costs-increase-credit-markets.html
Borrowing costs are rising for
subprime auto lenders in the asset-backed bond market, squeezing
profit margins and pressuring firms to make even riskier loans.  A  General Motors Co. (GM)  unit that makes car loans to people
with blemished or limited credit sold top-rated securities
backed by the debt to yield 45 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate on Aug. 7, almost double the spread it paid
on similar notes in April, according to a person with knowledge
of the transactions. American Credit Acceptance Corp., the
Spartanburg, South Carolina-based buyer of “deep subprime”
loans, paid 225 basis points over benchmarks to sell A rated
debt on July 31, up from 165 in March.  Subprime lenders lured into the market by low financing
costs during the past three years now face being pushed out as
rates reverse, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Funding
costs are  climbing  as the  Federal Reserve  considers reducing $85
billion of monthly bond purchases that have steered investors to
riskier, higher-yielding debt.  “The smaller guys are more dependent on lower financing
costs than top-tier issuers,” said James Grady, a managing
director at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management in New York.
“They have less of a cushion.”  Subprime Expansion  Lenders owned by private-equity firms from Blackstone Group
LP to Perella Weinberg Partners LP have leapt into the subprime
auto-financing business to take advantage of annual profit
margins that Moody’s estimated at 12 percent in a July 2012
report. Lenders have loosened terms by extending credit to
people with lower credit scores, leading to higher risk of
default if the economy sours.  Total sales of securities linked to subprime  car loans  have
surged 24.4 percent to $14.7 billion in 2013 from a year
earlier, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Issuance has climbed
from $2.4 billion in 2009 and may approach the $20.9 billion
sold in 2007, Barclays Plc data show.  GM Financial has issued $4 billion of asset-backed bonds
this year, up from $3.3 billion during the same period in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm, formerly known as AmeriCredit, has been in the
subprime auto business for 21 years and is considered a
bellwether issuer in the asset-backed market, according to
Moody’s. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based company hasn’t yet passed
on the higher costs to borrowers because it never anticipated
they would remain so low and didn’t cut loan rates, according to
chief financial officer Chris Choate.  ‘Unsustainably Low’  They “have come off of what we viewed as unsustainably low
in the first place,” Choate said in an Aug. 19 interview. “We
didn’t adjust our loan pricing or origination appetite to the
positive, so we haven’t had to react to the negative.”  The average interest rate on a 72-month subprime loan has
held at about 14 percent throughout 2013, he said. If funding
costs continue to climb along with  interest rates , the company
will adjust its pricing, he said.  The rising funding costs also may push lenders to finance
less creditworthy customers that will pay higher rates as they
seek to maintain profit margins, Moody’s analyst Yan Yan said in
an interview.  “The space expanded very quickly,” she said. “People
with money didn’t have anywhere else to put it so they were
looking for yield” and buying the bonds, she said.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of
82.2 basis points as of 11 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, climbed 0.62 basis point to 19.25 basis
points as of 11 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Bank of America Corp. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 5.5 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11 a.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  $56 Billion  Bonds tied to auto loans spanning buyers from the weakest
to the most creditworthy make up the largest part of the asset-backed  bond market , accounting for about $56 billion of $164
billion in sales, Bloomberg data show.  Securities tied to subprime loans this year account for the
highest proportion of auto deals since 2007, representing 27
percent of transactions in 2013, Barclays data show. That
compares with 4 percent in 2009 and 30 percent in 2007.  The higher funding costs for subprime-bond issuers are
coinciding with underwriting requirements that have loosened
from the tight standards that prevailed after the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, according to
Citigroup Inc.  Scores Falling  Credit scores from Minneapolis-based Fair Isaac Co., known
as FICOs, have “deteriorated significantly,” Citigroup
analysts said in an Aug. 8 report. The average score for loans
in bond deals completed this year fell to 578, from 587 in 2006,
according to the New York-based analysts led by Mary Kane.  GM Financial’s Choate said underwriting is returning to
normal after the stringent post-crisis terms common in 2009.
While he doesn’t view current standards as loose, the company
has lost business to more aggressive lenders as competition
increased, he said.  “Some of these new entrants are pushing a little bit on
pricing or a little bit on credit,” Choate said.  The New York Fed addressed concerns that that a bubble may
be forming in the subprime auto market in an Aug. 14  report  on
its website, saying that there isn’t evidence that a
“disproportionate or unusual” volume of new loans are being
given to riskier borrowers.  Losses Increase  “While originations to borrowers with the lowest credit
scores have increased, they are just recently approaching
historically normal levels and are below those that we saw
during the boom years leading up to the crisis,” according to
the district bank’s research and statistics group.  Historically, rising  interest rates  coincided with an
improving economy, meaning increases in funding costs were
offset by lower losses on loan portfolios, Choate said. Slow
growth coupled with increased borrowing costs could put pressure
on some of the smaller lenders, he said.  The loss rate on asset-backed bonds linked to subprime auto
debt increased 33 percent to 4.24 percent in June, S&P said in a
report yesterday, citing a seasonal tendency for losses to climb
in the summer months. That’s down from a peak of 13.3 percent in
January 2009, the ratings company said. Losses on deals linked
to prime borrows also rose in June, increasing 37 percent to
0.23 percent, according to the report.  “The end of tax-refund season may be responsible for the
increase in losses,” said the New York-based analysts led by
Mark Risi. “We will be watching closely to see if losses
continue to rise beyond August.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  