-- Swala Energy Will List Tanzanian Unit to Fund Expansion Plans
-- B y   A l a w i   M a s a r e
-- 2013-08-22T04:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/swala-energy-will-list-tanzanian-unit-to-fund-expansion-plans.html
Swala Energy Ltd. (SWE) , the Australian
oil and gas exploration company, plans to list shares in its
Tanzanian unit on the East African nation’s stock exchange next
quarter to fund seismic surveys and grow the business.  Swala Oil and Gas (Tanzania) Ltd. is targeting an Oct. 1
debut on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange’s Enterprise Growth
Market, or EGM, Swala Energy Chief Executive Officer David Mestres Ridge said in an interview yesterday in the commercial
capital. The company, in which Swala Energy owns a 65 percent
stake, is preparing listing documents to be submitted to the
Capital Markets & Securities Authority and plans to raise as
much as $2 million, he said.  “We need to raise equity to grow and we want to do that
here so that we include Tanzanian investors in that growth,”
Ridge said. “Our target is Oct. 1, but it depends on how fast
the process will be.”  Swala began a seismic survey in Tanzania’s Kilosa basin,
where it has an exploration license covering about 17,700 square
kilometers (6,834 square miles). A similar inspection is planned
next month in the Pangani region, where the company also owns a
permit, according to its website. The East African nation
estimates it has 41.7 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural
gas reserves.  Swala’s listing is being managed by Tanzania Securities
Ltd., a Dar es Salaam-based brokerage, which expects to submit
listing documents to the market regulator by the end of this
week, CEO Joseph Uiso said in an interview.  The  Dar es Salaam  Stock Exchange has 17 listed companies
with a total market value of $8.87 billion, according to bourse
data. Swala may become the first company to list on the EGM.  The regulator has received two applications from domestic
companies to list on the segment, which was started in December
2012 and offers less-stringent listing requirements than the
main market to encourage start-up companies to raise capital.  “We have not yet approved any of the submissions, but it’s
our hope that at least one product will start trading before the
end of the year,” said Charles Shirima, a spokesman for the
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alawi Masare in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
 amasare@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  