-- Swipe-Fee Appeal, Basel Bond Math, U.K. Whale: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/swipe-fee-appeal-basel-bond-math-u-k-whale-compliance.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve will appeal
a judge’s decision that its rules on debit-card transaction fees
were illegal, a lawyer for the central bank said during a court
hearing in Washington.  The general counsel for the bank,  Scott Alvarez , told U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon that the bank would file its appeal
yesterday.  The hearing came after retailers battling banks over debit-card transaction costs were handed a victory by Leon, who said
merchants were overcharged billions of dollars under an unlawful
swipe fee set by the Fed.  The decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said will cost them 45
percent of their swipe-fee revenue. Lenders collected about $16
billion annually from those fees before the Fed’s regulation.
The ruling also threatens to erode  Visa (V) ’s dominance of the U.S.
debit-card market and benefit smaller rival  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  as
merchants would have more say about how transactions are
processed.  In his July 31 ruling, Leon said the Fed considered data it
wasn’t allowed to use under the Dodd-Frank law in setting the
cap on the so-called swipe fees at 21 cents, and neglected to
bolster competition in card networks.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  Compliance Policy  Banks Crafting Bonds for Basel Face Math Snag Nykredit Sees  As bankers in the world’s biggest mortgage market per
capita design debt to meet funding rules set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, Denmark’s largest home-loan
provider says the exercise may be a waste of time.  The math behind Basel’s net stable funding ratio suggests
even three-year bonds may not be long enough to keep an issuer
above water if markets really were to shut down for 12 months,
said Soeren Holm, chief financial officer at Copenhagen-based
Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds.  Using “very strict Basel math, you have to have quite a
long maturity of five or seven years,” Holm said.  Banks in Denmark’s $500 billion mortgage bond market have
been scrambling to adapt to Basel’s funding requirement. The
rule threatens to wipe out one of Denmark’s most popular home
finance constructions, in which one-year bonds are rolled over
annually to fund 30-year mortgages.  The home-loan arm of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest
bank, has responded by designing a three-year bond with an
 interest rate  that adjusts every six months. Yet according to
Holm, whose bank competes with Danske for mortgage clients,
swapping one-year bonds for three-year securities will still
leave lenders facing a funding gap.  Denmark’s mortgage banks are now split over how to tackle
new funding rules.  Standard & Poor’s  and Denmark’s committee on
too-big-to-fail banks also have singled out the nation’s one-year mortgage bonds as a risk.  The panel recommended enforcing a national funding rule
next year, four years before Basel’s net stable funding
requirement is due to take effect.  For more, click here.  Swiss Still Deliberating Deal With U.S. on Untaxed Assets  The government of Switzerland continues to deliberate with
the U.S. on untaxed assets, Swiss spokesman Andre Simonazzi said
after the government’s weekly meeting in Bern.  He said more information would be provided at the
conclusion of deliberations, declining to say when that may be.  Switzerland is in talks with the U.S. to shield banks from
being charged for allegedly aiding U.S. tax evaders after
Wegelin & Co. pleaded guilty and closed its doors.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  is among a dozen financial institutions
subject to the U.S. probe.  Parliament in June rejected a bill that would have enabled
the transfer of client data and established legal protection for
bank employees. Switzerland is now negotiating an alternative
with the U.S.  Compliance Action  U.K. Prosecutors Join U.S. Probe of JPMorgan London Whale Loss  U.K. prosecutors are working with U.S. authorities and
British financial regulators as part of an investigation into a
$6.2 billion loss on derivatives at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The Serious Fraud Office, which is in charge of most U.K.
white-collar crime enforcement, is “liaising with our U.S.
counterparts” and the Financial Conduct Authority, spokeswoman
Jina Roe said in an e-mail yesterday.  U.S. prosecutors unsealed charges against London-based
JPMorgan traders Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout last week
for allegedly attempting to hide trading losses caused by Bruno
Iksil, the Frenchman known as the “London Whale” because his
portfolio was so large.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said Aug. 14 that he
was “hopeful” the men, neither of whom are in the U.S., would
return to face the charges. Grout’s lawyers have said he’s in
France, and Martin-Artajo’s have said he is away from his home
in the U.K. on vacation.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, and the U.K. FCA are also probing
the losses.  Courts  ThinkStrategy’s Kapur Avoids Prison in Fraud Case Sentence  ThinkStrategy Capital Management LLC’s Chetan Kapur, who
initially was accused of deceiving investors about returns in
his  hedge funds , avoided prison when he was sentenced to time
served for failing to keep adequate records.  Kapur, 38, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge
John F. Keenan in federal court in Manhattan to the 12 1/2
months he already spent in custody. Kapur was charged in July
2012 with  securities fraud , investor adviser fraud and wire
fraud in connection with losses at his funds from 2002 to 2010.  The former hedge fund manager contended that he lost money
along with other investors and tried to salvage their holdings.
He pleaded guilty last month to one count of failing to keep
adequate records. Prosecutors dropped the other charges.  In November 2011, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged that Kapur misled investors about his funds’
track records and invested with fraudulent funds including
Arthur Nadel’s Valhalla and Victory funds and Samuel Israel’s
Bayou Superfund. The SEC, which said ThinkStrategy had $520
million in assets at its peak in 2008, settled its case against
Kapur that same month.  Nadel, who pleaded guilty in 2010 to defrauding investors
of $168 million, died in prison. Israel, Bayou’s co-founder, is
serving a 22-year prison term after admitting to hiding millions
of dollars in losses.  Kapur has been free on bail since last month, said his
attorney, Daniel Arshack.  In a statement to the judge, Kapur said he is “personally
and professionally very upset about the losses we experienced”
and that he lost much of his own savings in the funds.  Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara, declined to comment on the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kapur, 1:12-cr-00535, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Diamond Foods to Pay $11 Million to Settle Investor Lawsuit  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  agreed to pay $11 million in cash to
settle a class-action lawsuit over accounting errors that led to
earnings restatements and ended its bid for the Pringles potato-chip brand.  Diamond also will issue 4.45 million common shares to a
settlement fund to resolve claims on behalf of investors who
bought stock from Oct. 5, 2010, to Feb. 8, 2012, the San
Francisco-based company said today in a statement. Diamond
denied all claims of wrongdoing or liability in the suit, which
targeted the snack-and-nut company and two former officers.  “We believe this proposed settlement eliminates the burden
of further time, expense and risk related to the class action,”
Chief Executive Officer Brian J. Driscoll said in the statement.
The accord is valued at $96.1 million based on Diamond’s closing
share price Aug. 20, according to court documents filed
yesterday.  In February, a Delaware judge threw out an investor suit
against the company brought by a retirement fund for Hialeah,
Florida, employees, saying their claims should be decided by a
court overseeing a similar case in California.  A portion of the $11 million settlement announced today
will be funded by Diamond’s insurers, the company said. The
accord is subject to court approval.  The case is In Re Diamond Foods Inc. Securities Litigation,
11-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Interviews  Bair Warns on Politically Motivated Actions Over Banks  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila
Bair , Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian and Stanford University economics professor
 John Taylor  participated in a panel discussion about the  U.S.
economy , Federal Reserve policy and financial industry.  Journalist Jennifer Schonberger moderated the panel at the
National Press Club in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Aveng CEO Quits After ‘Taxing’ Collusion Investigation  Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , South Africa’s second-biggest builder, said
Chief Executive Officer Roger Jardine will leave at the end of
the month after a regulatory investigation into collusion in the
industry.  “The Competition Commission’s investigation process has
been personally very taxing, particularly as I have had to deal
with matters that occurred before my appointment and of which I
had no personal knowledge,” Jardine, who was CEO for five
years, said in a statement from the company yesterday.  Aveng accepted a 307-million rand ($30 million) fine in
June after admitting collusion to fix contract prices to build
stadiums for the 2010 Soccer  World Cup . It was one of 15
companies to reach an agreement with the commission.  While the South African construction business has been “a
major disappointment,” the rest of the group’s business “is
holding its own under very difficult market conditions,”
Jardine said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  