-- U.K. Seeks EU Draft Legislation on Carbon Market Fix by Year-End
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-08-22T12:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/u-k-seeks-eu-draft-legislation-on-carbon-market-fix-by-year-end.html
The U.K. wants the European
Commission to propose by the end of this year draft legislation
to strengthen the EU emissions trading system after 2020,
according to the Department of Energy &  Climate Change .  The 28-nation European Union is considering options to
overhaul its carbon market after the price of emission permits
tumbled to a record low in April. The commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, last year floated six scenarios to improve the
system and has signaled it will take its next steps before the
end of December.  “The U.K. wants to see legislative proposals for
substantive structural reform of the EU ETS on the table by the
end of the year at the latest,” DECC said today in an e-mailed
statement. The U.K. favors a 40 percent cut in greenhouse-gas
emissions by 2030 from 1990 levels. “Any reform proposals
should bring the EU ETS into line with this,” DECC said.  Europe ’s 54 billion-euro ($72 billion) carbon market is the
bloc’s key tool to meet its target to reduce emissions by 20
percent in 2020 from 1990. The commission has said the best
scenario would be to cut pollution 40 percent by 2030 and
included setting new goals for the next decade among its ETS
overhaul options in last year’s report on carbon markets.  “In developing a detailed position on structural reforms
we are considering a wide range of options, including those in
the Commission’s Carbon Market Report,” DECC said. “A strong
EU ETS is a cost-effective measure to deliver our longer-term
greenhouse gas targets, provide long-term certainty for
investors, and ensure the EU continues to show leadership on
taking climate action globally.”  Low Demand  The EU’s eight-year-old carbon market allocates tradable
permits to factories and utilities that must surrender enough to
cover their emissions or pay fines. Weak economic growth cut
demand for the allowances, sending prices to record lows and
reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies.  The debate on overhauling the EU market coincides with
discussions about the bloc’s broader climate and energy policies
for 2030. A post-2020 framework is needed to give investors
legal certainty, spur innovation and prepare for a global
climate deal in 2015, the commission said in March.  EU leaders decided in May that they will discuss the new
framework at their gathering in March 2014 after the commission
“comes forward with more concrete proposals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  