-- U.K. Sets New Emissions Targets for Biomass Generators
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-22T14:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/u-k-sets-new-emissions-targets-for-biomass-generators.html
The U.K. set curbs on greenhouse gas
emissions by biomass-fired generators like  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  after
campaigners said the fuel may cause more harm than burning coal.  Power stations that burn wood must cut greenhouse gases to
72 percent below the average output of fossil fuel-fired plants
by 2020 and 75 percent by 2025, the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said today in an e-mailed  statement . The targets
apply to generators with a capacity of 1 megawatt or higher, who
will lose government support should they breach the regulations.  “The new criteria will provide the necessary investor
certainty and, crucially, ensure that the biomass is delivered
in a transparent and sustainable way,” Energy and Climate
Change Minister Greg Barker said. Biomass generation is expected
to be an “important” part of the U.K.’s energy mix, he said.  The rules seek to ensure that rising use of wood for power
doesn’t add to environmental damage or increase emissions from
shipping and deforestation. Groups such as Friends of the Earth
and Greenpeace have said biomass use may raise greenhouse gases.  A spokesman for Barker’s department said the regulations
will apply to generators supported with the U.K.’s Renewables
Obligation and Contracts for Difference programs.  While burning wood emits carbon dioxide, it’s considered to
have lower emissions than fossil fuel as new trees are planted
to replace those that are felled. The European Environment
Agency, an adviser to governments, in July said the land needed
to grow the fuel may still  displace  crops into previously
uncultivated areas, increasing greenhouse emissions.  Dirtier Fuel  Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace and the Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds last year published a  report  saying that
biomass may be dirtier than coal because of transportation, the
need to replace wood diverted for burning with materials such as
plastic and concrete, and the decades required to regrow trees.  While the new regulations improve on previous proposals,
they fail to account for such effects, Greenpeace said today.  “The loopholes in these sustainability standards are big
enough to drive a logging truck through,” Doug Parr, chief
scientist at Greenpeace U.K., said in an e-mail.  Under the rules, generators will need to show sustainable
harvesting of trees, protection of wildlife and plants, and
respect for the land rights of indigenous people from 2015.  ‘Reliable, Flexible’  “These sustainability criteria ensure that the U.K. can
reap the benefits of biomass, safe in the knowledge that it is
making a real dent in our carbon emissions,” industry group
Renewable Energy Association Chief Executive Officer Nina Skorupska said. Biomass “has all the same benefits as fossil
fuels, such as reliability and flexibility of supply, but
without the carbon impacts.”  More than a third of the U.K.’s renewable power comes from
biomass. Drax, the country’s biggest single source of carbon
dioxide, has converted one of its six coal-fired units to burn
mostly biomass, generating as much as 585 megawatts. The company
plans to convert another unit next year and a third in 2016.  “Mandatory criteria are the best way to ensure that all
the biomass used in electricity generation is demonstrably
sustainable and delivers major carbon savings relative to fossil
fuels,” Chief Executive Officer Dorothy Thompson said in an e-mailed statement. Drax has had its own rules in place since 2008
and calculates that its converted unit has cut  emissions  by 80
percent relative to coal, the company said in the statement.  The government has capped the amount of new, dedicated
biomass plants that are able to receive assistance at 400
megawatts. That doesn’t include plants that generate heat as
well as power, or conversions from coal, such as those by Drax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net  