-- U.S. Sues Texas Over Voter-Identification Law
-- B y   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-22T21:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/u-s-to-sue-texas-over-voter-identification-law.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration sued  Texas  to block new voter-identification
rules, escalating a confrontation with Republicans in a state
where Democrats seek gains from a growing Hispanic population.  The  Justice Department  suit, filed today in federal court
in Corpus Christi, Texas, is the second effort by the
administration to upend the state’s voter-identification law and
its first since the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a key
provision of the  Voting Rights  Act earlier this year. The
government also joined a suit on the state’s redistricting plan.  “The state knew or should have known that Hispanic and
African-American Texans disproportionately lack the forms of
photo ID required” by the new law, “as opposed to their Anglo
counterparts,” the government said in the complaint.  The fight over Texas voting rules comes amid a surge in the
state’s Hispanic population, which in the 2012 election voted 71
percent nationally for Obama, according to exit polls. Texas is
the only one of the four majority-minority states that didn’t
vote for Obama in 2012. Latinos make up about 38 percent of the
population, yet cast only 22 percent of the votes, according to
research by  Mark Jones , chairman of the political science
department at  Rice University  in Houston.  Democratic Activists  Advocacy groups aligned with the  Democratic Party  are
seeking to capitalize on the state’s shifting demographics.  Texas’s elected officials, led by Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, vowed to fight back against what they perceive as
federal intervention in state sovereignty.  “The filing of endless litigation in an effort to obstruct
the will of the people of Texas is what we have come to expect
from Attorney General Eric Holder and President Obama,” Perry
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Justice Department today officially joined a separate
lawsuit to force Texas to get federal approval before enacting
new voter maps. That redistricting challenge by minority voting-rights advocates has been underway in U.S. court in  San Antonio 
since the Republican-controlled state legislature created new
election districts in 2011.  Holder moved to block the photo-ID law in 2012 under the
 Voting Rights Act , saying it would disenfranchise minority
voters. Today’s suit draws on a different section of the act to
ask a federal judge to require that Texas receive federal
clearance before making any changes to its voting laws.  ‘Open Season’  “We will not allow the Supreme Court’s recent decision to
be interpreted as open season for states to pursue measures that
suppress voting rights,” Holder said today in a statement.
“The department will take action against jurisdictions that
attempt to hinder access to the ballot box, no matter where it
occurs.”  Texas’s photo-ID law requires voters to show one of six
kinds of government-issued identification cards to vote in
person at the polls. Voters lacking those cards must show
identity documents to obtain election ID certificates at state
drivers’ license offices, which aren’t open on evenings or
weekends. Many counties lack drivers’ license offices, which
means some voters have to travel as far as 200 miles roundtrip
to be eligible to vote.  “Federal courts have ruled time and again that government
officials in Texas are systematically making it harder for
minorities to vote,” Trey Martinez Fischer, chairman of the
Mexican American Legislative Caucus in Texas, said in an e-mailed statement. “Overwhelming evidence” of intentional
discrimination to be shown in court will force state officials
to remove barriers to voting, he said.  Political Effort  U.S. Senator  John Cornyn , also a Texas Republican, said the
federal suit represents a political effort by the Democratic
administration to “turn our state blue.”  “We deserve the freedom to make our own laws and we
deserve not to be insulted by a Justice Department committed to
scoring cheap political points,” Cornyn said in a statement.  Lawyers for the state have defended Texas’s new election
maps as legal gerrymanders intended to disadvantage the opposing
political party rather than minorities.  The state claims the voter-ID measure will prevent non-citizens from casting fraudulent votes. The U.S. says in its
complaint that proponents of the ID requirement “cited
virtually no evidence during or after enactment” of the law
that in-person voter fraud was a “serious problem” in Texas.  Congressional Seats  Texas gained four new congressional seats in 2010, based on
the U.S. Census finding that the state added more than 4 million
new residents in the previous decade. About 80 percent of the
new Texans are minorities, according to the 2010 census.  The  Supreme Court ’s June ruling struck down a core
provision related to the requirement that states with a history
of voter discrimination obtain federal preclearance before
enacting changes to voting laws. The decision invalidated the
Justice Department’s decision to block the state’s voter-identification law in 2012, a step taken after the department
determined the law “intentionally” disenfranchised Hispanic
voters.  The suit asks the court to block enforcement of the voter-identification law -- something pursued under Section 2 of the
Voting Rights Act -- while also requesting that Texas be
subjected to a new preclearance requirement.  The redistricting suit asks a three-judge panel in San
Antonio to also require Texas to obtain preclearance under
Section 3 of the Voting Rights Act, and to block implementation
of new election maps state lawmakers adopted in June.  The case is U.S. v. Texas, 2:13-00263, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas ( Corpus Christi ). The redistricting
case is Perez vs. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  