-- U.S. Credit Swaps Fall Most in Six Weeks; Santander Sells Bonds
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-22T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-santander-to-sell-500-million-of-bonds.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds declined by the most in six weeks as jobless
claims in the U.S. dropped to a five-year low.  Banco Santander 
SA sold $500 million of five-year notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 3.7 basis
points to a mid-price of 80.7 basis points as of 5:20 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest one-day drop since July 11.  A strengthening economy will bolster U.S. companies’
ability to cover interest expenses and repay debt. The number of
unemployment claims in the month ended Aug. 17 fell to 330,500 a
week on average, the least since November 2007, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington , as  Germany  led growth in
manufacturing and services in the euro area.  The jobs report was “an unexciting weekly report but one
that keeps the labor market in the right zone to feel the glow
of ongoing  job creation ,”  Andrew Wilkinson , the chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, increased 6.1 basis
points last week, the largest advance since the period ended
June 21.  Santander Bonds  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A unit of Banco Santander sold 3.45 percent notes due
August 2018 at 180 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, declined 15.5 basis points to 398.5, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 0.3 basis point to 130.3
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt decreased 3 to 567.3.  Credit-rating cuts for Lone Pine Resources Canada Ltd. and
Spain-based Codere SA increased the global corporate default
tally to 55 issuers this year, according to a report from
Standard & Poor’s Global Fixed Income Research today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  