-- U.S. Sale of Inflation Securities Draws Highest Yield in 3 Years
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-22T21:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/u-s-sale-of-inflation-securities-draws-highest-yield-in-3-years.html
A $16 billion auction of U.S. five-year inflation-indexed notes drew the highest yield in more than
three years amid bets the economic recovery is strong enough for
the  Federal Reserve  to begin withdrawing monetary stimulus.  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities sold yesterday
 yielded  negative 0.127 percent, the highest level since April
2010, with investors wary of paying a premium to guard against
the threat of rising consumer prices. The last sale, an $18
billion offering on April 18, drew a yield of negative 1.311
percent, the second-lowest on record, after the securities sold
at a record negative 1.496 percent in December 2012.  “The front end of the TIPS curve is not an area where
people are super-excited about after the backup in rates we’ve
seen,” said  George Goncalves , the head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers
obligated to bid at U.S. debt auctions. “Investors are even
less worried about inflation as we get closer to tapering,
because there will be less money in the system.”  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the consumer
price index, in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.  Yesterday’s sale had a 2.18  bid-to-cover  ratio, a gauge of
demand that compares the amount bid with the amount offered,
matching the ratio at the previous auction in April, which was
the weakest since October 2008. The average at the previous 10
sales was 2.77.  Disinflation Risk  “There are still difficult times ahead for TIPS, as there
is caution from investors in reengaging the market fully after
the big selloff we’ve seen,” said Carlos Pro, an interest-rate
strategist at the primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG in  New
York . “There is a challenging outlook for inflation, with
disinflation still a risk in the U.S. And that backdrop combines
with the likely September taper from the Fed.”  TIPS maturing in three to five years have lost 3.6 percent
this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.
TIPS of all maturities have slid 9.4 percent in 2013, on pace
for the worst loss since they were first sold in 1997. The
broader Treasury market has fallen 3.8 percent, Merrill Lynch
data show.  Inflation expectations have plummeted this year as
investors begin to price in an end to the Fed’s $85 billion
monthly bond-buying program that has swelled the Fed’s  balance
sheet  to a record $3.65 trillion.  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s last policy
meeting, released on Aug. 21, showed officials are comfortable
with a plan to start reducing bond buying later this year if the
economy improves.  September Start  The central bank will start tapering in September and end
purchases in mid-2014, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists conducted Aug. 9-13.  The FOMC holds its next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  The difference in yield between five-year notes and
similar-maturity TIPS, a measure of trader expectations for
inflation over the life of the debt, called the  break-even rate ,
has fallen to 1.76 percentage points, down from a high for the
year of 2.42 percentage points in March. The measure has
averaged 2.07 percent over the past year.  The U.S.  consumer-price index  increased 0.2 percent in July
after a 0.5 percent gain in June, the Labor Department reported
Aug. 15. The advance matched the median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bidder Participation  At yesterday’s auction,  indirect bidders , a class of
investors that includes foreign central banks, purchased 38.2
percent of the TIPS. The average for the previous 10 offerings
was 41.1 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 8.1 percent of the
securities. The average at the past 10 sales was 8.9 percent.  Investors bid $2.89 for each dollar of the $1.345 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  