-- MUB at Record-Long Discount Shows No Signs of Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-22T13:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/mub-at-record-long-discount-shows-no-signs-of-rally-muni-credit.html
The largest exchange-traded fund
tracking the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market is selling for
less than the value of its holdings for a record stretch as
demand for local debt sinks to the lowest level in more than two
years.  The  $3.2 billion  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund, known as MUB, traded at a discount to its net asset
value for  61 straight days  through Aug. 21, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It’s the longest run since the 60-day period
following bank analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s incorrect projection
in December 2010 of “hundreds of billions of dollars” of
local-government defaults within a year.  MUB, created in September 2007, traded at 98.8 percent of
its net asset value in  New York  on Aug. 21, according to
Bloomberg data. The current discount may persist for the next
few weeks, reflecting concern that  interest rates  will rise
further if the  Federal Reserve  cuts its bond purchases, said
Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research in New
York.  Yields on benchmark munis have soared to their highest
levels in more than two years as investors wait for the next
Federal Open Market Committee meeting beginning Sept. 17. Fear
of more increases is “front and center as a worry,” Mosley
said.  “Until we get some clarity on that, people are going to be
nervous about recommitting assets to fixed income,” he said.  Fund Withdrawals  Investors have pulled $13.8 billion from U.S. muni mutual
funds in the eight weeks through Aug. 14, the most since
February 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. The withdrawals
have been reflected in the shares of MUB. The fund traded at
 $101.88 (MUB)  at 9:35 a.m. in New York today, near the lowest since
April 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  It has lost $41 million of cash this year through Aug. 19,
fueled by $252 million of outflows in the past two-and-a-half
months, Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman for BlackRock, said in
an e-mail. That exceeds the $240 million of withdrawals from MUB
in the three months through January 2011.  While ETFs are similar to mutual funds that track an index
of equities, bonds or commodities, they are bought and sold on
 stock exchanges  and their prices may rise or fall more than the
value of the assets they hold.  Two-Year High  Yields on benchmark 10-year municipals climbed to 3.09
percent Aug. 21, the highest since April 2011, Bloomberg data
show. For investors in the highest tax bracket, 39.6 percent,
the 3.09 percent benchmark yield for 10-year munis is equivalent
to a taxable return of 5.12 percent, Bloomberg data show. The
yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries was  2.89 percent  Aug. 21, the
highest since July 2011.  “Although munis are getting interesting, there might be a
better entry point down the road when there’s more clarity in
the rate cycle,” said Matthew Tucker, head of iShares fixed-income strategy at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in  San Francisco .  “If we keep getting higher rates, investors could enter at
a more attractive yield level,” he said in a telephone
interview.  State and city debt is less expensive than comparable
federal securities. Since June 1, yields on top-rated munis
maturing in 10 years have been higher than those for similarly-maturing Treasuries every day except for five. The ratio stood
at  107 percent  Aug. 21, higher than the five-year average of
about 101 percent, Bloomberg data show.  While interest rates may increase in the next few weeks and
the MUB may continue trading at a discount, the fund does offer
investors a way to access the tax-exempt market, Mosley said.  ‘More Attractive’  “Municipals as a whole are much more attractive than
they’ve been in a while and the MUB is an attractive way to gain
exposure to that,” Mosley said. “It’s one of the cheaper parts
of a cheap asset class right now.”  Investors in search of tax-free debt to purchase in the
near term should buy bonds directly through a broker rather than
an exchange-traded fund or a mutual fund structured with a net-asset value, Matt Fabian, managing director at MMA, wrote in an
Aug. 19 report.  It’s difficult, if not impossible to predict the full
impact of the Fed reducing bond purchases, as well as “where
levels will ultimately wind up and whether or not there will be
a snap-back rally to follow,” Fabian said in the report.
“Accounts unwilling to wait should be investing in individual
bonds and not NAV-based instruments.”  $4.5 Billion  Dormitory Authority of the State of New York and  Dallas ’s
 water and sewer system  are among issuers borrowing about $4.5
billion of long-term debt this week, Bloomberg data show.  At  4.67 percent , benchmark 30-year munis are near the
highest since April 2011, Bloomberg data show. That compares
with  3.92 percent  for Treasuries with similar maturity.  The ratio of the two yields, a measure of relative value,
is about  119 percent , higher than the five-year average of 112
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 