-- UBS Promotes O’Connor CIO Fitzpatrick in Fund Unit Revamp
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2013-08-22T16:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ubs-promotes-o-connor-cio-fitzpatrick-in-fund-unit-revamp.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
promoted Dawn Fitzpatrick, the investment chief of the firm’s
$5.2 billion O’Connor hedge-fund business, as the company seeks
to increase assets under management.  Fitzpatrick, 43, will take on all responsibilities for
running O’Connor and will report directly to John Fraser, who
runs the Zurich-based bank’s global asset-management division,
according to an e-mailed statement. Bill Ferri, 47, who was
Fitzpatrick’s boss as head of the Alternative and Quantitative
investments business, will instead focus on running the $25.4
billion fund-of-funds unit, according to the statement.  UBS is changing O’Connor’s structure after a clampdown on
cash bonuses helped spur trader defections. The lender revamped
its compensation in February, paying some bonuses in bonds that
only vest after five years and can be wiped out if the firm has
a capital shortfall.  The Alternative and Quantitative business, which comprised
O’Connor and the fund-of-funds unit known as Alternative
Investment Solutions, will cease to exist. Ferri, 47, will
oversee the management of AIS, where Bruce Amlicke will continue
to work as chief investment officer. Fitzpatrick and Ferri are
both based in  New York .  “It puts both businesses strategically in a way that they
have the highest degree of success,” Fitzpatrick said in an
interview today.  O’Connor Hiring  O’Connor has hired four portfolio managers and three other
investment professionals in the past eight weeks, according to
UBS. They include Nilay Shah, who joined O’Connor’s Chicago
office from Ivory Investment Management LP at the end of July,
and Meraj Sepehrnia, who came to the London office from Carrhae
Capital LLP last week, UBS said.  The unit also started a new investment strategy Aug. 1 that
bets on rising and falling Asian stock prices, Fitzpatrick said.
O’Connor employs more than 100 people globally across its funds,
which wager on stocks, bonds and corporate mergers.  At least seven portfolio managers have left O’Connor this
year to join hedge-fund firms, including BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP, Millennium Management LLC and Tudor Investment
Corp., people with knowledge of the matter said in May. In June,
O’Connor began cutting 16 of 46 jobs at an equity fund, while
adding traders focused on corporate bonds, said another person
with knowledge of the matter.  At the time, a UBS spokeswoman said  O’Connor  regularly
reviews its hedge-fund business to ensure it has the right mix
of traders to invest in asset classes where the firm expects the
best returns.  Adding Strategies  UBS will also try to expand its fund-of-funds business by
hiring and adding investment strategies, Ferri said in the
interview today. The unit will probably try to raise money from
clients to buy stakes in  hedge funds , he said. Fund-of-funds
typically charge clients an extra layer of fees to pick hedge-fund investments.  UBS’s hedge fund and fund-of-funds businesses manage
clients’ money, not the bank’s own.  The decision by UBS to tie some deferred pay to contingent
capital bonds, which can be written down if the bank’s common
equity ratio falls below 7 percent or it needs a bailout,
prompted some O’Connor traders to complain that hedge-fund
bonuses should be linked to the performance of their investment
funds, one of the people with knowledge of the matter said in
May. The bank then reduced the portion of O’Connor pay that
would be linked to the bonds, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  