-- UBS Sees Golden Window for China Issues Before Fed Taper
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-22T03:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ubs-sees-golden-window-for-issues-before-fed-taper-china-credit.html
Chinese companies may boost dollar-denominated bond sales next month as higher onshore borrowing
costs encourage overseas issuance before the Federal Reserve
pares stimulus, said  UBS AG (UBSN) , the second-largest arranger.  China  National Offshore Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest
offshore energy explorer, may sell dollar securities, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Road King
Infrastructure Ltd. (1098)  will meet global investors this week, a
separate person said. Meiya Power Co. sold 2018 dollar notes
last week at 4 percent, less than the average 5.2 percent yield
on onshore top-rated yuan  debt  with similar maturities.  “September is a golden window for Chinese issuers,”
Patrick Liu, head of international debt capital markets in Hong
Kong for UBS China, said in an Aug. 19 interview. “They will
probably rush to sell instead of waiting.”  Chinese companies, which issued a record $22.8 billion in
the second quarter, have since trimmed offerings in the U.S.
currency as fund outflows prompted a 0.6 percent loss since July
1 on dollar notes in  Asia . The region’s local-currency bonds
performed worse, shedding 1.9 percent. As yuan borrowing costs
rise after China’s worst cash crunch in at least a decade,
corporates are again considering offshore issues.  That trend may continue even after the Fed begins reducing
its note purchases, amid concerns that fundraising costs in
China will remain elevated, according to UBS’s Liu.  Onshore Crunch  Policy makers at the central bank were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start
reducing bond buying later this year if the economy improves,
with a few saying tapering might be needed soon, minutes of
their last meeting released yesterday show. The Fed will
probably reduce its monthly purchases at its Sept. 17-18
meeting, according to 65 percent of 48 economists in an Aug.
9-13 Bloomberg survey.  “Even though offshore liquidity will no longer be
excessively loose, given the outlook for onshore liquidity, I
don’t think the Fed tapering would cause a reduction in offshore
dollar bond issuance,” Liu said. He added that total issuance
in 2014 may be at the same level as this year.  Dollar note sales by mainland and  Hong Kong  companies total
$46.4 billion so far this year, compared with $50.5 billion for
all of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Heading Offshore  Chinese regulators have tightened  money supply  since June
in an effort to force investors to shift funds out of so-called
shadow banks. The seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of
interbank funding availability, has averaged 4.11 percent in the
second half, compared with 3.85 percent in the previous six
months, according to a daily fixing rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  “Yields are surging in the onshore primary market because
of the tight liquidity,” said Dong Hui, a bond analyst at China
Securities Co. in Beijing. “The weak demand in the onshore
market will probably drive more and more companies to try
cheaper offshore financings.”  Rising costs have curbed  yuan  bond sales in the mainland.
Chinese borrowers have issued 173.9 billion yuan ($28 billion)
of onshore bonds so far this month, compared with 291 billion
yuan in July, set for the least since January 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  yield  on five-year AAA rated corporate bonds climbed 28
basis points this month to 5.24 percent, the highest level since
November 2011. Rates on investment-grade offshore dollar debt
for Chinese companies advanced 22 basis points to 4.17 percent,
according to Merrill Lynch indexes.  Economic Stabilization  “A lot of companies are doing non-deal roadshows after
their results announcements this month so I wouldn’t be
surprised if they come to the market before the Fed’s
announcement on tapering,” said Annisa Lee, a credit analyst in
Hong Kong at Nomura Holdings Inc. “There’s no safe haven so if
one focuses on high-yield, one can’t ignore China.”  Signs that a slowdown in  China’s economy  is stabilizing
have assuaged concerns that some companies may fail to pay off
debt. While expansion slowed to 7.5 percent last quarter from
7.7 percent in the previous three months, sentiment has improved
as data released this month showed pick-ups in trade,
manufacturing and services. The latest sign came today when the
preliminary reading of 50.1 for the manufacturing  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics topped a final figure of 47.7 in July.  “We’re sanguine on the growth outlook,” said Hayden Briscoe, a Hong Kong-based director of Asia-Pacific fixed-income
at AllianceBernstein Hong Kong Ltd. At the same time, two more
months of improving activity is needed “before we can say we’re
getting comfortable with a turn in the economy,” Briscoe said.  Property Bonds  China’s credit-default  swap  contracts insuring the nation’s
debt against non-payment have dropped 24.5 basis points from a
high for the year in June to 122.5 basis points, according to
data provider CMA. The yuan traded at 6.1265 per dollar as of
9:49 a.m. in  Shanghai , China Foreign Exchange Trade System
prices showed.  Real estate companies will remain the dominant Chinese
issuers of dollar bonds due to their limited channels to raise
funds onshore, according to UBS’s Liu. Global investors prefer
the securities for their relatively higher yields, he said.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. sold $500 million of five-year
bonds with a 4.5 percent coupon on July 29. UBS was one of the
lead arrangers. The rate on the company’s onshore yuan bonds due
October 2019 was at 5.2 percent on the same day.  China’s new home prices rose the most last month since
January 2011 in the nation’s four major cities on speculation
the government will refrain from imposing tighter curbs. Prices
in 69 of 70 cities tracked by the government climbed from a year
earlier, data released on Aug. 18 showed.  China’s real-estate dollar bonds have returned 3.3 percent
this quarter, the third best-performing industry after
electronics and textiles, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  “Among all the high-yield dollar bonds, property bonds are
the easiest to sell,” said UBS’s Liu. “Property companies have
had no problem in repaying interest and principal over the past
few years.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  