-- Hugh Osmond Resigns From Phoenix Board With Targets ‘On Track’
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-08-22T10:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/hugh-osmond-resigns-from-phoenix-board-with-targets-on-track-.html
Hugh Osmond, British founder of the
U.K. restaurant chain Pizza Express, stepped down as a director
of  Phoenix Group Holdings Plc (PHNX)  after eight years at the company
he created.  Osmond’s resignation from the U.K.’s biggest manager of
life insurance funds that are closed to new customers, came as
the Jersey-based company said in a statement today it’s “on
track” to meet its financial targets. Osmond, 51, is the
company’s second-biggest shareholder, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I am very sad to be stepping down from the board after
eight years of continuous service, but extremely pleased with
the state of the company that I am leaving, Osmond said in a
separate statement.  Talks to combine the company with Swiss Re Ltd.’s closed-life unit Admin Re business are continuing, Chief Executive
Officer Clive Bannister said in a telephone interview in  London .
Phoenix has surged 14 percent since the world’s second-largest
reinsurer said on July 12 it may merge the unit and take a
minority stake as payment. In the first-half, Phoenix raised 250
million pounds ($389 million) of capital and repaid 450 million
pounds of debt, the company said.  ‘Stronger Position’  ‘‘The first six months of the year has been
transformational,” Bannister said. “We are now in a much
better and stronger position to consider the future of growth of
the company.” There is as much as 200 billion pounds worth of
closed-life business in the U.K. that could potentially be
acquired, he said.  The stock was down 0.5 percent to 741.5 pence at 11:45 a.m.
in London, valuing the insurer at 1.72 billion pounds.  Phoenix generated cash of 416 million pounds and is on
schedule to reach its full-year target of as much as 750 million
pounds, the insurer said. The company raised its dividend 27
percent to 26.7 pence a share, in line with the 2012 final
payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  