-- UN Inspectors Seek to Investigate Alleged Syria Atrocity
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-22T17:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/un-inspectors-seek-to-investigate-alleged-syria-atrocity.html
Syrian troops renewed their
artillery assault on a Damascus suburb where the opposition says
hundreds were killed by toxic gases, as  France  urged the world
to respond “with force” to any use of chemical weapons.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon ordered his
top envoy on disarmament affairs, Angela Kane, to travel to
Damascus to discuss the alleged chemical attack, according to an
e-mailed UN statement. Ban today will formally ask Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s government to allow a UN chemical
weapons inspection team already in the capital to visit the
site, a spokesman,  Martin Nesirky , said in the statement.  Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich
told reporters in Moscow today that  Syria , which has denied
using chemical weapons, has pledged “maximum cooperation” with
the UN experts.  Opposition groups said as many as 1,300 people died
yesterday in a chemical weapons attack on Ghouta, a toll that
could not be independently verified. While the use of chemicals
has not been confirmed, doctors on the scene reported injuries
consistent with the use of nerve gas and pesticides, and photos
and video footage posted on the Internet showed bodies without
visible wounds.  War Crime  A chemical attack, if confirmed, would be a war crime and
the worst atrocity in 2 1/2 years of civil war in which more
than 100,000 Syrians have died and millions more have been
displaced, according to UN estimates. The U.S. and European
powers have resisted opposition appeals for more help as  Iran 
and Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia bolster Assad.  Forces loyal to Assad pounded the Ghouta district today
with mortars and heavy guns, sending thick plumes of smoke
rising, according to a video posted on Facebook by the Syrian
Revolution General Commission.  The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported
“violent” clashes near a government checkpoint in the area on
its Facebook page.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said the world
should respond “with force” if chemical weapons were deployed.  Force  “If it’s true, the position of France is that there needs
to be a reaction,” Fabius said on France’s RMC radio. “That
reaction can take the form of force.”  The U.S. is “working urgently” to gather information
about the reports, the White House said in a statement
yesterday.  “The videos on television are certainly troubling, but
from the videos alone it is difficult to tell exactly what has
happened,” said Philip Coyle, former associate director for
national security and international affairs in the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy.  Nonetheless, the “fact that so many of the wounded and
dead have no apparent shrapnel or other types of wounds that
might come from rifle or artillery attacks is also suggestive”
of chemical weapons, Coyle, now a senior science fellow at the
Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, a Washington
research group, said in an interview.  Muscle Spasms  Doctors contacted in Douma, a northeastern suburb of
Damascus, described casualties with symptoms seen in chemical
attacks, including muscle spasms, disorientation, pinpoint
pupils and respiratory distress that may lead to death.  Casualties started arriving at the medical facilities in
the rebel-controlled area after heavy shelling began around 3
a.m. local time, according to the doctors, who spoke in a Skype
call arranged by the Syrian Support Group, a Washington group
that works with the U.S. government to deliver non-lethal
military aid to the rebels.  The 10 medical facilities in the Ghouta district were
overwhelmed and many people died because of a lack of
respiratory equipment and drugs, according to a man identified
as Khaled Ad-Doumi, head of the Douma medical office. His
facility reported that 63 of about 600 casualties died.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  