-- Hungary's Government Mulls Mandatory Mortgage Conversions
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-22T15:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/hungary-s-government-mulls-mandatory-mortgage-conversions.html
Hungary’s government is considering
automatically converting as much as $8 billion worth of foreign-currency mortgages into forint loans, an official said, in a
pre-election push to relieve pressure on borrowers.  The government and central bank may contribute to a plan
that seeks to cut both principal and interest payments, Economy
Ministry State Secretary Gabor Orban said in an interview
published today by Budapest-based magazine Heti Valasz.
Borrowers may choose to opt out, he said.  Making the conversions obligatory would be Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s most comprehensive move yet to reduce the stock
of foreign currency loans and help Hungarians burdened by
mortgage payments that soared after the economic crisis weakened
the forint. The mortgages -- mostly denominated in Swiss francs
-- amounted to $8 billion at the end of June, and 16 percent
were non-performing, according to central bank data.  Participation in the plan should be “mandatory, but if
someone wants to opt-out, there will be a possibility for this
as well,” State Secretary Orban said, according to Heti Valasz,
citing limited take-up in previous plans.  The forint strengthened 0.4 percent to 299.55 per euro by
4:27 p.m. today in Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, was unchanged at 4,280 forint, erasing earlier losses.  Swallowing Losses  Orban effectively banned foreign-currency mortgage lending
after assuming power in 2010. The forint plunged 15 percent
against the euro in the second half of 2011, the most in the
world, after the government temporarily allowed foreign-currency
mortgages to be paid back in a lump sum at below-market exchange
rates, forcing lenders to swallow losses.  With an election approaching next year, the government is
in talks with banks over the new plan, which the ministry’s
Orban said last month excludes foreign-currency home-equity
loans. Those loans amounted to $8 billion at the end of June,
according to the central bank data.  Under the new plan, “it’s not at all certain” that
borrowers will be able to convert the loans “at preferential
exchange rates,” State Secretary Orban said.  The government and banks may discuss two proposals at an
Aug. 27 meeting, Portfolio.hu reported, without citing anyone.
One would be to convert foreign-currency mortgages into forint
at market exchange rates, with lenders and the government
splitting the cost of reducing principal and interest payments,
the website said. The central bank would use about 5 billion
euros ($6.67 billion) of its reserve to help banks convert
foreign currencies into forint under the plan, Portfolio said.  Another option would be to phase out foreign-currency
mortgages over several years, Portfolio said.  Central Bank  The central bank didn’t immediately reply to e-mailed
questions seeking comment about the potential role of the MNB in
the latest plan. Its participation would be “professionally
justified,” State Secretary Orban said in the Heti Valasz
interview, as converting foreign-currency mortgages into forint
would reduce the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s foreign-currency reserve
requirement.  The government may channel funds away from an existing
“exchange-rate barrier” mortgage program, which attracted only
40 percent of eligible borrowers, into a new forint conversion
plan, the ministry’s Orban said. The barrier plan keeps
installments fixed, and the difference between the fixed and
market exchange rates accumulates in an account whose costs are
divided among borrowers, banks and the government.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, competes with
mostly foreign banks, including  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische
Landesbank ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  