-- UPS Ending Health Coverage for Spouses Signals Cost Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-08-22T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/ups-ending-health-coverage-for-spouses-signals-cost-cuts.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s
decision to drop health benefits for 15,000 of its workers’
spouses may be a sign of the future, as U.S. businesses grapple
with rising medical bills and the added burdens of Obamacare.  The nation’s fourth-largest employer said yesterday that it
will no longer offer health coverage beginning Jan. 1 to spouses
who can get it though another company. UPS cited the 2010
health-care law as part of its thinking, saying it would
increase costs and provide other insurance options for spouses.  The shift is a sign of corporate America’s increasing
willingness to make deep changes to benefits once taken as a
given by workers. The health-care overhaul, estimated to boost
business expenses by 2 percent to 4 percent next year, is adding
to the momentum that has already spurred higher deductibles and
surcharges for covering dependents.  “The feeling is drastic times call for drastic measures,”
said Rich Fuerstenberg, a partner at New York-based benefits
consultant  Mercer Inc.  “What employers are adopting today are
strategies that were considered crazy or out of the mainstream
just a few years ago.”  UPS rose 1 percent to $86.96 at the close in New York. The
stock has  gained  18 percent this year.  Benefits Change  The benefits change will only affect workers in the U.S.,
according to a  memo  to employees published yesterday by Kaiser
Health News. Spouses who don’t work or lack employer-provided
insurance will still be covered by the Atlanta-based company’s
health plan, as will workers’ children, according to the memo.
The change won’t affect 250,000 Teamsters union workers or
employees in other countries.  “Since the Affordable Care Act requires employers to
provide affordable coverage, we believe your spouse should be
covered by their own employer -- just as UPS has a
responsibility to offer coverage to you, our employee,” UPS
said in the memo. “Limiting plan eligibility is one way to
manage ongoing health care costs.”  Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department, had no comment about UPS’s move.  “Since the Affordable Care Act became law, health care
costs have been slowing and premiums are increasing by the
lowest rates in years,” Peters said in an e-mail. “The law is
changing the way we deliver care to keep costs down and produce
better outcomes for patients.”  The act isn’t the only reason employers are reassessing
benefits, said Mercer’s Fuerstenberg. In its memo, UPS also
cited “the rising cost of health care in general” and expenses
for chronic conditions such as cancer and heart disease.  ‘Simple’ Explanation  “But those are all a lot harder and a lot more nuanced to
communicate,” Fuerstenberg said. “Obamacare is a simple, easy-to-explain reason as to why our costs are going up and your
benefits have to change.”  The 2010 law seeks to extend health coverage to more of the
nation’s 50 million uninsured and requires all Americans to
obtain insurance next year. Employers with 50 or more full-time
workers will have to provide health benefits, though the Obama
administration said last month that it was delaying the
provision by a year at the request of business leaders.  A Kaiser Family Foundation study released earlier this week
showed employer premiums rose 4 percent this year, less than in
the previous two years. Even so, companies continue to seek ways
to cut medical bills that are increasing faster than inflation,
Fuerstenberg said.  More Companies  UPS in its decision joined 6 percent of U.S. employers who
excluded spouses from health coverage last year, according to a
survey by Mercer of companies with at least 500 workers. That
was double the figure in 2008. Another 6 percent imposed a
surcharge on top of health-care premiums for insuring spouses.  “Is it a harbinger of things to come? Possibly,” Paul Fronstin, a director at the Washington-based Employee Benefit
Research Institute, said of UPS’s decision. “Once a major
employer like UPS takes a step, all of the others will at least
start looking at it.”  The question for other companies will be whether the health
plan savings from dropping some spouses outweigh the cost in
terms of recruitment and retention, he said.  “There’s a reason that employers have been offering health
benefits voluntarily for decades,” Fronstin said. “For some,
it makes sense for business.”  How the shift affects individual families depends on the
cost and quality of the  health plan  a spouse can get through his
or her own job, he said. In general, employers offer bigger
subsidies for workers on individual policies than for those with
family plans, he said.  Law’s Provisions  The health law imposes new taxes and requires companies to
expand coverage of preventive care and workers’ adult children.
In June, a Mercer survey of 900 companies found 37 percent
expected the law to increase their expenses by at least 3
percent next year.  The law may eventually offer employers a way out of
benefits altogether. Detroit and  Chicago  have announced they’ll
limit or end coverage for some retired municipal workers, with
the expectation they can buy plans through new insurance
websites created by the act. Those are scheduled to open on Oct.
1.  If the sites are a success, “you’ll see some private
employers go down that road in the future,” Fuerstenberg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  