-- Vintage Wine Estates Buys Shrem’s Napa Winery Clos Pegase
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-08-22T05:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/vintage-wine-estates-buys-shrem-s-napa-valley-estate-clos-pegase.html
Vintage Wine Estates, based in  Santa
Rosa ,  California , said it bought Clos Pegase Winery in the
northern  Napa Valley , adding to properties it owns in the state
including Windsor Vineyards, Girard Winery and Ray’s Station.  The deal for Clos Pegase, founded 30 years ago, comprises
450 acres (182 hectares) of vineyards, some of which are in the
northern Calistoga appellation and a lease in Los Carneros,
where Napa Valley meets the  San Francisco Bay , according to a
statement yesterday on PR Newswire.  The deal comes amid rising demand for Californian premium
wine since 2011 after three years of decline during the
financial crisis.  John Kapon , chief executive officer of New
York-based auction house Acker Merrall & Condit, described
demand for California wines last month as “very healthy.”  “It’s the perfect complement to the Vintage Wine Estates
portfolio, offering classic Napa Valley wines from only estate-grown grapes,” Pat Roney of Vintage said in the statement.  Jan Shrem, 83, established Clos Pegase in the early 1980s,
first acquiring 50 acres of vineyard in Calistoga and then
adding further land at the northern and southern ends of Napa
Valley, according to the  Clos Pegase  website. He built the
estate with money made from a Japanese publishing company he
created and later sold, and studied winemaking in the early
1980s at the University of Bordeaux.  The estate’s wines include Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc
whites, reds made from  Cabernet Sauvignon , Merlot, Pinot Noir,
Cabernet Franc and Syrah, a rose and a late-harvest Chardonnay.
Prices according to its website range from $20 for a Sauvignon
Blanc to $100 for its 2006 Hommage Cabernet Sauvignon.  Vintage Wine Estates  is a privately owned company, whose
properties also include Cosentino Winery in Napa, Sonoma Coast
Vineyards and Cartlidge & Browne, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 