-- Wal-Mart's Simon Urges Efforts on U.S. Manufacturing Jobs
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-22T22:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/wal-mart-s-simon-urges-efforts-on-u-s-manufacturing-jobs.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s U.S. chief
 Bill Simon  urged companies to create domestic manufacturing
jobs, saying the effort is good for businesses as it cuts costs
by having goods produced closer to where they are consumed.  “We want to move forward and seize the opportunity to
bring jobs back,” Simon said today at an event in  Orlando ,
Florida. “We can’t become solely a service economy. We need to
make things in America.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, organized the two-day conference that drew almost 1,500 government officials and
business leaders, to discuss the importance of retaining and
increasing manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Wal-Mart and its
suppliers at the summit announced plans to create more than
1,000 American jobs, including 150 at  General Electric Co. (GE)  to
make energy-efficient  light bulbs .  “Some categories are easy to bring back, and we should go
after them,” Simon told the gathering, which was webcast by
Wal-Mart. “There’s low-hanging fruit that we’re already
starting to pick. Others will be a stretch, but we should reach
for those too.”  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer pledged earlier
this year to buy an additional $50 billion in American-made
products over the next 10 years.  The event today, held at the Orlando Convention Center, was
attended by U.S. Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  and the
governors of eight states, six Republicans and two Democrats.  Tax Breaks  While President Obama and other Democrats have called for
increasing the federal  minimum wage , Republican governors at the
event said survival of the U.S. manufacturing industry hinged on
keeping labor costs low. They also suggested eliminating
regulations, speeding up the permitting process and offering
special tax breaks and incentives as ways of encouraging
companies to stay in or relocate to the U.S.  “Today, if we would somehow decide that we were going to
go up on minimum wage, all of this momentum would go away,”
Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant, a Republican, said in an
interview. “It would just cease. It would be a bucket of cold
water thrown upon the energy and excitement that’s going on here
now,” said Bryant.  South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley criticized unions for
pressuring employers to increase wages.  “I wear heels, and it’s not for a fashion statement --
it’s because we kick,” said Haley. “And we kicked those unions
hard, and they will not set foot in the state of South
Carolina.”  Compensation Costs  West Virginia  Governor Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, said
his state is also looking to lower the cost of doing business,
including reducing employers’ costs for worker’s compensation by
60 percent.  “It’s been over 18 years since we’ve had a general tax
increase in the state of West Virginia,” he said. “Actually,
we continue to lower our taxes, which obviously helps
businesses.”  In  Washington , Wal-Mart is considering canceling plans to
build new stores after the city council passed a bill that would
require the company to pay its workers at least $12.50 an hour.  Shares in the retailer fell less than 1 percent to $73.46
at the close in New York. The  shares  have gained 7.7 percent
this year, compared with a 16 percent increase for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee,  Florida  at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  