-- What’s Obamacare Got to Do With It?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-22T19:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/what-s-obamacare-got-to-do-with-it-.html
It’s not entirely clear why  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is blaming the Affordable Care Act for its
decision to drop 15,000 of its workers’ spouses from the
company’s health-insurance plan. What’s clear is that it’s not a
terrible thing: It’s simply a shift of health-care costs from
UPS to the spouses’ employers who already offer health
insurance.  In  a memo  to its employees, UPS cited the law as a
contributing factor in its decision. “This change is consistent
with the way many large employers are responding to the costs
associated with the health-care reform legislation,” it read.
As if to prove the point, another large employer, the  University
of Virginia   also announced  this week that it wouldn’t provide
coverage to spouses of employees if their employers also offered
insurance.  It’s hard to say, however, which aspects of President
 Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care-reform law might be causing
expenses to rise so much. In the case of UPS, because it is so
large, with  399,000 employees  at the end of last year, it is
exempt from the law’s requirements that employer health
insurance cover specific medical services, such as maternity
care. And because UPS funds its own health insurance, it is not
subject to other costs included in the law. Perhaps the new
limits on employees’ out-of-pocket expenses -- $6,350 a year for
an individual and $12,700 for a family -- are driving up UPS’s
costs, because when employees pay less, employers have to pay
more.  UPS also says its new policy is needed because of the
“rising cost of health care in general.” Yet this cost is
rising far more slowly than it was before the Affordable Care
Act was passed. Annual premiums for employer-sponsored family
health coverage are up  only 4 percent  this year, according to
the  Kaiser Family Foundation . Over the past decade, they have
generally been rising about three times faster. And the slowdown
appears to be occurring  in part  in response to the new law.  It’s possible, of course, that UPS is using the health-care
law as a smokescreen for cutting costs it wanted to cut anyway.
And at one point its internal memo takes an abnormal interest in
other people’s business. “Since the Affordable Care Act
requires employers to provide affordable coverage,” it reads,
“we believe your spouse should be covered by their own
employer.”  Duly noted, UPS. Also to note: The very law the company
cites is helping to save people money on health care. It would
be a lot harder for UPS to cut coverage to employees’ spouses if
those spouses were to be left without coverage at all. The
Affordable Care Act gives people more options for health
insurance -- either from employers or on the individual market
that the new state exchanges will provide.  No one can blame companies for wanting to shift the cost of
covering some workers’ spouses to those spouses’ employers. But
such a shift needn’t lead to any loss of coverage -- a happy
outcome that Obamacare makes more likely, not less.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 