-- Tyco Challenges $3 Billion IRS Adjustments for Loans: Taxes
-- B y   D o l o r e s   W .   G r e g o r y
-- 2013-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-22/tyco-challenges-3-billion-irs-adjustments-for-loans-taxes.html
Seven former subsidiaries of
 Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  are challenging almost $3 billion in
income adjustments related to intercompany financing of
acquisitions and restructurings in the late 1990s.  Taxes and penalties due exceed $1 billion on the deals,
which the company structured as loans and the  Internal Revenue
Service  says aren’t “bona fide debt” for federal income tax
purposes, Bloomberg BNA reported.  After the recession and a scandal that sent two top
executives to prison, Tyco spun off its medical products and
electronics companies in 2007 into two separate, publicly traded
companies. In 2012, the company reorganized again. Its security
firms now operated as  ADT Corp. (ADT)  and businesses that sell valves
and controls are part of Pentair Inc.  In 14 separate petitions last month, the companies say the
IRS acted arbitrarily in disregarding interest deductions and in
re-characterizing interest payments as dividends for a series of
intercompany loans. They argued that the terms of the loans were
“consistent with what would ordinarily have been available to
the debtor from a third-party lender.”  The IRS “erroneously disregards the fact that the loans
here involved exhibited the formalities of third-party debt,”
including loan agreements with stated  interest rates , specified
repayment schedules and maturity dates, the companies said.  After re-characterizing interest on the loans, the IRS
imposed withholding taxes on several of the companies. Those
amounts also are in dispute.  Loans Redone  Six petitions were filed by Tyco Electronics Corp., a
Pennsylvania company that is successor in interest to the former
Tyco International (PA) Inc., which had been organized to
acquire an electronics manufacturer in 1999. Several petitions
relate to that deal, the largest involving a $237 million
deficiency for tax year 2000 after a loan re-characterization.  Three were filed by Tyco Electronics Corporate Holdings
Inc. The company is challenging deficiencies of $287 million and
$290 million for the 1999 and 2000 tax years and withholding tax
deficiencies of $39.5 million and $24.6 million for the same
periods. It is also challenging another $3 million deficiency
connected to a re-characterization.  The remaining petitions were filed by five corporations
that had been spun off in reorganizations in 2007 and 2012.  $6.6 Billion  In a July filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Tyco said it had received notices asserting that
“several of its former U.S. subsidiaries owe additional taxes of
$883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of
the 1997 through 2000 tax years of the Company and its
subsidiaries as they existed at that time.”  The notices assert that “substantially all” of Tyco’s
intercompany debt originated between 1997 and 2000 shouldn’t be
treated as debt. Consequently, the IRS disallowed interest and
related deductions totaling $2.86 billion, the company said.  If the IRS prevails, Tyco said, “it would have an adverse
impact on interest deductions related to the same intercompany
debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6
billion, which we expect the IRS to also disallow.”  The parent is now a Swiss firm created from the July 1997
acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a former Massachusetts
corporation, by ADT Ltd., a Bermuda public company. Following
the merger, ADT changed its name to Tyco International Ltd.  Tax-Sharing Deals  According to the 8-K, Tyco operates under tax-sharing
agreements negotiated with  Covidien (COV)  and  TE Connectivity (TEL)  in 2007
and with ADT and Pentair in 2012.  Several of the petitions concern the acquisition of AMP
Inc. by Tyco International (PA) in 1999, a deal that involved a
mixture of equity and debt financing and is an example of the
kind of complex intercompany financing employed by Tyco.  Tyco Electronics, now a subsidiary of TE Connectivity Ltd.,
is listed as successor in interest to TIPA, AMP Inc. and three
other former Tyco subsidiaries. Tyco Electronics is challenging
re-characterization of debt related to TIPA’s acquisition of AMP
Inc. and Raychem Corp. in 1999.  TIPA was specifically organized to acquire AMP. After a
failed hostile takeover of AMP by Allied Signal, Tyco bought the
company in a stock-for-stock exchange. It incorporated TIPA in
 Pennsylvania  as a subsidiary of Tyco International in 1998.  TIPA bought Tyco International shares in 1999, with a total
value of $11.8 billion. Tyco International sold shares valued at
$5 billion to TIPA in exchange for $5 billion in notes and
contributed the remaining $6.8 billion in stock for the merger.  For the note, TIPA and Tyco International had a master loan
agreement and seven promissory notes for between $150 million
and $1.5 billion, interest rates of between 6.18 percent and
8.33 percent, and terms of between three and 20 years. Tyco
International transferred the loans to S.a.r.l., its primary
intercompany lender.  The transfer had no U.S. tax effect and the loans “had the
characteristics of bona fide indebtedness,” including the
expectation that the loans would be repaid from operating cash
flows, the petition says.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  